FILE:PSA/PSA-8K-20070604165520.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
1) Reorganization as a Maryland real estate investment trust
On June 1, 2007, we completed our previously announced reorganization from a California corporation to a Maryland real estate investment trust (the "Trust") following receipt of shareholder approval at our 2007 annual meeting. As the successor entity, the Trust hereby formally adopts the registration statements and all other filings of our predecessor, Public Storage, Inc., filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") prior to the reorganization.
The following organizational documents related to the Trust are attached as exhibits to this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
 
 
2) Description of Securities
The following description of securities updates and supersedes the description contained in our Registration Statement on Form 8-A, filed with the SEC, effective June 30, 1981, including any amendments or reports filed prior to the date hereof to update such description. The following description is a summary. It does not purport to be complete or to give a complete description of applicable statutory or common law, and is subject in all respects to applicable provisions of law, and to the Articles of Amendment and Restatement of Declaration of Trust of the Trust (the "Declaration of Trust") and the Bylaws of the Trust (the "Bylaws"), which are filed as exhibits to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Common Shares of Beneficial Interest
We are authorized to issue up to 650,000,000 common shares of beneficial interest, par value $0.10 per share. Holders of our common shares will be entitled to receive dividends when, as and if declared by our board of trustees, out of funds legally available for distribution. If we fail to pay dividends on our outstanding preferred shares of beneficial interest, generally we may not pay dividends on or repurchase our common shares. If we were to liquidate, dissolve or wind up our affairs, holders of common shares will be entitled to share equally and ratably in any assets available for distribution to them, after payment or provision for payment of our debts and other liabilities and the preferential amounts owing with respect to any of our outstanding preferred shares. Holders of common shares have no preemptive rights, which means they have no right to acquire any additional common shares that we may issue at a later date.
The holders of our common shares are entitled to cast one vote for each share on all matters presented to our holders for a vote. The Declaration of Trust permits cumulative voting for the election of trustees. Our outstanding common shares are fully paid and nonassessable.
The rights, preferences and privileges of holders of our common shares are subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of shares of any series of our preferred shares or equity shares of beneficial interest which were outstanding upon completion of the reorganization or which we may designate and issue in the future. The preferred shares and equity shares are described below.
Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest
We are authorized to issue up to 100,000,000 preferred shares of beneficial interest, par value $0.01 per share ("Preferred Shares"). The Declaration of Trust provides that Preferred Shares may be issued from time to time in one or more series and gives our board of trustees broad authority to fix the dividend and distribution rights, conversion and voting rights, if any, redemption provisions and liquidation preferences of each series of Preferred
Shares. Holders of Preferred Shares have no preemptive rights. The outstanding Preferred Shares are fully paid and nonassessable.
Upon completion of the reorganization, we had outstanding 17 series of Preferred Shares and had reserved for issuance, upon conversion of preferred units in one of our operating partnerships, two additional series. Each series (1) has a stated value of $25.00 per share or depositary share as applicable, (2) provides for cumulative quarterly distributions calculated as a percentage of the stated value (ranging from 6.125% to 7.500% per year) in preference to the holders of common shares and any other capital stock ranking junior to such Preferred Shares as to payment of dividends, and (3) is subject to redemption after a specified date, in whole or in part, at our option at a cash redemption price of $25.00 per share or depositary share as applicable, plus accrued and unpaid distributions.
The following table shows the series of Preferred Shares that we issued upon completion of the reorganization, including the distribution rate and date upon which such shares first will be subject to redemption at our option:
 
 The Preferred Shares of each series rank with respect to distribution rights and rights upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of our affairs:
Ranking.
(1) senior to the common shares, any additional class of common shares, existing and future equity shares and any future series of preferred shares ranking junior to the Preferred Shares; and
(2) on a parity with all other Preferred Shares issued or reserved for issuance upon completion of the reorganization.
 Holders of Preferred Shares of a particular series are entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by our board of trustees, out of our assets legally available for payment, cash distributions at the respective rates and on the respective dates as set forth in the articles supplementary relating to such series. Each distribution will be payable to holders of record as they appear on our share transfer books on the record dates fixed by our board of trustees.
Distributions.
Distributions on the outstanding Preferred Shares are cumulative from and after the date of issuance or most recent payment date of dividends on the analogous series of Public Storage, Inc. preferred stock. No distributions (other than in common shares or other shares of beneficial interest ranking junior to the Preferred Shares as to distributions and upon liquidation) will be declared or paid or set aside for payment (nor will any other distribution be declared or made upon our common shares, or any of our other shares of beneficial interest ranking junior to or on a parity with the Preferred Shares of the series as to distributions or upon liquidation), nor will any common shares or any other of our shares of beneficial interest ranking junior to or on a parity with the Preferred Shares of the series as to distributions or upon liquidation be redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired for any consideration (or any moneys be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such shares) by us (except by conversion into or exchange for other shares of beneficial interest ranking junior to the Preferred Shares of the series as to distributions and upon liquidation) unless full cumulative distributions on the Preferred Shares of the series have been or contemporaneously are declared and paid or declared and a sum set apart for payment for all past distribution periods and the then current distribution period.
Any distribution made on shares of a series of cumulative Preferred Shares will first be credited against the earliest accrued but unpaid distribution due with respect to shares of the series which remains payable.
 The Preferred Shares are subject to redemption at our option, in whole or in part, beginning on the respective dates shown on the table above. The Preferred Shares also are subject to redemption at our option, in whole or in part, if the board of trustees determines in good faith that such redemption is necessary to maintain our status as a real estate investment trust ("REIT") for tax purposes. The redemption price may be payable in cash, securities or other property, as specified in the articles supplementary relating to each outstanding series of Preferred Shares.
Redemption.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Preferred Shares of any series will be redeemed, and we will not purchase or otherwise acquire directly or indirectly any Preferred Shares of that series (except by conversion into or exchange for shares of beneficial interest ranking junior to the Preferred Shares of that series as to distributions and upon liquidation) unless all outstanding Preferred Shares of the series in question are simultaneously redeemed and, in each case full cumulative distributions on the Preferred Shares of that series will have been or contemporaneously are declared and paid or declared and a sum sufficient for payment for all past distribution periods and the then current distribution period is set apart.
If fewer than all of the outstanding Preferred Shares of any series are to be redeemed, the number of shares to be redeemed will be determined by us, and these shares must be redeemed pro rata from the holders of record of these shares in proportion to the number of these shares held by such holders (with adjustments to avoid redemption of fractional shares) or any other equitable method determined by us.
Notice of redemption will be mailed at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the redemption date to each holder of record of Preferred Shares of any series to be redeemed at the address shown on our share transfer books. Each notice will state:
(1) the redemption date;
(2) the number of shares and series of the Preferred Shares to be redeemed;
(3) the redemption price;
(4) the place or places where certificates for such Preferred Shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and
(5) that distributions on the Preferred Shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on the redemption date.
If fewer than all the Preferred Shares of any series are to be redeemed, the notice mailed to each holder will also specify the number of Preferred Shares to be redeemed from the holder and, upon redemption, a new certificate will be issued representing the unredeemed shares without cost to the holder. To facilitate the redemption of Preferred Shares, our board of trustees may fix a record date for the determination of Preferred Shares to be redeemed. The record date may not be less than 30 or more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption.
If notice has been given as provided above, unless we default in providing funds for the payment of the redemption price on that date, then from and after the redemption date all distributions on the Preferred Shares called for redemption will cease. From and after the redemption date, unless we default, all rights of the holders of our Preferred Shares of such series, except the right to receive the redemption price (but without interest), will cease.
Subject to applicable law and the limitation on purchases when distributions on Preferred Shares are in arrears, we may, at any time and from time to time, purchase any Preferred Shares in the open market, by tender or by private agreement.
 If we voluntarily or involuntarily liquidate, dissolve or wind-up our affairs, then, before we make any distribution or payment to the holders of any common shares or any other class or series of shares of beneficial interest ranking junior to the Preferred Shares in the distribution of assets upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding up, the holders of each series of Preferred Shares will be entitled to receive out of our assets legally available for distribution to shareholders liquidating distributions in the amount of the liquidation preference per share (set forth in the applicable articles supplementary relating to such series), plus an amount equal to all accrued and unpaid distributions. After payment of the full amount of the liquidating distributions to which they are entitled, the holders of Preferred Shares will have no right or claim to any of our remaining assets. In the event that, upon the voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up, our legally available assets are insufficient to pay the amount of the liquidating distributions on all outstanding Preferred Shares of any series and the corresponding amounts payable on all shares of other classes or series of shares of beneficial interest ranking on a parity with the Preferred Shares in the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, then the holders of the Preferred Shares and all other such classes or series of shares of beneficial interest will share ratably in any distribution of assets in proportion to the full liquidating distributions to which they would otherwise be respectively entitled.
Liquidation Preference.
If liquidating distributions have been made in full to all holders of Preferred Shares, our remaining assets will be distributed among the holders of any other classes or series of shares of beneficial interest ranking junior to the Preferred Shares upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, according to their respective rights and preferences and in each case according to their respective number of shares. For these purposes, our consolidation or merger with or into any other corporation, or the sale, lease, transfer or conveyance of all or substantially all of our property or business, will not be deemed to constitute a liquidation, dissolution or winding up.
 Holders of the Preferred Shares have no voting rights, except as set forth below or as otherwise expressly required by law or as indicated in the applicable articles supplementary.
Voting Rights.
If six quarterly distributions payable on any series of Preferred Shares are in default (whether or not declared or consecutive), the holders of all the series of Preferred Shares, voting as a single class with all other series of Preferred Shares upon which similar voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable, will be entitled to elect two additional trustees until all distributions in default have been paid or declared and set apart for payment.
The right to vote separately to elect trustees will, when vested, be subject, always, to the same provisions for vesting of the right to elect trustees separately in the case of future distribution defaults. At any time when the right to elect trustees separately has vested, we may, and upon the written request of the holders of record of not less than 20% of our total number of Preferred Shares then outstanding will, call a special meeting of shareholders for the election of trustees. In the case of the written request, a special meeting will be held within 90 days after the delivery of the request and, in either case, at the place and upon the notice provided by law and in the bylaws. However, we will not be required to call a special meeting if the request is received less than 120 days before the date fixed for the next annual meeting of shareholders, and the holders of all classes of outstanding Preferred Shares are offered the opportunity to elect the trustees (or fill any vacancy) at the annual meeting of shareholders. Trustees so elected will serve until the next annual meeting of shareholders or until their respective successors are elected and qualify. If, before the end of the term of any trustee so elected, a vacancy in the office of the trustee occurs, during the
continuance of a default by reason of death, resignation, or disability, the vacancy will be filled for the unexpired term of the former trustee by the appointment of a new trustee by the remaining trustee or trustees so elected.
The affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least 66
2/3
% of the outstanding Preferred Shares of each series will be required to amend or repeal any provision of, or add any provision to, our Declaration of Trust, including the articles supplementary, if this action would adversely alter or change the rights, preferences or privileges of the series of Preferred Shares.
Our board of trustees will not, without the consent of holders of at least 66
2/3
% of the outstanding Preferred Shares, voting as a single class, authorize another class of shares of beneficial interest senior to the Preferred Shares. No consent or approval of the holders of any series of Preferred Shares will be required for the issuance from authorized but unissued Preferred Shares of other Preferred Shares of any series ranking on a parity with or junior to the Preferred Shares in question, or senior to a series of Preferred Shares expressly made junior to that series of Preferred Shares as to payment of distributions and distribution of assets, including other Preferred Shares of the same series.
These voting provisions will not apply if, at or prior to the time when the act with respect to which a vote would otherwise be required is effected, all outstanding Preferred Shares of the series had been redeemed or called for redemption upon proper notice and sufficient funds had been deposited in trust to effect the redemption.
Equity Shares
We are authorized to issue up to 100,000,000 equity shares of beneficial interest, par value $.01 per share. The Declaration of Trust provides that the equity shares may be issued from time to time in one or more series and gives the board of trustees broad authority to fix the distribution, conversion and voting rights, redemption provisions and liquidation rights of each series of equity shares. Holders of equity shares have no preemptive rights. The outstanding equity shares are fully paid and nonassessable.
Upon completion of the reorganization, we have outstanding two series of equity shares, consisting of 8,740.766 equity shares, series A, and 4,289,544 equity shares, series AAA, each of which rank on a parity with our common shares. The equity shares, series A are represented by 8,740,766 depositary shares (each depositary share representing 1/1000 of an equity share, series A). Our equity shares, series A (1) provide for cash distributions at the rate of five times the distributions on the common share per depositary share, but not more than $2.45 per depositary share per year, (2) may be redeemed on or after March 31, 2010 at $24.50 per depositary share, (3) on liquidation receives the same per share amount allocated in respect of a common share, but not to exceed $24.50 per depositary share, (4) are convertible into common shares at the rate of one depositary share into .956 common shares if we fail to preserve our status as a REIT and (5) vote as a single class with the common shares at the rate of one-tenth of a vote per depositary share.
Our equity shares, series AAA (1) provide for cash distributions at the rate of five times the distributions on the common shares, provided that such distributions shall be neither more than $.539101563 per share per quarter nor less than the lesser of $2.15640625 per share per year or five times the dividends per common share per year, (2) are not redeemable except in certain limited circumstances (including if the Corporation determines a redemption is necessary to maintain the Corporation's status as a REIT), (3) receive on liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation 120% of the amount distributed per common share, (4) are not convertible into common shares except in certain limited circumstances and (5) have no voting rights.
Depositary Shares
Certain of our outstanding Preferred Shares and equity shares are represented by depositary shares, each of which represents a fractional interest in a Preferred Share or Equity Share of a specified series as described in the applicable articles supplementary. The Preferred Shares or Equity Shares represented by the depositary shares are deposited with Computershare Trust Company, N.A., or other depositary, under a deposit agreement, among the depositary, the holders of the depositary receipts and us. Depositary receipts are certificates evidencing depositary shares. The depositary serves as the transfer agent, registrar and dividend disbursing agent for the depositary shares. Holders of depositary receipts agree to be bound by the deposit agreement, which requires holders to take certain actions such as filing proof of residence and paying certain charges.
The depositary will distribute all cash or other cash distributions received in respect of the series of Preferred Shares or Equity Shares represented by the depositary shares to the record holders of depositary receipts in proportion to the number of depositary shares owned by those holders on the relevant record date, which will be the same date as the record date fixed by us for the applicable series of Preferred Shares or Equity Shares. The depositary, however, will distribute only an amount as can be distributed without attributing to any depositary share a fraction of one cent with any undistributed balance added to and treated as part of the next sum received by the depositary for distribution to record holders of depositary receipts then outstanding.
Distributions.
In the event of a distribution other than in cash, the depositary will distribute property received by it to the record holders of depositary receipts that are entitled to receive the distribution, in proportion, as nearly as may be practicable, to the number of depositary shares owned by those holders on the relevant record date, unless the depositary determines (after consultation with us) that it is not feasible to make the distribution. If this occurs, the depositary may (with our approval) sell the property and distribute the net proceeds from that sale to those holders or adopt another method of distribution as it deems equitable and appropriate.
. If we liquidate, dissolve or wind up our affairs, whether voluntarily or involuntarily, the holders of each depositary share will be entitled to the fraction of the liquidation amount accorded each share of the applicable series of Preferred Shares or Equity Shares, as set forth in the applicable articles supplementary.
Liquidation Rights
. For all cases where series of Preferred Shares or Equity Shares represented by that series of depositary shares is redeemable, those depositary shares will be redeemed from the proceeds received by the depositary resulting from the redemption, in whole or in part, of that series of Preferred Shares or Equity Shares held by the depositary. Whenever we redeem any Preferred Shares or Equity Shares held by the depositary, the depositary will redeem as of the same redemption date the number of depositary shares representing the Preferred Shares or Equity Shares so redeemed. The depositary will mail the notice of redemption promptly upon receipt of such notice from us and not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for redemption of the Preferred Shares or Equity Shares and the depositary shares to the record holders of the depositary receipts.
Redemption
. Promptly upon receipt of notice of any meeting at which the holders of the series of Preferred Shares or Equity Shares represented by the applicable series of depositary shares are entitled to vote, the depositary will mail the information contained in the notice of meeting to the record holders of the depositary receipts as of the record date for that meeting. Each record holder of depositary receipts will be entitled to instruct the depositary as to the exercise of the voting rights pertaining to the number of Preferred Shares or Equity Shares represented by that record holder's depositary shares. The depositary will then try, as far as practicable, to vote the Preferred Shares or Equity Shares represented by such depositary shares in accordance with those instructions, and we will agree to take all action which may be deemed necessary by the depositary in order to enable the depositary to do so. The depositary will not vote any of the Preferred Shares or Equity Shares to the extent that it does not receive specific instructions from the holders of depositary receipts.
Voting
. Upon surrender of depositary receipts at the principal office of the depositary, upon payment of any unpaid amount due the depositary, and subject to the terms of the deposit agreement, the holder of the depositary shares evidenced by the depositary receipts is entitled to delivery of the number of whole Preferred Shares or Equity Shares and all money and other property, if any, represented by those depositary shares. Partial Preferred Shares or Equity Shares will not be issued. If the depositary receipts delivered by the holder evidence a number of depositary shares in excess of the number of depositary shares representing the number of whole Preferred Shares or Equity Shares to be withdrawn, the depositary will deliver to that holder at the same time a new depositary receipt evidencing the excess number of depositary shares. Holders of withdrawn preferred shares or equity shares will not be entitled to deposit those shares under the deposit agreement or to receive depositary receipts evidencing depositary shares.
Withdrawal of Preferred Shares or Equity Shares
. The form of depositary receipt evidencing the depositary shares of any series and any provision of the deposit agreement may at any time be amended by agreement between the depositary and us. However, any amendment which materially and adversely alters the rights of the holders (other than any change in fees) of depositary shares of any series will not be effective unless that amendment has been approved by the holders of at least a majority of the depositary shares of that series then outstanding. No such amendment may impair the right, subject to the terms of the deposit agreement, of any owner of any depositary shares to surrender the depositary receipt evidencing those depositary shares with instructions to the depositary to
Amendment and Termination of Deposit Agreement
deliver to the holder the Preferred Shares or Equity Shares and all money and other property, if any, represented by the depositary receipt, except in order to comply with mandatory provisions of applicable law. The deposit agreement may be terminated by the depositary or by us only if:
(1) all outstanding depositary shares have been redeemed or
(2) there has been a final distribution in respect of the Preferred Shares or Equity Shares in connection with our liquidation, dissolution or winding up and the distribution has been made to all the holders of depositary shares.
We will pay all transfer and other taxes and governmental charges arising solely from the existence of the depositary arrangements. We will pay charges of the depositary in connection with the initial deposit of the Preferred Shares or Equity Shares and the initial issuance of the depositary shares, and redemption of the Preferred Shares or Equity Shares and all withdrawals of Preferred Shares or Equity Shares by owners of depositary shares. Holders of depositary receipts will pay transfer, income and other taxes and governmental charges and those other charges as are provided in the deposit agreement to be for their accounts. In some circumstances, the depositary may refuse to transfer depositary shares, may withhold dividends and distributions and sell the depositary shares evidenced by the depositary receipt if the charges are not paid.
Charges of Depositary.
The depositary will forward to the holders of depositary receipts all reports and communications from us which are delivered to the depositary and which we are required to furnish to the holders of the Preferred Shares or Equity Shares. In addition, the depositary will make available for inspection by holders of depositary receipts at the principal office of the depositary, and at other places as it may from time to time deem advisable, any reports and communications received from us which are received by the depositary as the holder of Preferred Shares or Equity Shares.
Miscellaneous.
Neither the depositary nor we assume any obligation or liability under the deposit agreement to holders of depositary receipts other than for its or our negligence or willful misconduct. Neither the depositary nor we will be liable if the depositary is prevented or delayed by law or any circumstance beyond its control in performing its obligations under the deposit agreement. Our obligations and those of the depositary under the deposit agreement will be limited to performance in good faith of the depositary's duties under the deposit agreement. Neither of them will be obligated to prosecute or defend any legal proceeding in respect of any depositary shares or Preferred Shares or Equity Shares unless satisfactory indemnity is furnished. We and the depositary may rely on written advice of counsel or accountants, on information provided by holders of depositary receipts or other persons believed in good faith to be competent to give the information and on documents believed to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper party or parties.
The depositary may resign at any time by delivering to us notice of its election to do so, and we may at any time remove the depositary. Any resignation or removal will take effect upon the appointment of a successor depositary and its acceptance of the appointment. The successor depositary must be appointed within 60 days after delivery of the notice for resignation or removal and must be a bank or trust company having its principal office in the United States of America and having a combined capital and surplus of at least $150,000,000.
Resignation and Removal of Depositary.
Power to Reclassify Shares and Issue Additional Shares
The Declaration of Trust authorizes the board of trustees to classify any unissued Preferred Shares or Equity Shares and to reclassify any previously classified but unissued common shares, Preferred Shares and Equity Shares of any series from time to time in one or more series, as authorized by the board of trustees. Prior to issuance of any classified or reclassified shares of a particular class or series, the board of trustees is required by the Maryland REIT law and the Declaration of Trust to set for each such class or series, subject to the provisions of the Declaration of Trust regarding the restrictions on transfer of shares of beneficial interest, the terms, preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends or other distributions, qualifications and terms or conditions of redemption for each such class or series. As a result, the board of trustees could authorize the issuance of Preferred Shares or Equity Shares that have priority over the common shares with respect to dividends and rights upon liquidation and with other terms and conditions that could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for holders of common shares or otherwise might be in their best interest.
Holders of our shares will not have preemptive rights, which means they will have no right to acquire any additional shares that we may issue at a subsequent date.
Restrictions on Ownership and Transfer
To qualify as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), our shares must be beneficially owned by 100 or more persons during at least 335 days of a taxable year of 12 months or during a proportionate part of a shorter taxable year. Also, not more than 50% of the value of our outstanding shares (after taking into account options to acquire shares) may be owned, directly, indirectly or through attribution, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Code to include certain entities) during the last half of a taxable year.
To maintain our qualification as a REIT, the Declaration of Trust provides that:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The excepted holder limit has been established in light of the fact that the Hughes family and certain related trusts and entities, upon completion of the reorganization, own approximately 27% of our common shares, and have the right to acquire additional shares up to 35.66% of our outstanding common shares. The excepted holder limit allows
excepted holders, defined in the Declaration of Trust to include certain members of the Hughes family, certain trusts established for the benefit of members of the Hughes family and certain related entities, to own up to 47.66% of the outstanding shares of any class or series of common shares, so long as no one individual excepted holder would own in excess of 35.66% of the outstanding shares of any such class or series. We believe that the excepted holder limit will not jeopardize our status as a REIT because no five excepted holders can own more than 47.66% of any class or series of our outstanding common shares and, thus, we will be in compliance with the REIT qualification requirement prohibiting five or fewer individuals from owning more than 50% of the value of our outstanding shares.
The Declaration of Trust defines a "designated investment entity" as:
1. an entity that is a pension trust that qualifies for look-through treatment under Section 856(h)(3) of the Code;
2. an entity that qualifies as a regulated investment company under Section 851 of the Code; or
3. an entity (referred to in the Declaration of Trust as a "qualified investment manager") that (i) for compensation engages in the business of advising others as to the value of securities or as to the advisability of investing in, purchasing or selling securities; (ii) purchases securities in the ordinary course of its business and not with the purpose or effect of changing or influencing control of the Trust, nor in connection with or as a participant in any transaction having such purpose or effect, including any transaction subject to Rule 13d-3(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and (iii) has or shares voting power and investment power under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended;
so long as each beneficial owner of such entity, or in the case of a qualified investment manager holding shares solely for the benefit of its customer account holders, the individual account holders of the accounts managed by such entity, would satisfy the 3% common share or 9.9% preferred share or equity share ownership limit, as applicable, if such beneficial owner or account holder owned directly its proportionate share of the shares held by the entity.
Under the Declaration of Trust, the board of trustees may, in its sole and absolute discretion, exempt a shareholder that is not an individual from the 3% ownership limit for common shares, the 9.9% ownership limit for Preferred and Equity Shares, or the ownership limit for common shares applicable to designated investment entities, if such shareholder provides information and makes representations to the board of trustees that are satisfactory to the board of trustees, in its sole and absolute discretion, to establish that such person's ownership in excess of the applicable ownership limit would not jeopardize our qualification as a REIT. Prior to the reorganization, the Corporation's board of directors had granted waivers to certain persons, in accordance with the Corporation's existing charter and bylaws, to own shares in excess of the ownership limits set forth therein. These waivers remain in effect following the reorganization.
Any person who acquires or attempts or intends to acquire actual/or beneficial or constructive ownership of our shares that will or may violate any of the foregoing restrictions on transferability and ownership will be required to give notice immediately to us and provide us with such other information as the board of trustees may request in order to determine the effect of such transfer on our status as a REIT. If any transfer of shares or any other event would otherwise result in any person violating the ownership limits described above, then the Declaration of Trust provides that (a) the transfer will be void and of no force or effect with respect to the prohibited transferee with respect to that number of shares that exceeds the ownership limits and (b) the prohibited transferee would not acquire any right or interest in the shares. The foregoing restrictions on transferability and ownership will not apply if our board of trustees determines that it is no longer in our best interests to attempt to qualify, or to continue to qualify, as a REIT.
All certificates representing our shares will bear a legend referring to the restrictions described above.
Every owner of more than 5% (or such lower percentage as required by the Code or the regulations promulgated thereunder) of all classes or series of our shares, including common shares, will be required to give written notice to us within 30 days after the end of each taxable year stating the name and address of such owner, the number of shares of each class and series of shares that the owner beneficially owns and a description of the manner in which such shares are held. Each such owner shall provide to us such additional information as the board of trustees may request in order to determine the effect, if any, of such beneficial ownership on our status as a REIT
and to ensure compliance with the various ownership limitations. In addition, each shareholder shall upon demand be required to provide to the board of trustees such information as the board of trustees may request, in good faith, in order to determine our status as a REIT and to comply with the requirements of any taxing authority or governmental authority or to determine such compliance.
These ownership limitations could delay, deter or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for the common shares or might otherwise be in the best interest of our shareholders.
Certain Provisions of Maryland Law and the Declaration of Trust and Bylaws
The following description of certain provisions of Maryland law and of the Declaration of Trust and Bylaws is only a summary. For a complete description, we refer you to the applicable Maryland law and the Declaration of Trust and Bylaws.
Number of Trustees; Vacancies
The Declaration of Trust and Bylaws provide that the number of our trustees will be established by a vote of a majority of the members of our board of trustees. We currently have the same ten individuals serving as directors of the Corporation as trustees. The Bylaws provide that any vacancy, including a vacancy created by an increase in the number of trustees, may be filled only by a majority of the remaining trustees, even if the remaining trustees do not constitute a quorum. As is the case with the Corporation, pursuant to the Declaration of Trust, each of our trustees will be elected by its shareholders to serve until the next annual meeting and until their successors are duly elected and qualified. The Declaration of Trust permits cumulative voting for the election of trustees.
The Bylaws provide that at least a majority of the trustees will be "independent," with independence being defined in the manner established by the board of trustees and in a manner consistent with listing standards established by the New York Stock Exchange.
Removal of Trustees
The Declaration of Trust provides that a trustee may be removed only with cause and only upon the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast in the election of trustees. Absent removal of all of the trustees, this provision, when coupled with the provision in the Bylaws authorizing the board of trustees to fill vacant trusteeships, may preclude shareholders from removing incumbent trustees and filling the vacancies created by such removal with their own nominees.
Business Combinations
The Declaration of Trust exempts transactions with the Hughes family and their current and future affiliates from the provisions of the Maryland business combination statute described below. In addition, the board of trustees has approved a resolution that exempts transactions between us and any other "interested shareholder" from the provisions of the Maryland business combination statute described below but may opt to make these provisions applicable to transactions between us and any interested shareholder other than a member of the Hughes family in the future. Maryland law prohibits "business combinations" between us and an interested shareholder or an affiliate of an interested shareholder for five years after the most recent date on which the interested shareholder becomes an interested shareholder. These business combinations include a merger, consolidation, share exchange, or, in circumstances specified in the statute, an asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities. Maryland law defines an interested shareholder as:
 
 
A person is not an interested shareholder if the board of trustees approves in advance the transaction by which the person otherwise would have become an interested shareholder. However, in approving a transaction, the board of
trustees may provide that its approval is subject to compliance, at or after the time of approval, with any terms and conditions determined by the board of trustees.
After the five-year prohibition, any business combination between us and an interested shareholder generally must be recommended by our board of trustees and approved by the affirmative vote of at least:
 
 
These super-majority vote requirements do not apply if our common shareholders receive a minimum price, as described under Maryland law, for their shares in the form of cash or other consideration in the same form as previously paid by the interested shareholder for its shares.
The statute permits various exemptions from its provisions, including business combinations that are approved by our board of trustees before the time that the interested shareholder becomes an interested shareholder.
Control Share Acquisitions
The Declaration of Trust contains a provision stating that the control shares provisions of Maryland law will not apply to any control share acquisition by any excepted holder, including certain members of the Hughes family, certain trusts established for the benefit of members of the Hughes family and certain related entities and current and future affiliates of an excepted holder. In addition, the Bylaws contain a provision exempting any and all acquisitions of our common shares from the control shares provisions of Maryland law. Except in the case of the excepted holders described in the Declaration of Trust, the board of trustees may opt to make these provisions applicable to us at any time by amending or repealing this bylaw provision in the future, and may do so on a retroactive basis. Maryland law provides that "control shares" of a Maryland REIT acquired in a "control share acquisition" have no voting rights unless approved by a vote of two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter. Shares owned by the acquiror or by our officers or trustees who are our employees are excluded from the shares entitled to vote on the matter. "Control shares" are voting shares that, if aggregated with all other shares previously acquired by the acquiring person, or in respect of which the acquiring person is able to exercise or direct the exercise of voting power (except solely by virtue of a revocable proxy), would entitle the acquiring person to exercise or direct the exercise of the voting power in electing trustees within one of the following ranges of voting power:
 
 
 
A "control share acquisition" means the acquisition of control shares, subject to certain exceptions.
A person who has made or proposes to make a control share acquisition may compel the board of trustees to call a special meeting of shareholders to be held within 50 days of demand to consider the voting rights of the shares. The right to compel the calling of a special meeting is subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, including an undertaking to pay the expenses of the special meeting. If no request for a special meeting is made, we may present the question at any shareholders' meeting.
If voting rights are not approved at the shareholders' meeting or if the acquiring person does not deliver the statement required by Maryland law, then, subject to certain conditions and limitations, we may redeem any or all of the control shares, except those for which voting rights have previously been approved, for fair value. Fair value is determined without regard to the absence of voting rights for the control shares and as of the date of the last control share acquisition or of any meeting of shareholders at which the voting rights of the shares were considered and not approved. If voting rights for control shares are approved at a shareholders' meeting, the acquiror may then vote a majority of the shares entitled to vote, and all other shareholders may exercise appraisal rights. The fair value of the shares for purposes of these appraisal rights may not be less than the highest price per share paid by the acquiror in the control share acquisition. The control share acquisition statute does not apply to shares acquired in a merger,
consolidation or share exchange if we are a party to the transaction, nor does it apply to acquisitions approved by or exempted by the Declaration of Trust or Bylaws.
Merger, Amendment of Declaration of Trust
Under Maryland REIT law, a Maryland REIT generally cannot dissolve, amend its declaration of trust or merge with another entity unless recommended by the trustees and approved by the affirmative vote of shareholders holding at least two-thirds of the shares entitled to vote on the matter unless a lesser percentage, but not less than a majority of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, is set forth in the REIT's declaration of trust. In the Declaration of Trust, we have set the vote required to approve most amendments of the Declaration of Trust and mergers required to be submitted to shareholders to a majority of all votes entitled to be cast on the matter. Amendments to provisions of the Declaration of Trust exempting the excepted holders from the business combination and control share acquisition provisions of Maryland law will require, in addition to adoption of a resolution by the board of trustees, the affirmative vote of the holders of 80% of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter. In addition, under the Maryland REIT law and the Declaration of Trust, our trustees will be permitted, without any action by our shareholders, to amend the Declaration of Trust from time to time to qualify as a REIT under the Code or the Maryland REIT law.
Limitation of Liability and Indemnification
The Declaration of Trust limits the liability of our trustees and officers for money damages, except for liability resulting from:
 
 
The Declaration of Trust requires us, to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law, to pay or reimburse reasonable expenses to, any of our present or former trustees or officers or any individual who, while a trustee or officer and at our request, serves or has served another entity, employee benefit plan or any other enterprise as a trustee, director, officer, partner or otherwise.
Consistent with Maryland law, we are required to indemnify our present and former trustees and officers against liabilities and reasonable expenses actually incurred by them in any proceeding unless:
 
 
 
However, Maryland law prohibits us from indemnifying our present and former trustees and officers for an adverse judgment in a derivative action or if the trustee or officer was adjudged to be liable for an improper personal benefit. The Bylaws and Maryland law require us, as a condition to advancing expenses in certain circumstances, to obtain:
 
 
Term and Termination
The Declaration of Trust provides for us to have a perpetual existence. Pursuant to the Declaration of Trust, and subject to the provisions of any of our classes or series of shares of beneficial interest then outstanding and the approval by a majority of the entire board of trustees, our shareholders, at any meeting thereof, by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, may approve a plan of liquidation and dissolution.
Possible Anti-Takeover Effect of Certain Provisions of Maryland Law and of the Declaration of Trust and Bylaws
The business combination provisions of Maryland law (if our board of trustees opts to make them applicable to us), the control share acquisition provisions of Maryland law (if the applicable provision in the Bylaws is rescinded), the limitations on removal of trustees, the restrictions on the acquisition of our shares of beneficial interest, the power to issue additional common shares, preferred shares or equity shares and the advance notice provisions of the Bylaws could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a transaction or a change in the control that might involve a premium price for holders of our common shares or might otherwise be in their best interest. Certain provisions of Maryland law permit the board of trustees, without shareholder approval and regardless of what is provided in the Declaration of Trust or Bylaws, to implement takeover defenses that we may not yet have and to take, or refrain from taking, certain other actions without those decisions being subject to any heightened standard of conduct or standard of review as such decisions may be subject in certain other jurisdictions.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: June 4, 2007
 

Exhibit 3.1
: Public Storage, a Maryland real estate investment trust (the "Trust") formed under the Maryland REIT Law, desires to amend and restate its declaration of trust (as so amended and restated, the "Declaration of Trust").
FIRST
: The following provisions are all the provisions of the Declaration of Trust as hereby amended and restated:
SECOND
The Trust is a real estate investment trust within the meaning of the Maryland REIT Law. The Trust shall not be deemed to be a general partnership, limited partnership, joint venture, joint stock company or a corporation (but nothing herein shall preclude the Trust from being treated for tax purposes as an association under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code")).
The name of the Trust is: Public Storage.
The Board of Trustees of the Trust (the "Board of Trustees" or "Board") may change the name of the Trust without approval of the shareholders.
Section 3.1 . The purposes for which the Trust is formed are to engage in any lawful act or activity, including, without limitation or obligation, to invest in and to acquire, hold, manage, administer, control and dispose of property (including mortgages) including, without limitation or obligation, engaging in business as a real estate investment trust ("REIT") under the Code.
Purposes
Section 3.2 . The Trust shall have all of the powers granted to real estate investment trusts by the Maryland REIT Law and all other powers set forth in the Declaration of Trust that are not inconsistent with law and are appropriate to promote and attain the purposes set forth in the Declaration of Trust.
Powers
The name of the resident agent of the Trust in the State of Maryland is Corporation Trust Incorporated, whose post office address is 300 East Lombard Street, Baltimore, Maryland 21202. The resident agent is a Maryland corporation. The Trust may have such offices or places of business within or outside the State of Maryland as the Board of Trustees may from time to time determine.
Section 5.1 . Subject to any express limitations contained in the Declaration of Trust or in the Bylaws, (a) the business and affairs of the Trust shall be managed under the direction of the Board of Trustees and (b) the Board shall have full, exclusive and absolute power, control and authority over any and all property of the Trust. The Board may take any action as in its sole judgment and discretion is necessary or appropriate to conduct the business and affairs of the Trust. The Declaration of Trust shall be construed with the presumption in favor of the grant of power and authority to the Board. Any construction of the Declaration of Trust or determination made in good faith
Powers
by the Board concerning its powers and authority hereunder shall be conclusive. The enumeration and definition of particular powers of the Trustees included in the Declaration of Trust or in the Bylaws shall in no way be limited or restricted by reference to or inference from the terms of this or any other provision of the Declaration of Trust or the Bylaws or construed or deemed by inference or otherwise in any manner to exclude or limit the powers conferred upon the Board or the Trustees under the general laws of the State of Maryland or any other applicable laws.
The Board shall have the authority to cause the Trust to elect to qualify for federal income tax treatment as a REIT. Following such election, if the Board determines that it is no longer in the best interests of the Trust to continue to be qualified as a REIT, the Board may revoke or otherwise terminate the Trust's REIT election pursuant to Section 856(g) of the Code.
The Board, without any action by the shareholders of the Trust, shall have and may exercise, on behalf of the Trust, without limitation, the power to determine that compliance with any restriction or limitations on ownership and transfers of shares of the Trust's beneficial interest set forth in Article VII of the Declaration of Trust is no longer required in order for the Trust to qualify as a REIT; to adopt Bylaws of the Trust, which may thereafter be amended or repealed as provided therein; to elect officers in the manner prescribed in the Bylaws; to solicit proxies from holders of shares of beneficial interest of the Trust; and to do any other acts and deliver any other documents necessary or appropriate to the foregoing powers.
Section 5.2 . The number of Trustees (hereinafter the "Trustees") is currently set at ten (10), but may hereafter be increased to a maximum of fifteen (15) or decreased to not fewer than three (3) pursuant to the Bylaws. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if for any reason any or all of the Trustees cease to be Trustees, such event shall not terminate the Trust or affect the Declaration of Trust or the powers of the remaining Trustees. The names and addresses of the current ten Trustees, who shall serve until the first annual meeting of shareholders and until their successors are duly elected and qualify, or until such later time as determined by the Board of Trustees as hereinafter provided, are:
Number
 
 
The Trustees may increase the number of Trustees and fill any vacancy, whether resulting from an increase in the number of Trustees or otherwise, on the Board of Trustees. Election of Trustees by shareholders shall require the vote and be in accordance with the procedures set forth in the Bylaws.
It shall not be necessary to list in the Declaration of Trust the names and addresses of any Trustees hereinafter elected.
Section 5.3 . Any Trustee may resign by written notice to the Board, effective upon execution and delivery to the Trust of such written notice or upon any future date specified in the notice. Subject to the rights of holders of one or more classes or series of Preferred Shares, as hereinafter defined, to elect one or more Trustees, a Trustee may be removed at any time, but only with cause, at a meeting of the shareholders, by the affirmative vote of the holders of not less than two thirds of the Shares then outstanding and entitled to vote generally in the election of Trustees.
Resignation or Removal
Section 5.4 . The Trustees shall be elected at each annual meeting of the Shareholders and shall serve until the next annual meeting of the Shareholders and until their successors are duly elected and qualified.
Term
Section 5.5 . The determination as to any of the following matters, made in good faith by or pursuant to the direction of the Board of Trustees consistent with the Declaration of Trust, shall be final and conclusive and shall be binding upon the Trust and every holder of Shares: the amount of the net income of the Trust for any period and the amount of assets at any time legally available for the payment of dividends, redemption of Shares or the payment of other distributions on Shares; the amount of paid-in surplus, net assets, other surplus, annual or other cash flow, funds from operations, net profit, net assets in excess of capital, undivided profits or excess of profits over losses on sales of assets; the amount, purpose, time of creation, increase or decrease, alteration or cancellation of any reserves or charges and the propriety thereof (whether or not any obligation or liability for which such reserves or charges shall have been created shall have been paid or discharged); any interpretation of the terms, preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers or rights, restrictions, limitations as to dividends or distributions, qualifications or terms or conditions of redemption of any class or series of Shares; the fair value, or any sale, bid or asked price to be applied in determining the fair value, of any asset owned or held by the Trust or of any Shares; the number of Shares of any class of the Trust; any matter relating to the acquisition, holding and disposition of any assets by the Trust; or any other matter relating to the business and affairs of the Trust or required
Determinations by Board
 
or permitted by applicable law, the Declaration of Trust or Bylaws or otherwise to be determined by the Board of Trustees.
Section 6.1 Authorized Shares. The beneficial interest of the Trust shall be divided into shares of beneficial interest (the "Shares"). The total number of Shares of all classes that the Trust has authority to issue is 850,000,000, of which 650,000,000 Shares are initially classified as common shares of beneficial interest, $0.10 par value per share ("Common Shares"), 100,000,000 Shares are initially classified as equity shares of beneficial interest, $0.01 par value per share ("Equity Shares"), and 100,000,000 Shares are initially classified as preferred shares of beneficial interest, $0.01 par value per share ("Preferred Shares"). The Board is authorized to classify and reclassify any unissued Shares of any class or series of shares of beneficial interest into Shares of another class or series of shares of beneficial interest. If shares of one class are classified or reclassified into shares of another class of shares pursuant to this Article VI, the number of authorized shares of the former class shall be automatically decreased and the number of shares of the latter class shall be automatically increased, in each case by the number of shares so classified or reclassified, so that the aggregate number of shares of beneficial interest of all classes that the Trust has authority to issue shall not be more than the total number of shares of beneficial interest set forth in the second sentence of this paragraph.
Section 6.2 . Subject to the provisions of Article VII, each Common Share shall entitle the holder thereof to one vote on each matter upon which holders of Common Shares are entitled to vote.
Common Shares
Section 6.3. . The Board of Trustees may classify any unissued Equity Shares and reclassify any previously classified but unissued Equity Shares of any series from time to time, into one or more classes or series of common shares, equity shares or preferred shares.
Equity Shares
Section 6.4 . The Board of Trustees may classify any unissued Preferred Shares and reclassify any previously classified but unissued Preferred Shares of any series from time to time, into one or more classes or series of common shares, equity shares or preferred shares.
Preferred Shares
Section 6.5 . Prior to issuance of any Shares classified or reclassified, the Board of Trustees by resolution shall: (a) designate that class or series to distinguish it from all other classes and series of Shares; (b) specify the number of Shares to be included in the class or series; (c) set, subject to the provisions of Article VII and subject to the express terms of any class or series of Shares outstanding at the time, the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends or other distributions, qualifications and terms and conditions of redemption for each class or series; and (d) cause the Trust to file articles supplementary with the Maryland State Department of Assessments and Taxation (the "SDAT"). Any of the terms of any class or series of Shares set pursuant to clause (c) of this Section 6.5 may be made dependent upon facts ascertainable outside the Declaration of Trust (including the occurrence of any event, including a determination or action by the Trust or any other person or body) and may vary among holders thereof, provided that the manner in which such facts or variations shall operate upon the terms of such class or series of Shares is clearly and expressly set forth in the articles supplementary filed with the SDAT.
Classified or Reclassified Shares
Section 6.6 . The Board of Trustees may from time to time authorize and the Trust shall declare to shareholders such dividends or distributions in cash or other assets of the Trust or in securities of the Trust or from another source as the Board of Trustees in its discretion shall determine. The Board of Trustees shall endeavor to authorize, and the Trust shall declare and pay, such dividends and distributions as shall be necessary for the Trust to qualify as a REIT under the Code; however, shareholders shall have no right to any dividend or distribution unless and until authorized by the Board and declared and publicly disclosed by the Trust. The exercise of the powers and rights of the Board of Trustees pursuant to this Section 6.6 shall be subject to the preferences of any class or series of Shares at the time outstanding.
Dividends and Distributions
Section 6.7 . Notwithstanding any other provision in the Declaration of Trust, no determination shall be made by the Board of Trustees nor shall any transaction be entered into by the Trust that would cause any Shares or other beneficial interest in the Trust not to constitute "transferable
Transferable Shares; Preferential Dividends
 
shares" or "transferable certificates of beneficial interest" under Section 856(a)(2) of the Code or that would cause any distribution to constitute a preferential dividend as described in Section 562(c) of the Code.
Section 6.8 . All Shares shall be personal property entitling the shareholders only to those rights provided in the Declaration of Trust. The shareholders shall have no interest in the property of the Trust and shall have no right to compel any partition, division, dividend or distribution of the Trust or of the property of the Trust. The death of a shareholder shall not terminate the Trust. The Trust is entitled to treat as shareholders only those persons in whose names Shares are registered as holders of Shares on the share ledger of the Trust.
General Nature of Shares
Section 6.9 . The Trust may, without the consent or approval of any shareholder, issue fractional Shares, eliminate a fraction of a Share by rounding up or down to a full Share, arrange for the disposition of a fraction of a Share by the person entitled to it, or pay cash for the fair value of a fraction of a Share.
Fractional Shares
Section 6.10 . Subject to an express provision to the contrary in the terms of any class or series of beneficial interest hereafter authorized, the Board of Trustees shall have the power to divide or combine the outstanding shares of any class or series of beneficial interest, without a vote of shareholders.
Divisions and Combinations of Shares
Section 6.11 . All persons who shall acquire a Share shall acquire the same subject to the provisions of the Declaration of Trust and the Bylaws.
Declaration of Trust and Bylaws
Section 7.1 . For the purpose of this Article VII, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
Definitions
. The term "Beneficial Ownership" shall mean ownership of Shares by a Person, whether the interest in Shares is held directly or indirectly (including by a nominee), and shall include interests that would be treated as owned through the application of Section 544 of the Code, as modified by Sections 856(h)(1)(B) and 856(h)(3) of the Code. The terms "Beneficial Owner," "Beneficially Owns" and "Beneficially Owned" shall have the correlative meanings.
Beneficial Ownership
. The term "Business Day" shall mean any day, other than a Saturday or Sunday, that is neither a legal holiday nor a day on which banking institutions in New York, New York are authorized or required by law, regulation or executive order to close.
Business Day
. The term "Charitable Beneficiary" shall mean one or more beneficiaries of the Charitable Trust as determined pursuant to Section 7.3.7, provided that each such organization must be described in Sections 501(c)(3), 170(b)(1)(A) and 170(c)(2) of the Code.
Charitable Beneficiary
. The term "Charitable Trust" shall mean any trust provided for in Section 7.2.1(b)(i) and Section 7.3.1.
Charitable Trust
. The term "Charitable Trustee" shall mean the Person unaffiliated with the Trust and a Prohibited Owner, that is appointed by the Trust to serve as trustee of the Charitable Trust.
Charitable Trustee
. The term "Code" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
Code
. The term "Declaration of Trust" shall mean this Declaration of Trust as filed for record with the SDAT, and any amendments and supplements thereto.
Declaration of Trust
. The term "Designated Investment Entity" shall mean either (i) a pension trust that qualifies for look-through treatment under Section 856(h) of the Code, (ii) an entity that qualifies as a regulated investment company under Section 851 of the Code, or (iii) a Qualified Investment Manager; provided that each beneficial owner of such entity, or in the case of a Qualified Investment Manager holding Shares solely for the benefit of its customers, each such customer, would satisfy the Ownership Limit if such beneficial owner owned directly its proportionate share of the Shares that are held by such Designated Investment Entity.
Designated Investment Entity
. The term "Designated Investment Entity Limit" shall mean (i) with respect to any class or series of Common Shares, 9.9% (in value or number of shares, whichever is more
Designated Investment Entity Limit
 
restrictive) of the outstanding shares of such class or series of Common Shares of the Trust; and (ii) with respect to any class or series of Preferred Shares or Equity Shares, as the case may be, 100% of the outstanding shares of such class or series of Preferred Shares or Equity Shares, as the case may be, of the Trust.
. The term "Excepted Holder" shall mean B. Wayne Hughes, Tamara Hughes Gustavson, B. Wayne Hughes Jr., each of their respective spouses, children (and their respective spouses), and grandchildren (and their respective spouses) (such individuals being referred to as "Hughes Family Members"), any Person who is or would be a Beneficial Owner of Common Shares as a result of the Beneficial Ownership of Common Shares by any Hughes Family Member, B.W. Hughes Living Trust, B. Wayne Hughes 5-04 Annuity Trust, B. Wayne Hughes 6-04 Annuity Trust, B. Wayne Hughes 9-05 Annuity Trust, American Commercial Equities, LLC, and American Commercial Equities Two, LLC, and any Person whose Beneficial Ownership of Common Shares would cause a Hughes Family Member to be considered the Beneficial Owner of such Common Shares (Excepted Holder status shall apply to Persons in this final category solely to the extent of the deemed Beneficial Ownership held by such Hughes Family Members) (collectively, the "").
Excepted Holder
Excepted Holders
. The term "Excepted Holder Limit" shall mean as follows:
Excepted Holder Limit
(1) With respect to any class or series of Common Shares, no Excepted Holder shall be permitted to Beneficially Own any class or series of Common Shares to the extent that, as a result of such Beneficial Ownership:
(A) any single Excepted Holder who is considered an individual for purposes of Section 542(a)(2) of the Code would be considered to Beneficially Own more than 35.66% of the outstanding shares of any such class or series;
(B) any two Excepted Holders who are considered individuals for purposes of Section 542(a)(2) of the Code would be considered to Beneficially Own more than 38.66% of the outstanding shares of any such class or series;
(C) any three Excepted Holders who are considered individuals for purposes of Section 542(a)(2) of the Code would be considered to Beneficially Own more than 41.66% of the outstanding shares of any such class or series;
(D) any four Excepted Holders who are considered individuals for purposes of Section 542(a)(2) of the Code would be considered to Beneficially Own more than 44.66% of the outstanding shares of any such class or series; or
(E) any five Excepted Holders who are considered individuals for purposes of Section 542(a)(2) of the Code would be considered to Beneficially Own more than 47.66% of the outstanding shares of any such class or series.
(2) With respect to any class or series of Equity Shares, the Excepted Holder Limit shall mean 15% of the outstanding shares of any such class or series.
(3) In applying this definition, the percentages of ownership of shares of any class or series shall be based on the number or value of the shares, whichever is more restrictive, as determined for purposes of Section 542(a)(2) and Section 856(a) of the Code.
. The term "Exemption" shall mean an exemption from the Ownership Limit or Designated Investment Entity Limit, as the case may be, as granted by the Board pursuant to Section 7.2.7.
Exemption
. The term "Initial Date" shall mean the effective date of the Maryland Merger.
Initial Date
. The term "Market Price" on any date shall mean, with respect to any class or series of outstanding Shares, the Closing Price for such Shares on such date. The "Closing Price" on any date shall mean the last sale price for such Shares, regular way, or, in case no such sale takes place on such day, the average of the closing bid and asked prices, regular way, for such Shares, in either case as reported in the principal consolidated transaction reporting system with respect to securities listed or admitted to trading on the NYSE or, if such Shares are not listed or admitted to trading on the NYSE, as reported on the principal consolidated transaction reporting system with respect to securities listed on the principal national securities exchange on which such Shares are listed or admitted to trading or, if such Shares are not listed or admitted to
Market Price
 
trading on any national securities exchange, the last quoted price, or, if not so quoted, the average of the high bid and low asked prices in the over-the-counter market, as reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotation System or, if such system is no longer in use, the principal other automated quotation system that may then be in use or, if such Shares are not quoted by any such organization, the average of the closing bid and asked prices as furnished by a professional market maker making a market in such Shares selected by the Board of Trustees or, in the event that no trading price is available for such Shares, the fair market value of Shares, as determined in good faith by the Board of Trustees.
. The term "Maryland Merger" shall mean the merger of Public Storage, Inc., a California corporation, with and into the Trust.
Maryland Merger
. The term "NYSE" shall mean The New York Stock Exchange.
NYSE
. The term "Ownership Limit" shall mean (i) with respect to any class or series of Common Shares, 3% (in value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of the outstanding shares of such class or series of Common Shares of the Trust; and (ii) with respect to any class or series of Preferred Shares or Equity Shares, as the case may be, 9.9% (in value or number of Shares, whichever is more restrictive) of the outstanding shares of such class or series of Preferred Shares or Equity Shares, as the case may be, of the Trust.
Ownership Limit
. The term "Person" shall mean an individual, corporation, partnership, estate, trust (including a trust qualified under Sections 401(a) or 501(c)(17) of the Code), a portion of a trust permanently set aside for or to be used exclusively for the purposes described in Section 642(c) of the Code, association, private foundation within the meaning of Section 509(a) of the Code, joint stock company or other entity.
Person
. The term "Prohibited Owner" shall mean, with respect to any purported Transfer, any Person who, but for the provisions of Section 7.2.1, would Beneficially Own Shares, and if appropriate in the context, shall also mean any Person who would have been the record owner of Shares that the Prohibited Owner would have so owned.
Prohibited Owner
. The term "Qualified Investment Manager" shall mean an entity (i) who for compensation engages in the business of advising others as to the value of securities or as to the advisability of investing in, purchasing, or selling securities; (ii) who purchases securities in the ordinary course of its business and not with the purpose or effect of changing or influencing control of the Trust, nor in connection with or as a participant in any transaction having such purpose or effect, including any transaction subject to Rule 13d-3(b) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the ""); and (iii) who has or shares voting power and investment power within the meaning of Rule 13d-3(a) under the Exchange Act. A Qualified Investment Manager shall be deemed to beneficially own all Common Shares beneficially owned by each of its affiliates, after application of the beneficial ownership rules under Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act, provided such affiliate meets the requirements set forth in the preceding clause (ii).
Qualified Investment Manager
Exchange Act
. The term "REIT" shall mean a real estate investment trust within the meaning of Section 856 of the Code.
REIT
. The term "Restriction Termination Date" shall mean the first day after the Initial Date on which the Board determines that it is no longer in the best interests of the Trust to attempt to, or continue to, qualify as a REIT or that compliance with the restrictions and limitations on Beneficial Ownership and Transfers of Shares set forth herein is no longer required in order for the Trust to qualify as a REIT.
Restriction Termination Date
. The term "SDAT" shall mean the State Department of Assessments and Taxation of Maryland.
SDAT
. The term "Transfer" shall mean any issuance, sale, transfer, gift, assignment, devise or other disposition, as well as any other event that causes any Person to acquire Beneficial Ownership or any agreement to take any such actions or cause any such events, of Shares or the right to vote or receive dividends or distributions on Shares, including (a) a change in the capital structure of the Trust, (b) a change in the relationship between two or more Persons which causes a change in ownership of Shares by application of Section 544 of the Code, as modified by Section 856(h) of the Code, (c) the granting or exercise of any option or warrant (or any disposition of any option or warrant), pledge, security interest, or similar right to acquire Shares, (d) any disposition of any securities or rights convertible into or exchangeable for Shares or any interest in Shares or any exercise of any such conversion or exchange right and (e) Transfers of interests in
Transfer
 
other entities that result in changes in Beneficial Ownership of Shares; in each case, whether voluntary or involuntary, whether owned of record, Beneficially Owned and whether by operation of law or otherwise. The terms "Transferring" and "Transferred" shall have the correlative meanings.
Section 7.2 .
Shares
Section 7.2.1 . During the period commencing on the Initial Date and prior to the Restriction Termination Date:
Ownership Limitations
(a) .
Basic Restrictions
(i) (1) No Person shall Beneficially Own shares of any class or series of Common Shares in excess of the Ownership Limit, other than: (A) an Excepted Holder, which shall not Beneficially Own Common Shares in excess of the Excepted Holder Limit for such Excepted Holder, (B) a Designated Investment Entity, which shall not Beneficially Own Common Shares in excess of the Designated Investment Entity Limit, and (C) a Person that complies with an Exemption, which Person shall not Beneficially Own Common Shares in excess of the ownership permitted by such Exemption.
(2) No Person shall Beneficially Own shares of any class or series of Preferred Shares or Equity Shares in excess of the Ownership Limit, other than (A) an Excepted Holder, which shall not Beneficially Own Equity Shares in excess of the Excepted Holder Limit for such Excepted Holder, (B) a Designated Investment Entity, which shall not Beneficially Own Preferred Shares or Equity Shares in excess of the Designated Investment Entity Limit, and (C) a Person that complies with an Exemption, which Person shall not Beneficially Own Preferred Shares or Equity Shares in excess of the ownership permitted by such Exemption.
Notwithstanding the above subparagraph 7.2.1(a)(i)(1) and (2), no Person shall be deemed to exceed the Ownership Limit set forth in subparagraph 7.2.1(a)(i) (1) and (2) solely by reason of the Beneficial Ownership of Shares to the extent that such Shares were Beneficially Owned by such Person on the effective date of the 1995 merger of Public Storage Management, Inc., with and into Storage Equities, Inc. (then renamed, Public Storage, Inc.); , , that the Beneficial Ownership of any such Shares shall be taken into account in determining whether any subsequent Transfer or other event violates subparagraph 7.2.1(a)(i).
provided
however
(ii) No Person shall Beneficially Own Shares to the extent that (1) such Beneficial Ownership of Shares would result in the Trust being "closely held" within the meaning of Section 856(h) of the Code (without regard to whether the ownership interest is held during the last half of a taxable year), or (2) such Beneficial Ownership of Shares would result in the Trust otherwise failing to qualify as a REIT.
(iii) No Person shall Transfer any Shares if, as a result of the Transfer, the Shares would be beneficially owned by less than 100 Persons (determined without reference to the rules of attribution under Section 544 of the Code). Any Transfer of Shares that, if effective, would result in Shares being beneficially owned by less than 100 Persons (determined under the principles of Section 856(a)(5) of the Code) shall be void , and the intended transferee shall acquire no rights in such Shares.
ab
initio
(b) . If any Transfer of Shares occurs which, if effective, would result in any Person Beneficially Owning Shares in violation of Section 7.2.1(a)(i) or (ii),
Transfer in Trust
(i) then that number of Shares the Beneficial Ownership of which otherwise would cause such Person to violate Section 7.2.1(a)(i) or (ii) (rounded up to the nearest whole Share) shall be automatically transferred to a Charitable Trust for the benefit of a Charitable Beneficiary, as described in Section 7.3, effective as of the close of business on the Business Day prior to the date of such Transfer, and such Person shall acquire no rights in such Shares; or
(ii) if the transfer to the Charitable Trust described in clause (i) of this sentence would not be effective for any reason to prevent the violation of Section 7.2.1(a)(i) or (ii), then the Transfer of that number of Shares that otherwise would cause any Person to violate Section 7.2.1(a)(i) or (ii) shall be void , and the intended transferee shall acquire no rights in such Shares.
ab
initio
 
Section 7.2.2 . If the Board or any duly authorized committee thereof shall at any time determine in good faith that a Transfer or other event has taken place that results in a violation of Section 7.2.1 or that a Person intends to acquire or has attempted to acquire Beneficial Ownership of any Shares in violation of Section 7.2.1 (whether or not such violation is intended), the Board or a committee thereof shall be empowered to take such action as it deems advisable to refuse to give effect to or to prevent such Transfer or other event, including, without limitation, causing the Trust to redeem Shares, refusing to give effect to such Transfer on the books of the Trust or instituting proceedings to enjoin such Transfer or other event; , , that any Transfer or attempted Transfer or other event in violation of Section 7.2.1 shall automatically result in the transfer to the Charitable Trust described above, and, where applicable, such Transfer (or other event) shall be void as provided above irrespective of any action (or non-action) by the Board or a committee thereof.
Remedies for Breach
provided
however
ab
initio
Section 7.2.3 . Any Person who acquires, or attempts or intends to acquire, Beneficial Ownership of Shares that will or may violate Section 7.2.1(a), or any Person who would have owned Shares that resulted in a transfer to the Charitable Trust pursuant to the provisions of Section 7.2.1(b), shall immediately give written notice to the Trust of such event, or in the case of such a proposed or attempted transaction, shall give at least 15 days prior written notice, and shall provide to the Trust such other information as the Trust may request in order to determine the effect, if any, of such acquisition or ownership on the Trust's status as a REIT.
Notice of Restricted Transfer
Section 7.2.4 . From the Initial Date and prior to the Restriction Termination Date:
Owners Required To Provide Information
(a) Every owner of more than 5% (or such lower percentage as required by the Code or the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder) of the outstanding Shares, within 30 days after the end of each taxable year, shall give written notice to the Trust stating the name and address of such owner, the number of Shares Beneficially Owned and a description of the manner in which such Shares are held; provided, that a shareholder of record who holds outstanding Shares as nominee for another Person, which other Person is required to include in gross income the dividends or distributions received on such Shares (an ""), shall give written notice to the Trust stating the name and address of such Actual Owner and the number of Shares of such Actual Owner with respect to which the shareholder of record is nominee.
Actual Owner
(b) Each Person who is a Beneficial Owner of Shares and each Person (including the shareholder of record) who is holding Shares for a Beneficial Owner shall provide to the Trust such information as the Trust may request, in good faith, including any information regarding such Person's qualification as a Designated Investment Entity, in order to determine the Trust's status as a REIT and to comply with requirements of any taxing authority or governmental authority or to determine such compliance.
(c) Each owner and Beneficial Owner shall provide to the Trust such information as the Trust may request in order to determine the effect, if any, of such ownership or Beneficial Ownership on the Trust's status as a REIT and to ensure compliance with the Ownership Limit, Excepted Holder Limit or Designated Investment Entity Limit.
Section 7.2.5 . Subject to Sections 5.1 and 7.4 of the Declaration of Trust, nothing contained in this Section 7.2 shall limit the authority of the Board to take such other action as it deems necessary or advisable to protect the Trust and the interests of its shareholders in preserving the Trust's status as a REIT.
Remedies Not Limited
Section 7.2.6 . In the case of an ambiguity in the application of any of the provisions of this Section 7.2, Section 7.3 or any definition contained in Section 7.1, the Board shall have the power to determine the application of the provisions of this Section 7.2 or Section 7.3 with respect to any situation based on the facts known to it. If Section 7.2 or 7.3 requires an action by the Board and the Declaration of Trust fails to provide specific guidance with respect to such action, the Board shall have the power to determine the action to be taken so long as such action is not contrary to the provisions of Sections 7.1, 7.2 or 7.3.
Ambiguity
Section 7.2.7 .
Exemptions from the Ownership Limit
 
(a) The Board may, in its sole and absolute discretion, exempt a Person from the Ownership Limit or Designated Investment Entity Limit if: (i) such Person submits to the Board information satisfactory to the Board, in its sole and absolute discretion, demonstrating that such Person is not an individual for purposes of Section 542(a)(2) of the Code (determined taking into account Section 856(h)(3)(A) of the Code); (ii) such Person submits to the Board information satisfactory to the Board, in its sole and absolute discretion, relevant to demonstrating that no Person who is an individual for purposes of Section 542(a)(2) of the Code (determined taking into account Section 856(h)(3)(A) of the Code) would be considered to Beneficially Own Shares in excess of the Ownership Limit, Excepted Holder Limit or Designated Investment Entity Limit, as applicable, by reason of such Person's ownership of Shares in excess of the Ownership Limit or Designated Investment Entity Limit, as the case may be, pursuant to the Exemption granted under this subparagraph (a); (iii) such Person submits to the Board information satisfactory to the Board, in its sole and absolute discretion, relevant to demonstrating that clause (2) of subparagraph (a)(ii) of Section 7.2.1 will not be violated by reason of such Person's ownership of Shares in excess of the Ownership Limit or Designated Investment Entity Limit pursuant to the Exemption granted under this subparagraph (a); and (iv) such Person provides to the Board such representations and undertakings, if any, as the Board may, in its sole and absolute discretion, require to ensure that the conditions in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) hereof are satisfied and will continue to be satisfied throughout the period during which such Person owns Shares in excess of the Ownership Limit or Designated Investment Entity Limit, as the case may be, pursuant to any Exemption thereto granted under this subparagraph (a), and such Person agrees that any violation of such representations and undertakings or any attempted violation thereof will result in the application of the remedies set forth in Section 7.2 with respect to Shares held in excess of the Ownership Limit or Designated Investment Entity Limit with respect to such Person (determined without regard to the Exemption granted such Person under this subparagraph (a)).
(b) Prior to granting any Exemption pursuant to subparagraph (a), the Board, in its sole and absolute discretion, may require a ruling from the IRS or an opinion of counsel, in either case in form and substance satisfactory to the Board, in its sole and absolute discretion as it may deem necessary or advisable in order to determine or ensure the Trust's status as a REIT; , , that the Board shall not be obligated to require obtaining a favorable ruling or opinion in order to grant an Exemption hereunder.
provided
however
(c) Subject to Section 7.2.1(a)(ii), an underwriter that participates in a public offering or a private placement of Shares (or securities convertible into or exchangeable for Shares) may Beneficially Own Shares (or securities convertible into or exchangeable for Shares) in excess of the Ownership Limit or Designated Investment Entity Limit, but only to the extent necessary to facilitate such public offering or private placement.
(d) The Board may only reduce the Excepted Holder Limit for an Excepted Holder with the prior written consent of such Excepted Holder or the prior written consent of each of B. Wayne Hughes, Tamara Hughes Gustavson, and B. Wayne Hughes, Jr to the extent then living. No Excepted Holder Limit shall be reduced to a percentage that is less than the Ownership Limit or Designated Investment Entity Limit as applied to Common Shares.
(e) If a member of the Board requests that the Board grant an Exemption to the Ownership Limit with respect to such member or with respect to any other Person if such Board member would be considered to be the Beneficial Owner of Shares owned by such Person, such member of the Board shall not participate in the decision of the Board as to whether to grant any such Exemption.
Section 7.2.8 . The Board may increase the Ownership Limit or Designated Investment Entity Limit subject to the limitations provided in this Section 7.2.8.
Increase in Ownership Limit or Designated Investment Entity Limit
(a) The Ownership Limit or Designated Investment Entity Limit may not be increased if, after giving effect to such increase, five Persons who are considered individuals pursuant to Section 542 of the Code, as modified by Section 856(h)(3) of the Code (taking into account all of the Excepted Holders), could Beneficially Own, in the aggregate, more than 49% of the value of the outstanding Shares.
 
(b) Prior to the modification of the Ownership Limit or Designated Investment Entity Limit pursuant to this Section 7.2.8, the Board, in its sole and absolute discretion, may require such opinions of counsel, affidavits, undertakings or agreements as it may deem necessary or advisable in order to determine or ensure the Trust's status as a REIT if the modification in the Ownership Limit or Designated Investment Entity Limit were to be made.
Section 7.2.9 . Each certificate for Shares shall bear substantially the following legend:
Legend
The shares represented by this certificate are subject to restrictions on Beneficial Ownership and Transfer. Subject to certain further restrictions and except as expressly provided in the Trust's Declaration of Trust,
(i) no Person may Beneficially Own shares of any class or series of Common Shares of the Trust in excess of 3% (in value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of the outstanding shares of such class or series, other than (A) an Excepted Holder, (B) a Designated Investment Entity or (C) a Person granted an Exemption;
(ii) no Person may Beneficially Own shares of any class or series of Preferred Shares or Equity Shares of the Trust in excess of 9.9% (in value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of the outstanding shares of such class or series, as the case may be, other than (A) an Excepted Holder (with respect to Equity Shares), (B) a Designated Investment Entity or (C) a Person granted an Exemption;
(iii) no Excepted Holder may Beneficially Own any class or series of Common Shares or Equity Shares in excess of the Excepted Holder Limit for such Excepted Holder, as set forth in the Trust's Declaration of Trust;
(iv) no Designated Investment Entity may Beneficially Own any class or series of Common Shares of the Trust in excess of 9.9% (in value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of the outstanding shares of such class or series;
(v) no Person may Beneficially Own Shares that would result in the Trust being "closely held" under Section 856(h) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the "") or otherwise cause the Trust to fail to qualify as a real estate investment trust under the Code; and
Code
(vi) no Person may Transfer Shares if such Transfer would result in Shares of the Trust being owned by fewer than 100 Persons.
Any Person who Beneficially Owns or attempts to Beneficially Own Shares which cause or will cause a Person to Beneficially Own Shares in excess or in violation of the limitations set forth in the Trust's Declaration of Trust must immediately notify the Trust. If any of the restrictions on transfer or ownership are violated, the Shares represented hereby will be automatically transferred to a Charitable Trustee of a Charitable Trust for the benefit of one or more Charitable Beneficiaries. In addition, upon the occurrence of certain events, attempted Transfers in violation of the restrictions described above may be void . A Person who attempts to Beneficially Own Shares in violation of the ownership limitations described above shall have no claim, cause of action, or any recourse whatsoever against a transferor of such Shares. All capitalized terms in this legend have the meanings defined in the Trust's Declaration of Trust, as the same may be amended from time to time, a copy of which, including the restrictions on transfer and ownership, will be furnished to each holder of Shares of the Trust on request and without charge.
ab
initio
Instead of the foregoing legend, the certificate may state that the Trust will furnish a full statement about certain restrictions on transferability to a shareholder on request and without charge.
Section 7.3 .
Transfer of Shares to the Charitable Trust
Section 7.3.1 . Upon any purported Transfer or other event described in Section 7.2.1(b) that would result in a transfer of Shares to a Charitable Trust, such Shares shall be deemed to have been transferred to the Charitable Trustee as trustee of a Charitable Trust for the exclusive benefit of one or more Charitable Beneficiaries. Such transfer to the Charitable Trustee shall be deemed to be effective as of the close of business on the Business Day prior to the purported Transfer or other event that results in the transfer to the Charitable Trust pursuant to Section 7.2.1(b). The Charitable Trustee shall be appointed by the
Ownership by the Charitable Trust
 
Trust and shall be a Person unaffiliated with the Trust and any Prohibited Owner. Each Charitable Beneficiary shall be designated by the Trust as provided in Section 7.3.7.
Section 7.3.2 . Shares held by the Charitable Trustee shall be issued and outstanding Shares of the Trust. The Prohibited Owner shall have no rights in the Shares held by the Charitable Trustee. The Prohibited Owner shall not benefit economically from ownership of any Shares held in trust by the Charitable Trustee, shall have no rights to dividends or other distributions and shall not possess any rights to vote or other rights attributable to the Shares held in the Charitable Trust. The Prohibited Owner shall have no claim, cause of action, or any other recourse whatsoever against the purported transferor of such Shares.
Status of Shares Held by the Charitable Trustee
Section 7.3.3 . The Charitable Trustee shall have all voting rights and rights to dividends or other distributions with respect to Shares held in the Charitable Trust, which rights shall be exercised for the exclusive benefit of the Charitable Beneficiary. Any dividend or other distribution paid prior to the discovery by the Trust that Shares have been transferred to the Charitable Trustee shall be paid with respect to such Shares to the Charitable Trustee upon demand and any dividend or other distribution authorized but unpaid shall be paid when due to the Charitable Trustee. Any dividends or distributions so paid over to the Charitable Trustee shall be held in trust for the Charitable Beneficiary. The Prohibited Owner shall have no voting rights with respect to Shares held in the Charitable Trust and, subject to Maryland law, effective as of the date that Shares have been transferred to the Charitable Trustee, the Charitable Trustee shall have the authority (at the Charitable Trustee's sole discretion) (i) to rescind as void any vote cast by a Prohibited Owner prior to the discovery by the Trust that Shares have been transferred to the Charitable Trustee and (ii) to recast such vote in accordance with the desires of the Charitable Trustee acting for the benefit of the Charitable Beneficiary; , , that if the Trust has already taken irreversible action, then the Charitable Trustee shall not have the power to rescind and recast such vote. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Article VII, until the Trust has received notification that Shares have been transferred into a Charitable Trust, the Trust shall be entitled to rely on its share transfer and other shareholder records for purposes of preparing lists of shareholders entitled to vote at meetings, determining the validity and authority of proxies and otherwise conducting votes of shareholders.
Dividend and Voting Rights
provided
however
Section 7.3.4 . Upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of or any distribution of the assets of the Trust, the Charitable Trustee shall be entitled to receive, ratably with each other holder of Shares of the class or series of Shares that is held in the Charitable Trust, that portion of the assets of the Trust available for distribution to the holders of such class or series (determined based upon the ratio that the number of Shares of such class or series of Shares held by the Charitable Trustee bears to the total number of Shares of such class or series of Shares then outstanding). The Charitable Trustee shall distribute any such assets received in respect of the Shares held in the Charitable Trust in any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of, or distribution of the assets of the Trust, in accordance with Section 7.3.5.
Rights Upon Liquidation
Section 7.3.5 . Within 20 days of receiving notice from the Trust that Shares have been transferred to the Charitable Trust, the Charitable Trustee of the Charitable Trust shall sell the Shares held in the Charitable Trust to a person, designated by the Charitable Trustee, whose ownership of the Shares will not violate the ownership limitations set forth in Section 7.2.1(a). Upon such sale, the interest of the Charitable Beneficiary in the Shares sold shall terminate and the Charitable Trustee shall distribute the net proceeds of the sale to the Prohibited Owner and to the Charitable Beneficiary as provided in this Section 7.3.5. The Prohibited Owner shall receive the lesser of (1) the price paid by the Prohibited Owner for the Shares or, if the Prohibited Owner did not give value for the Shares in connection with the event causing the Shares to be held in the Charitable Trust (, in the case of a gift, devise or other such transaction), the Market Price of the Shares on the day of the event causing the Shares to be held in the Charitable Trust and (2) the price per share received by the Charitable Trustee from the sale or other disposition of the Shares held in the Charitable Trust. Any net sales proceeds in excess of the amount payable to the Prohibited Owner shall be immediately paid to the Charitable Beneficiary. If, prior to the discovery by the Trust that Shares have been transferred to the Charitable Trustee, such Shares are sold by a Prohibited Owner, then (i) such Shares shall be deemed to have been sold on behalf of the Charitable Trust and (ii) to the extent that the Prohibited Owner received an amount for such Shares that exceeds the amount that such Prohibited Owner was entitled to receive pursuant to this Section 7.3.5, such excess shall be paid to the Charitable Trustee upon demand. Subject to Section 7.3.6, the Charitable Trustee shall have the right and
Sale of Shares by Charitable Trustee
e.g.
 
power (but not the obligation) to offer any Share held in trust for sale to the Trust on such terms and conditions as the Charitable Trustee shall deem appropriate.
Section 7.3.6 . Shares transferred to the Charitable Trustee shall be deemed to have been offered for sale to the Trust, or its designee, at a price per share equal to the lesser of (i) the price per share in the transaction that resulted in such transfer to the Charitable Trust (or, in the case of a devise or gift, the Market Price at the time of such devise or gift) and (ii) the Market Price on the date the Trust, or its designee, accepts such offer. The Trust shall have the right to accept such offer until the Charitable Trustee has sold the Shares held in the Charitable Trust pursuant to Section 7.3.5. Upon such a sale to the Trust, the interest of the Charitable Beneficiary in the Shares sold shall terminate and the Charitable Trustee shall distribute the net proceeds of the sale to the Prohibited Owner.
Purchase Right in Shares Transferred to the Charitable Trustee
Section 7.3.7 . By written notice to the Charitable Trustee, the Trust shall designate one or more nonprofit organizations to be the Charitable Beneficiary of the interest in the Charitable Trust such that (i) Shares held in the Charitable Trust would not violate the restrictions set forth in Section 7.2.1(a) in the hands of such Charitable Beneficiary and (ii) each such organization must be described in Sections 501(c)(3), 170(b)(1)(A) or 170(c)(2) of the Code.
Designation of Charitable Beneficiaries
Section 7.4 . Nothing in this Article VII shall preclude the settlement of any transaction entered into through the facilities of the NYSE or any other national securities exchange or automated inter-dealer quotation system. The fact that the settlement of any transaction takes place shall not negate the effect of any other provision of this Article VII and any transferee in such a transaction shall be subject to all of the provisions and limitations set forth in this Article VII.
NYSE Transactions
Section 7.5 . The Trust is authorized specifically to seek equitable relief, including injunctive relief, to enforce the provisions of this Article VII.
Enforcement
Section 7.6 . No delay or failure on the part of the Trust or the Board in exercising any right hereunder shall operate as a waiver of any right of the Trust or the Board, as the case may be, except to the extent specifically waived in writing.
Non-Waiver
Section 8.1 . There shall be an annual meeting of the shareholders, to be held on proper notice at such time and location within or without the State of Maryland as shall be determined by or in the manner prescribed in the Bylaws, for the election of the Trustees, and for the transaction of any other business as may properly come before the meeting. Except as otherwise provided in the Declaration of Trust, special meetings of shareholders may be called in the manner provided in the Bylaws. Failure to hold an annual meeting does not affect the validity of any act otherwise taken by or on behalf of the Trust or affect the legal existence of the Trust.
Meetings
Section 8.2 .
Voting Rights
(a) Subject to the provisions of any class or series of Shares then outstanding or as otherwise required by law, the shareholders shall be entitled to vote only on the following matters: (i) election of Trustees as provided in Section 5.2 and the removal of Trustees as provided in Section 5.3; (ii) amendment of the Declaration of Trust as provided in Article X; (iii) termination of the Trust as provided in Section 12.2; (iv) merger or consolidation of the Trust, or the sale or disposition of substantially all of the property of the Trust , as provided in Article XI; (v) such other matters with respect to which the Board of Trustees has adopted a resolution declaring that a proposed action is advisable and directing that the matter be submitted to the shareholders for approval or ratification; and (vi) such other matters as may be properly brought before a meeting by a shareholder pursuant to the Bylaws.
(b) Each outstanding share entitled to vote, regardless of class, shall be entitled to one vote on each matter presented to shareholders, except that shareholders shall have the right to cumulative voting in the election of Trustees when the number of persons lawfully nominated exceeds the number of Trustees to be elected.
 
(c) With the exception of the election and removal of Trustees in accordance with the Declaration and the Bylaws of the Trust and any matter as may be properly brought before a shareholder pursuant to the Bylaws and applicable laws, no action that would bind the Trust and the Trustees may be taken without the prior recommendation of the Trustees. Except with respect to the foregoing matters, no action taken by the shareholders at any meeting shall in any way bind the Board of Trustees.
Section 8.3 .
Certain Rights of Stockholders
(a) Except as may be provided by the Board of Trustees in setting the terms of classified or reclassified Shares pursuant to Section 6.5, no holder of Shares shall, as such holder, have any preemptive right to purchase or subscribe for any additional Shares of the Trust or any other security of the Trust which it may issue or sell
.
(b) Shareholders of the Trust are not entitled to exercise the rights of objecting stockholders under Maryland law.
Section 8.4 . No action required or permitted to be taken by the shareholders may be taken without a meeting by less than unanimous written consent of the shareholders of the Trust.
Action by Shareholders without a Meeting
Section 8.5 . Subtitle 7 of Title 3 of the Corporations and Associations Article of the Annotated Code of Maryland shall not apply to any control share acquisition (as defined in such Subtitle 7) by any Excepted Holder of the Trust as of the effective date of these Articles of Amendment and Restatement or any present or future affiliate of any such Excepted Holder.
Control Share Acquisitions
Section 9.1 . No shareholder shall be liable for any debt, claim, demand, judgment or obligation of any kind of, against or with respect to the Trust by reason of his being a shareholder, nor shall any shareholder be subject to any personal liability whatsoever, in tort, contract or otherwise, to any person in connection with the property or the affairs of the Trust by reason of his being a shareholder.
Limitation of Shareholder Liability
Section 9.2 . To the maximum extent that Maryland law in effect from time to time permits limitation of the liability of trustees and officers of a Maryland real estate investment trust or directors or officers of a Maryland corporation, no Trustee or officer of the Trust shall be liable to the Trust or to any shareholder for money damages, except to the extent that (a) the Trustee or officer actually received an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services, for the amount of the benefit or profit in money, property, or services actually received, or (b) a judgment or other final adjudication adverse to the Trustee or officer is entered in a proceeding based on a finding in the proceeding that the Trustee's or officer's action or failure to act was the result of active and deliberate dishonesty and was material to the cause of action adjudicated in the proceeding. Neither the amendment nor repeal of this Section 9.2, nor the adoption or amendment of any other provision of the Declaration of Trust inconsistent with this Section 9.2, shall apply to or affect in any respect the applicability of the preceding sentence with respect to any act or failure to act that occurred prior to such amendment, repeal or adoption.
Limitation of Trustee and Officer Liability
Section 9.3 . To the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law in effect from time to time, and in accordance with applicable provisions of the Bylaws, the Trust shall indemnify and advance expenses in accordance with Maryland law to (a) any present or former Trustee or officer (including any individual who, at the request of the Trust, serves or has served as a director, officer, partner, trustee, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or any other enterprise) against any claim or liability to which he or she may become subject by reason of service in such capacity, and (b) any present or former Trustee or officer who has been successful in the defense of a proceeding to which he or she was made a party by reason of service in such capacity, against reasonable expenses incurred by the Trustee or officer in connection with the proceeding and shall pay or reimburse, in advance of final disposition of the proceeding, such reasonable expenses. The Trust may, with the approval of its Board of Trustees, provide such indemnification or advancement of expenses to any present or former Trustee or officer who served a predecessor of the Trust, and to any employee
Indemnification
 
or agent of the Trust or a predecessor of the Trust. Any amendment of this section shall be prospective only and shall not affect the applicability of this section with respect to any act or failure to act that occurred prior to such amendment.
Section 9.4 . Subject to any express restrictions in the Declaration of Trust or adopted by the Trustees in the Bylaws or by resolution, the Trust may enter into any contract or transaction of any kind with any person, including any Trustee, officer, employee or agent of the Trust or any person affiliated with a Trustee, officer, employee or agent of the Trust, whether or not any of them has a financial interest in such transaction, provided, however, that in the case of any contract or transaction in which any Trustee, officer, employee or agent of the Trust (or any person affiliated with such person) has a material financial interest in such transaction, then: (a) the fact of the interest shall be disclosed or known to: (i) the Board of Trustees, and the Board of Trustees shall approve or ratify the contract or transaction by the affirmative vote of a majority of disinterested Trustees, even if the disinterested Trustees constitute less than a quorum, or (ii) the shareholders entitled to vote on the matter, and the contract or transaction shall be authorized, approved or ratified by a majority of the votes cast by the shareholders entitled to vote other than the votes of shares owned of record or beneficially by the interested party; or (b) the contract or transaction is fair and reasonable to the Trust.
Transactions Between the Trust and its Trustees, Officers, Employees and Agents
Section 9.5 . The Board of Trustees may cause to be inserted in every written agreement, undertaking or obligation made or issued on behalf of the Trust, an appropriate provision to the effect that neither the shareholders nor the Trustees, officers, employees or agents of the Trust shall be liable under any written instrument creating an obligation of the Trust, and all Persons shall look solely to the property of the Trust for the payment of any claim under or for the performance of that instrument. The omission of the foregoing exculpatory language from any instrument shall not affect the validity or enforceability of such instrument and shall not render any shareholder, Trustee, officer, employee or agent liable thereunder to any third party nor shall the Trustees or any officer, employee or agent of the Trust be liable to anyone for such omission.
Express Exculpatory Clauses in Instruments
Section 10.1 . The Trust reserves the right from time to time to make any amendment to the Declaration of Trust, now or hereafter authorized by law, including, without limitation, any amendment altering the terms or contract rights, as expressly set forth in the Declaration of Trust, of any Shares. All rights and powers conferred by the Declaration of Trust on shareholders, Trustees and officers are granted subject to this reservation. The Trust shall file Articles of Amendment as required by Maryland law. All references to the Declaration of Trust shall include all amendments thereto.
General
Section 10.2 . The Trustees may amend the Declaration of Trust from time to time, in the manner provided by the Maryland REIT Law, without any action by the shareholders: (i) to qualify as a real estate investment trust under the Code or under the Maryland REIT Law, (ii) in any manner in which the charter of a Maryland corporation may be amended without shareholder approval, and (iii) as otherwise provided in the Declaration of Trust.
By Trustees
Section 10.3 . Any amendment to the Declaration of Trust shall be valid only after the Board of Trustees has adopted a resolution setting forth the proposed amendment and declaring such amendment advisable, and such amendment has been approved by the affirmative vote of the holders of not less than a majority of the shares then outstanding and entitled to vote thereon; provided, however, that an amendment to the Declaration of Trust that amends, repeals, or adds any provision inconsistent with Section 8.5 or the last paragraph of Article XI shall require, in addition to adoption of a Board of Trustees resolution as described in this Section 10.3, the approval by the affirmative vote of the holders of not less than 80% of the shares then outstanding and entitled to vote thereon.
By Shareholders
Section 10.4 . The Board of Trustees shall have the exclusive power to adopt, alter or repeal any provision of the Bylaws of the Trust and to make new Bylaws.
Bylaws
 
Subject to the provisions of any class or series of Shares at the time outstanding, the Trust may (a) merge the Trust with or into another entity or merge another entity into the Trust, (b) consolidate the Trust with one or more other entities into a new entity or (c) sell, lease, exchange or otherwise transfer all or substantially all of the property of the Trust. The Board of Trustees in proposing such action shall adopt a resolution that declares that the proposed transaction is advisable on substantially the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the resolution, and direct that the proposed transaction be submitted for consideration by the shareholders. The transaction must be approved the affirmative vote of holders of not less than a majority of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter.
A vote of the shareholders shall not be required for the merger into the Trust of any entity in which the Trust owns 90% or more of the entire equity interests in such entity, subject to the conditions and rights set forth in Section 8-501.1(c)(4) of the Maryland REIT Law.
A vote of the shareholders shall not be required if the Trust is the successor in the merger, the merger does not reclassify or change the outstanding Shares of the Trust immediately before the merger becomes effective or otherwise amend the Declaration of Trust and the number of Shares of each class or series outstanding immediately after the effective time of the merger does not increase by more than twenty percent (20%) of the number of Shares of the same class or series outstanding immediately before the merger becomes effective.
Subtitle 6 of Title 3 of the Corporations and Associations Article of the Annotated Code of Maryland shall not apply to any business combination (as defined in such Subtitle 6) between the Trust and any Excepted Holder of the Trust as of the effective date of these Articles of Amendment and Restatement or any present or future affiliate of any such Excepted Holder.
Section 12.1 . The Trust shall continue perpetually unless terminated pursuant to Section 12.2 or pursuant to any applicable provision of the Maryland REIT Law.
Duration
Section 12.2 .
Termination
(a) Subject to the provisions of any class or series of Shares at the time outstanding, the Trust may be terminated at any time only upon adoption of a resolution by the Board of Trustees declaring that the termination of the Trust is advisable and the approval thereof by the affirmative vote of two thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter. Upon the termination of the Trust:
(i) The Trust shall carry on no business except for the purpose of winding up its affairs.
(ii) The Trustees shall proceed to wind up the affairs of the Trust and all of the powers of the Trustees under the Declaration of Trust shall continue, including the powers to fulfill or discharge the Trust's contracts, collect its assets, sell, convey, assign, exchange, transfer or otherwise dispose of all or any part of the remaining property of the Trust to one or more persons at public or private sale for consideration which may consist in whole or in part of cash, securities or other property of any kind, discharge or pay its liabilities and do all other acts appropriate to liquidate its business.
(iii) After paying or adequately providing for the payment of all liabilities, and upon receipt of such releases, indemnities and agreements as the Trustees deem necessary for the protection of the Trust, the Trust may distribute the remaining property of the Trust among the shareholders so that after payment in full or the setting apart for payment of such preferential amounts, if any, to which the holders of any Shares at the time outstanding shall be entitled, the remaining property of the Trust shall, subject to any participating or similar rights of Shares at the time outstanding, be distributed ratably among the holders of Common Shares at the time outstanding.
(b) After termination of the Trust, the liquidation of its business and the distribution to the shareholders as herein provided, a majority of the Trustees shall execute and file with the Trust's records a document
 
certifying that the Trust has been duly terminated, and the Trustees shall be discharged from all liabilities and duties hereunder, and the rights and interests of all shareholders shall cease.
Section 13.1 . The Declaration of Trust is executed and delivered in the State of Maryland with reference to the laws thereof, and the rights of all parties and the validity, construction and effect of every provision hereof shall be subject to and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Maryland without regard to conflicts of laws provisions thereof.
Governing Law
Section 13.2 . Any certificate shall be final and conclusive as to any person dealing with the Trust if executed by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Trust or a Trustee, and if certifying to: (a) the number or identity of Trustees, officers of the Trust or shareholders; (b) the due authorization of the execution of any document; (c) the action or vote taken, and the existence of a quorum, at a meeting of the Board of Trustees or shareholders; (d) a copy of the Declaration of Trust or of the Bylaws as a true and complete copy as then in force; (e) an amendment to the Declaration of Trust; (f) the termination of the Trust; or (g) the existence of any fact relating to the affairs of the Trust. No purchaser, lender, transfer agent or other person shall be bound to make any inquiry concerning the validity of any transaction purporting to be made by the Trust on its behalf or by any officer, employee or agent of the Trust.
Reliance by Third Parties
Section 13.3 .
Severability
(a) The provisions of the Declaration of Trust are severable, and if the Board of Trustees shall determine, with the advice of counsel, that any one or more of such provisions (the "Conflicting Provisions") are in conflict with the Code, the Maryland REIT Law or other applicable federal or state laws, the Conflicting Provisions, to the extent of the conflict, shall be deemed never to have constituted a part of the Declaration of Trust, even without any amendment of the Declaration of Trust pursuant to Article X and without affecting or impairing any of the remaining provisions of the Declaration of Trust or rendering invalid or improper any action taken or omitted prior to such determination. No Trustee shall be liable for making or failing to make such a determination. In the event of any such determination by the Board of Trustees, the Board shall amend the Declaration of Trust in the manner provided in Section 10.2.
(b) If any provision of the Declaration of Trust shall be held invalid or unenforceable in any jurisdiction, such holding shall apply only to the extent of any such invalidity or unenforceability and shall not in any manner affect, impair or render invalid or unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction or any other provision of the Declaration of Trust in any jurisdiction.
Section 13.4 . In the Declaration of Trust, unless the context otherwise requires, words used in the singular or in the plural include both the plural and singular and words denoting any gender include all genders. The title and headings of different parts are inserted for convenience and shall not affect the meaning, construction or effect of the Declaration of Trust. In defining or interpreting the powers and duties of the Trust and its Trustees and officers, reference may be made by the Trustees or officers, to the extent appropriate and not inconsistent with the Code or the Maryland REIT Law, to Titles 1 through 3 of the Corporations and Associations Article of the Annotated Code of Maryland. In furtherance and not in limitation of the foregoing, in accordance with the provisions of Title 3, Subtitles 6 and 7, of the Corporations and Associations Article of the Annotated Code of Maryland, the Trust shall be included within the definition of "corporation" for purposes of such provisions.
Construction
Section 13.5 . The Declaration of Trust and any articles of amendment hereto or articles supplementary hereto shall be filed for record with the SDAT and may also be filed or recorded in such other places as the Trustees deem appropriate, but failure to file for record the Declaration of Trust or any articles of amendment hereto in any office other than in the State of Maryland shall not affect or impair the validity or effectiveness of the Declaration of Trust or any amendment hereto. A restated Declaration of Trust shall, upon filing, be conclusive evidence of all amendments contained therein and may thereafter be referred to in lieu of the original Declaration of Trust and the various articles of amendments thereto.
Recordation
 
THIRD: The amendment to and restatement of the Declaration of Trust of the Trust as hereinabove set forth have been duly advised by the Board of Trustees and approved by the shareholders of the Trust as required by law.
FOURTH: The total number of shares of beneficial interest which the Trust had authority to issue immediately prior to this amendment and restatement was 3,000, consisting of 1,000 Common Shares, $.10 par value per share, 1,000 Preferred Shares, $.01 par value per share and 1,000 Equity Shares, $.01 par value per share. The aggregate par value of all shares of beneficial interest having par value was $120.
FIFTH: The total number of shares of beneficial interest which the Trust has authority to issue pursuant to the foregoing amendment and restatement of the Declaration of Trust is 850,000,000 shares, consisting of 650,000,000 Common Shares, $0.10 par value per share, 100,000,000 Preferred Shares, $.01 par value per share and 100,000,000 Equity Shares, $.01 par value per share. The aggregate par value of all authorized shares of beneficial interest having par value is $67,000,000.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, these Articles of Amendment and Restatement of Declaration of Trust have been executed on this 30th day of May, 2007 by the undersigned, who acknowledge that to the best of their knowledge, information, and belief, the matters and facts set forth herein are true in all material respects and that this statement is made under the penalties for perjury.
 
 
 

Exhibit 3.2
The following constitutes the Bylaws of Public Storage, a Maryland real estate investment trust (the "Trust"):
Section 1. . For the purpose of these bylaws:
DEFINITIONS
(a) "bylaws" shall mean these bylaws as amended, restated or modified from time to time. References in these bylaws to "hereof", "herein" and "hereunder" shall be deemed to refer to these bylaws and shall not be limited to the particular article or section in which such words appear.
(b) "electronic transmission by the Trust" shall mean a communication (i) delivered by (A) facsimile telecommunication or electronic mail when directed to the facsimile number or electronic mail address, respectively, for that recipient on record with the Trust, (B) posting on an electronic message board or network which the Trust has designated for those communications, together with a separate notice to the recipient of the posting, which transmission shall be validly delivered upon the later of the posting or delivery of the separate notice thereof, or (C) other means of electronic communication, (ii) to a recipient who has provided an unrevoked consent to the use of those means of transmission for communications, and (iii) that creates a record that is capable of retention, retrieval, and review, and that may thereafter be rendered into clearly legible tangible form. The transmission must also satisfy the requirements applicable to consumer consent to electronic records set forth in the Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act.
(c) "electronic transmission to the Trust" shall mean a communication (i) delivered by (A) facsimile telecommunication or electronic mail when directed to the facsimile number or electronic mail address, respectively, which the Trust has provided from time to time to shareholders and directors for sending communications to the Trust, (B) posting on an electronic message board or network which the Trust has designated for those communications, and which transmission shall be validly delivered upon the posting, or (C) other means of electronic communication, (ii) as to which the Trust has placed in effect reasonable measures to verify that the sender is the shareholder (in person or by proxy) or director purporting to send the transmission, and (iii) that creates a record that is capable of retention, retrieval, and review, and that may thereafter be rendered into clearly legible tangible form.
Section 2. . Whenever a term is defined in these bylaws in the singular, the plural of such term may also be used in these bylaws as a defined term and, similarly, whenever a term is defined in the plural, the singular of such term may also be used as a defined term hereunder. Whenever the masculine gender is used in these bylaws, the feminine and the neuter may also be used hereunder.
USAGE
Section 1. . The principal office of the Trust shall be located at such place or places as the board of trustees of the Trust (the "Board of Trustees") may designate.
PRINCIPAL OFFICE
Section 2. . The Trust may have additional offices at such places as the Board of Trustees may from time to time determine or the business of the Trust may require.
ADDITIONAL OFFICES
Section 1. . All meetings of shareholders shall be held at the principal office of the Trust or at such other place within the United States as shall be set by the Board of Trustees and stated in the notice of the meeting. If authorized by the Board of Trustees, and subject to applicable provisions of Maryland law and any guidelines and procedures that the Board of Trustees may adopt, shareholders not physically present in person or by proxy at a
PLACE
meeting of shareholders may, by electronic transmission by and to the Trust or by electronic video screen communication, participate in a meeting of shareholders, be deemed present in person or by proxy, and vote at a meeting of shareholders whether that meeting is to be held at a designated place or in whole or in part by means of electronic transmission by and to the Trust or by electronic video screen communication.
Section 2. . An annual meeting of the shareholders for the election of trustees (the "Trustees") and the transaction of any business within the powers of the Trust shall be held each year on a date and at a time designated by the Board of Trustees, beginning with the year 2008. The date so designated shall be after delivery of the annual report and within fifteen (15) months after the last annual meeting. Failure to hold an annual meeting does not invalidate the Trust's existence or affect any otherwise valid acts of the Trust.
ANNUAL MEETING
Section 3. . A special meeting of the shareholders may be called at any time by the Board of Trustees, or by the chairman of the board, or by the president, or by one or more shareholders holding shares in the aggregate entitled to cast not less than 20% of the votes at that meeting.
SPECIAL MEETINGS
If a special meeting is called by any person or persons other than the Board of Trustees, the chairman of the board or the president, the request shall be in writing, specifying the time of such meeting and the general nature of the business proposed to be transacted, and shall be delivered personally or sent by registered mail or by electronic transmission to the chairman of the board, the president, any vice president, or the secretary of the Trust. The officer receiving the request shall cause notice to be promptly given to the shareholders entitled to vote, in accordance with the provisions of Sections 4 and 5 of this Article III. Nothing contained in this paragraph of this Section 3 shall be construed as limiting, fixing or affecting the time when a meeting of shareholders called by action of the Board of Trustees may be held.
The Board of Trustees shall have the sole power to fix the record date for determining shareholders entitled to request a special meeting of shareholders and the date, time and place of the special meeting.
Section 4. . Subject to applicable provisions of Maryland law, a meeting of the shareholders may be conducted, in whole or in part, by electronic transmission by and to the Trust or by electronic video screen communication (a) if the Trust implements reasonable measures to provide shareholders (in person or by proxy) a reasonable opportunity to participate in the meeting and to vote on matters submitted to the shareholders, including an opportunity to read or hear the proceedings of the meeting concurrently with those proceedings, and (b) if any shareholder votes or takes other action at the meeting by means of electronic transmission to the Trust or electronic video screen communication, a record of that vote or action is maintained by the Trust. Any request by the Trust to a shareholder for consent to conduct a meeting of shareholders by electronic transmission by and to the Trust, shall include a notice that, absent consent of the shareholder, the meeting shall be held at a physical location in accordance with Section 1 of this Article III.
ANNUAL OR SPECIAL MEETING BY ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION
Section 5. . Not less than ten nor more than 90 days before each meeting of shareholders, the secretary shall give to each shareholder entitled to vote at such meeting and to each shareholder not entitled to vote who is entitled to notice of the meeting written or printed notice stating the time and place of the meeting and, in the case of a special meeting or as otherwise may be required by any statute, the purpose for which the meeting is called, either by mail, by presenting it to such shareholder personally, by leaving it at his or her residence or usual place of business, or by transmitting it to such shareholder by electronic mail to any electronic mail address of such shareholder or through any other electronic transmission by the Trust. Such notice shall be deemed to be given (a) if mailed, when deposited in the United States mail addressed to the shareholder at his or her post office address as it appears on the records of the Trust, with postage thereon prepaid, or (b) when sent by electronic transmission by the Trust or sent by other means of written communication.
NOTICE
Notice given by electronic transmission by the Trust shall be valid only if it complies with the procedures set forth in Section 1(b) of Article I and as long as neither of the following has occurred: (a) the Trust is unable to deliver two consecutive notices to the shareholder by that means, or (b) the inability to so deliver the notices to the shareholder becomes known to the secretary, any assistant secretary, the transfer agent or other person responsible for the giving of the notice.
 
An affidavit of the mailing or electronic transmission by the Trust or other means of giving any notice of any shareholders' meeting shall be executed by the secretary, assistant secretary or any transfer agent of the Trust giving the notice, and shall be filed and maintained in the minute book of the Trust.
Section 6. . Any business of the Trust may be transacted at an annual meeting of shareholders without being specifically designated in the notice, except such business as is required by any statute to be stated in such notice. No business shall be transacted at a special meeting of shareholders except as specifically designated in the notice.
SCOPE OF NOTICE
Section 7. At every meeting of the shareholders, the chairman of the board, if there be one, shall conduct the meeting or, in the case of vacancy in office or absence of the chairman of the board, one of the following officers present shall conduct the meeting in the order stated: the vice chairman of the board, if there be one, the president, the vice presidents in their order of rank and seniority, or a chairman chosen by the shareholders entitled to cast a majority of the votes which all shareholders present in person or by proxy are entitled to cast, shall act as chairman, and the secretary, or, in his or her absence, an assistant secretary, or in the absence of both the secretary and assistant secretaries, a person appointed by the chairman shall act as secretary.
ORGANIZATION AND CONDUCT.
The order of business and all other matters of procedure at any meeting of shareholders shall be determined by the chairman of the meeting. The chairman of the meeting may prescribe such rules, regulations and procedures and take such action as, in the discretion of such chairman, are appropriate for the proper conduct of the meeting, including, without limitation, (a) restricting admission to the time set for the commencement of the meeting; (b) limiting attendance at the meeting to shareholders of record of the Trust, their duly authorized proxies or other such persons as the chairman of the meeting may determine; (c) limiting participation at the meeting on any matter to shareholders of record of the Trust entitled to vote on such matter, their duly authorized proxies or other such persons as the chairman of the meeting may determine; (d) limiting the time allotted to questions or comments by participants; (e) maintaining order and security at the meeting; (f) removing any shareholder or any other person who refuses to comply with meeting procedures, rules or guidelines as set forth by the chairman of the meeting; and (g) recessing or adjourning the meeting to a later date and time and place announced at the meeting. Unless otherwise determined by the chairman of the meeting, meetings of shareholders shall not be required to be held in accordance with the rules of parliamentary procedure.
Section 8. . At any meeting of shareholders, the presence in person or by proxy of shareholders entitled to cast a majority of all the votes entitled to be cast at such meeting shall constitute a quorum; but this section shall not affect any requirement under any statute or the Declaration of Trust, as amended, restated or supplemented from time to time (the "Declaration of Trust") for the vote necessary for the adoption of any measure. If, however, such quorum shall not be present at any meeting of the shareholders, the shareholders entitled to vote at such meeting, present in person or by proxy, shall have the power to adjourn the meeting from time to time to a date not more than 120 days after the original record date without a new record date and without notice other than announcement at the meeting. At such adjourned meeting at which a quorum shall be present, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally notified.
QUORUM
Section 9. . A plurality of all the votes cast at a meeting of shareholders duly called and at which a quorum is present shall be sufficient to elect a Trustee. A majority of the votes cast at a meeting of shareholders duly called and at which a quorum is present shall be sufficient to approve any other matter which may properly come before the meeting, unless a higher vote is required herein or by statute or by the Declaration of Trust. Unless otherwise provided in the Declaration of Trust, each outstanding share entitled to vote, regardless of class, shall be entitled to one vote on all matters presented to shareholders for a vote, except that shareholders shall have cumulative voting rights with respect to the election of Trustees.
VOTING
Section 10. . A shareholder may cast the votes entitled to be cast by the shares owned of record by him or her either in person or by proxy by the shareholder or by his or her duly authorized agent or attorney-in-fact by a written authorization signed or an electronic transmission to the Trust or in any other manner permitted by law. Such proxy shall be filed with the secretary of the Trust before or at the time of the meeting. A proxy shall be deemed signed if the shareholder's name or other authorization is placed on the proxy (whether by manual signature, typewriting, transmission or otherwise in accordance with Maryland law) by the shareholder or the shareholder's attorney-in-fact. A validly executed proxy which does not state that it is irrevocable shall continue in full force and effect unless (a) revoked by the person executing it, before the vote pursuant to that proxy, by a writing delivered to
PROXIES
 
the Trust stating that the proxy is revoked, or by a subsequent proxy executed by, or attendance at the meeting and voting in person by, the person executing the proxy; or (b) written notice of the death or incapacity of the maker of that proxy is received by the Trust before the vote pursuant to that proxy is counted; provided, however, that no proxy shall be valid after the expiration of eleven (11) months from the date of the proxy unless otherwise provided in the proxy.
Section 11. . Shares of the Trust registered in the name of a corporation, partnership, trust or other entity, if entitled to be voted, may be voted by the president or a vice president, a general partner or trustee thereof, as the case may be, or a proxy appointed by any of the foregoing individuals, unless some other person who has been appointed to vote such shares pursuant to a bylaw or a resolution of the governing board of such corporation or other entity or agreement of the partners of the partnership presents a certified copy of such bylaw, resolution or agreement, in which case such person may vote such shares. Any trustee or other fiduciary may vote shares registered in his or her name as such fiduciary, either in person or by proxy.
VOTING OF SHARES BY CERTAIN HOLDERS
Shares of the Trust directly or indirectly owned by it shall not be voted at any meeting and shall not be counted in determining the total number of outstanding shares entitled to be voted at any given time, unless they are held in a fiduciary capacity, in which case they may be voted and shall be counted in determining the total number of outstanding shares at any given time.
The Board of Trustees may adopt by resolution a procedure by which a shareholder may certify in writing to the Trust that any shares registered in the name of the shareholder are held for the account of a specified person other than the shareholder. The resolution shall set forth the class of shareholders who may make the certification, the purpose for which the certification may be made, the form of certification and the information to be contained in it; if the certification is with respect to a record date or closing of the share transfer books, the time after the record date or closing of the share transfer books within which the certification must be received by the Trust; and any other provisions with respect to the procedure which the Board of Trustees considers necessary or desirable. On receipt of such certification, the person specified in the certification shall be regarded as, for the purposes set forth in the certification, the shareholder of record of the specified shares in place of the shareholder who makes the certification.
Section 12. . At any meeting of shareholders, the chairman of the meeting may, or upon the request of any shareholder shall, appoint one or more persons as inspectors for such meeting. Such inspectors shall ascertain and report the number of shares represented at the meeting based upon their determination of the validity and effect of proxies, count all votes, report the results and perform such other acts as are proper to conduct the election and voting with impartiality and fairness to all the shareholders. In case any person who may be appointed as an inspector fails to appear or act, the vacancy may be filled by appointment made by the Board of Trustees in advance of the meeting or at the meeting by the chairman of the meeting.
INSPECTORS
Each report of an inspector shall be in writing and signed by him or her or by a majority of them if there is more than one inspector acting at such meeting. If there is more than one inspector, the report of a majority shall be the report of the inspectors. The report of the inspector or inspectors on the number of shares represented at the meeting and the results of the voting shall be evidence thereof.
prima facie
Section 13. .
ADVANCE NOTICE OF SHAREHOLDER NOMINEES FOR TRUSTEE AND OTHER PROPOSALS BY SHAREHOLDERS
(a) Annual Meetings of Shareholders.
(1) At an annual meeting of shareholders, only such business shall be conducted as shall have been properly brought before the meeting. To be properly brought before an annual meeting, business must be (i) specified in the notice of annual meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by or at the direction of the Board of Trustees, (ii) otherwise properly brought before the annual meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Trustees, or (iii) otherwise properly brought before the annual meeting by a shareholder who is a shareholder of record at the time such notice is delivered to the Trust and who is a shareholder at the time of the annual meeting, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and who complied with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 13(a).
 
(2) For nominations for election to the Board of Trustees (other than a person nominated by or at the election of the Board of Trustees) or other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a shareholder pursuant to clause (iii) of paragraph (a)(1) of this Section 13, the shareholder must have given timely and proper notice thereof in writing to the secretary of the Trust and such other business must otherwise be a proper matter for action by shareholders. To be timely, a shareholder's notice must be delivered to or mailed and received by the secretary at the principal executive office of the Trust by not later than the close of business on the 90th day prior to the first anniversary of the date of mailing of the notice for the preceding year's annual meeting nor earlier than the close of business on the 120th day prior to the first anniversary of the date of mailing of the notice for the preceding year's annual meeting; provided, however, that in the event that the date of the mailing of the notice for the annual meeting is advanced or delayed by more than 30 days from the first anniversary of the date of the mailing of the notice for the preceding year's annual meeting, notice by the shareholder to be timely must be so delivered not earlier than the close of business on the 120th day prior to the date of mailing of the notice for such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to the date of mailing of the notice for such annual meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement of the date of mailing of the notice for such meeting is first made by the Trust. In no event shall the public announcement of a postponement of an annual meeting to a later date or time commence a new time period for the giving of a shareholder's notice as described above. Such shareholder's notice shall set forth (i) as to each person whom the shareholder proposes to nominate for election or reelection as a trustee (A) the name, age, business address and residence address of such person, (B) the class and number of shares of beneficial interest of the Trust that are beneficially owned or owned of record by such person and (C) all other information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of Trustees in an election contest (even if an election contest is not involved), or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A (or any successor provision) under the Exchange Act (including such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a trustee if elected); (ii) as to any other business that the shareholder proposes to bring before the meeting, a description in reasonable detail of the business desired to be brought before the meeting (including the text of any resolutions proposed for consideration), the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material interest in such business of such shareholder (including any anticipated benefit to the shareholder therefrom) and of each beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made; and (iii) as to the shareholder giving the notice and each beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made, (x) the name and address of such shareholder, as they appear on the Trust's share ledger and current name and address, if different, of such beneficial owner, and (y) the class and number of shares of each class of beneficial interest of the Trust which are owned beneficially and of record by such shareholder and owned beneficially by such beneficial owner.
(3) Notwithstanding anything in this subsection(a) of this Section 13 to the contrary, in the event that the number of Trustees to be elected to the Board of Trustees is increased and there is no public announcement by the Trust of such action or specifying the size of the increased Board of Trustees at least 100 days prior to the first anniversary of the date of mailing of the notice of the preceding year's annual meeting, a shareholder's notice required by this Section 13(a) shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for any new positions created by such increase, if the notice is delivered to the secretary at the principal executive offices of the Trust not later than the close of business on the 10th day immediately following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the Trust.
(4) The foregoing requirements in this Section 13 for proposals for other business to be conducted at an annual meeting shall be deemed satisfied by a shareholder if the shareholder has notified the Trust of his intention to present a proposal at an annual meeting in compliance with the applicable rules and regulations promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and such shareholder's proposal has been included in a proxy statement that has been prepared by the Trust to solicit proxies for such annual meeting.
(5) For the purposes of this Section 13, "public announcement" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Trust with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Sections 13, 14 or 15 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
(b) General.
(1) Upon written request by the secretary or the Board of Trustees or any committee thereof, any shareholder proposing a nominee for election as a Trustee or any proposal for other business at a meeting of shareholders shall provide, within five business days of delivery of such request (or such other period as may be specified in such request), written verification, satisfactory to the secretary or the Board of Trustees or any committee thereof, in his, her or its sole discretion, of the accuracy of any information submitted by the shareholder pursuant to this Section 13. If a shareholder fails to provide such written verification within such period, the secretary or the Board of Trustees or any committee thereof may treat the information as to which written verification was requested as not having been provided in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 13.
(2) Only such persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 13 shall be eligible to serve as Trustees, and only such business shall be conducted at a meeting of shareholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 13. The chairman of the meeting shall have the power and duty to determine whether a nomination or any other business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made or proposed, as the case may be, in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 13 and, if any proposed nomination or other business is not in compliance with this Section 13, to declare that such defective nomination or proposal be disregarded.
(3) For purposes of this Section 13, (a) the "date of mailing of the notice" shall mean the date of the proxy statement for the solicitation of proxies for election of Trustees and (b) "public announcement" shall mean disclosure (i) in a press release either transmitted to the principal securities exchange on which the Trust's common shares are traded or reported by a recognized news service or (ii) in a document publicly filed by the Trust with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
(4) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 13, a shareholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of state law and of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this Section 13. Nothing in this Section 13 shall be deemed to affect any right of a shareholder to request inclusion of a proposal in, nor the right of the Trust to omit a proposal from, the Trust's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 (or any successor provision) under the Exchange Act.
Section 14. . Any action required or permitted to be taken at a meeting of shareholders may be taken without a meeting if a consent in writing, setting forth such action, is signed by each shareholder entitled to vote on the matter and any other shareholder entitled to notice of a meeting of shareholders (but not to vote thereat) has waived in writing any right to dissent from such action, and such consent and waiver are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the shareholders.
SHAREHOLDER ACTION BY WRITTEN CONSENT WITHOUT A MEETING
Section 15. . Voting on any question or in any election may be by voice unless the presiding officer shall order or any shareholder shall demand that voting be by ballot.
VOTING BY BALLOT
Section 16. . The Trust elects not to be bound by Subtitle 7 of Title 3 of the Corporations and Associations Article of the Annotated Code of Maryland.
CONTROL SHARE ACQUISITION ACT
Section 1. . The business and affairs of the Trust shall be managed under the direction of its Board of Trustees. A Trustee shall be an individual at least 21 years of age who is not under legal disability. In case of failure to elect Trustees at an annual meeting of the shareholders, the Trustees holding over shall continue to direct the management of the business and affairs of the Trust until their successors are elected and qualified.
GENERAL POWERS; QUALIFICATIONS; TRUSTEES HOLDING OVER
Section 2. . At any regular meeting or at any special meeting called for that purpose, a majority of the entire Board of Trustees may establish, increase or decrease the number of Trustees, subject to any limitations in the Declaration of Trust. At least a majority of the Board of Trustees shall be trustees
NUMBER AND INDEPENDENCE
 
whom the board has determined are "independent" under the standards established by the Board of Trustees and in accordance with the then applicable requirements of the New York Stock Exchange.
Section 3. . An annual meeting of the Board of Trustees shall be held immediately after and at the same place as the annual meeting of shareholders, no notice other than this Bylaw being necessary. The Board of Trustees may provide, by resolution, the time and place, either within or without the State of Maryland, for the holding of regular meetings of the Board of Trustees without other notice than such resolution.
ANNUAL AND REGULAR MEETINGS
Section 4. . Special meetings of the Board of Trustees may be called by or at the request of the chairman of the board, the chief executive officer or the president or by a majority of the Trustees then in office. The person or persons authorized to call special meetings of the Board of Trustees may fix any place, either within or without the State of Maryland, as the place for holding any special meeting of the Board of Trustees called by them.
SPECIAL MEETINGS
Section 5. . Notice of any special meeting shall be given by written notice delivered personally, by electronic transmission by the Trust, mailed or couriered to each Trustee at his or her business or residence address. Personally delivered or telegraphed notices shall be given at least two days prior to the meeting. Notice by mail shall be given at least five days prior to the meeting. Notice by telephone or electronic transmission by the Trust shall be given at least 24 hours prior to the meeting. If mailed, such notice shall be deemed to be given when deposited in the United States mail properly addressed, with postage thereon prepaid. If given by telegram, such notice shall be deemed to be given when the telegram is delivered to the telegraph company. Telephone notice shall be deemed given when the Trustee is personally given such notice in a telephone call to which he or she is a party. Electronic mail notice shall be deemed to be given upon transmission of the message to the electronic mail address given to the Trust by the Trustee. Facsimile-transmission notice shall be deemed given upon completion of the transmission of the message to the number given to the Trust by the Trustee and receipt of a completed answer-back indicating receipt. Notice by courier shall be deemed to be given when deposited with or delivered to a courier properly addressed. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any annual, regular or special meeting of the Board of Trustees need be stated in the notice, unless specifically required by statute or these Bylaws.
NOTICE
Section 6. . A majority of the Board of Trustees shall constitute a quorum for transaction of business at any meeting of the Board of Trustees, provided that, if less than a majority of such Trustees are present at said meeting, a majority of the Trustees present may adjourn the meeting from time to time without further notice, and provided further that if, pursuant to the Declaration of Trust or these Bylaws, the vote of a majority of a particular group of Trustees is required for action, a quorum must also include a majority of such group.
QUORUM
The Trustees present at a meeting which has been duly called and convened may continue to transact business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough Trustees to leave less than a quorum.
Section 7. . The action of the majority of the Trustees present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the action of the Board of Trustees, unless the concurrence of a greater proportion is required for such action by applicable statute.
VOTING
Section 8. . Trustees may participate in a meeting by means of a conference telephone, by electronic video screen communication or similar communications equipment if all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other at the same time. Participation in a meeting by these means shall constitute presence in person at the meeting.
TELEPHONE MEETINGS
Section 9. . The business transacted at any meeting of the board of directors, however called and noticed or wherever held, shall be as valid as though had at a meeting duly held after regular call and notice if a quorum is present and if, either before or after the meeting, each of the directors not present or who though present has prior to the meeting or at its commencement protested the lack of proper notice to him, signs a written waiver of notice, a consent to holding the meeting or an approval of the minutes. The waiver of notice or consent need not specify the purpose of the meeting. All such waivers, consents and approvals shall be filed with the corporate records or made a part of the minutes of the meeting.
WAIVER OF NOTICE
Section 10. . Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Trustees may be taken without a meeting, if a consent in writing to such action is
ACTION BY TRUSTEES WITHOUT A MEETING
 
signed or submitted by electronic transmission to the Trust by each Trustee and such written consent is filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board of Trustees.
Section 11. . At each meeting of the Board of Trustees, the chairman of the Board of Trustees or, in the absence of the chairman, the vice chairman, if any, of the Board of Trustees, if any, shall act as chairman. In the absence of both the chairman and vice chairman of the Board of Trustees, the chief executive officer or in the absence of the chief executive officer, the president or in the absence of the president, a director chosen by a majority of the Trustees present, shall act as chairman. The secretary or, in his or her absence, an assistant secretary of the Trust, or in the absence of the secretary and all assistant secretaries, a person appointed by the chairman, shall act as secretary of the meeting.
ORGANIZATION
Section 12. . If for any reason any or all the Trustees cease to be Trustees, such event shall not terminate the Trust, or affect these Bylaws or the powers of the remaining Trustees hereunder (even if fewer than a quorum of Trustees remain). Any vacancy (including a vacancy created by an increase in the number of Trustees) shall be filled, at any regular meeting or at any special meeting called for that purpose, by a majority of the Trustees, even if the remaining Trustees do not constitute a quorum. Any individual so elected as Trustee shall hold office for the unexpired term of the Trustee he or she is replacing and until a successor is elected and qualified.
VACANCIES
Section 13. . Trustees shall not receive any stated salary for their services as Trustees but, by resolution of the Board of Trustees or a duly authorized committee thereof, may receive compensation per year and/or per meeting and for any service or activity they performed or engaged in as Trustees. Trustees may be reimbursed for expenses of attendance, if any, at each annual, regular or special meeting of the Board of Trustees or of any committee thereof; and for their expenses, if any, in connection with any service or activity performed or engaged in as Trustees; but nothing herein contained shall be construed to preclude any Trustees from serving the Trust in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor.
COMPENSATION
Section 14. . The shareholders may remove any Trustee in the manner provided in the Declaration of Trust.
REMOVAL OF TRUSTEES
Section 15. . Each Trustee, officer, employee and agent of the Trust shall, in the performance of his or her duties with respect to the Trust, be fully justified and protected with regard to any act or failure to act in reliance in good faith upon the books of account or other records of the Trust, upon an opinion of counsel or upon reports made to the Trust by any of its officers or employees or by the adviser, accountants, appraisers or other experts or consultants selected by the Trustees or officers of the Trust, regardless of whether such counsel or expert may also be a Trustee.
RELIANCE
Section 16. . Section 2-419 of the Maryland General Corporation Law (the "MGCL") shall be available for and apply to any contract or other transaction between the Trust and any of its Trustees or between the Trust and any other trust, corporation, firm or other entity in which any of its Trustees is a trustee or director or has a material financial interest.
INTERESTED TRUSTEE TRANSACTIONS
Section 1. . The Board of Trustees may appoint from among its members an Audit Committee, a Compensation Committee, a Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, and other committees, composed of one or more Trustees, to serve at the pleasure of the Board of Trustees.
NUMBER, TENURE AND QUALIFICATIONS
Section 2. . The Board of Trustees may delegate to committees appointed under Section 1 of this Article any of the powers of the Trustees, except as prohibited by law.
POWERS
Section 3. . In the absence of any member of any such committee, the members thereof present at any meeting, whether or not they constitute a quorum, may appoint another Trustee to act in the place of such absent member provided that such Trustee meets the requirements of such committee. Notice of committee meetings shall be given in the same manner as notice for special meetings of the Board of Trustees. Each committee shall keep minutes of its proceedings and shall report the same to the Board of Trustees at the next succeeding meeting, and
MEETINGS
 
any action by the committee shall be subject to revision and alteration by the Board of Trustees, provided that no rights of third persons shall be affected by any such revision or alteration.
Section 4. . A majority of the members of any committee shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at a committee meeting, and the act of a majority present shall be the act of such committee. The Board of Trustees, or the members of a committee to which such power has been duly delegated by the Board of Trustees, may designate a chairman of any committee, and such chairman or any two members of any committee may fix the time and place of its meetings unless the Board of Trustees shall otherwise provide.
QUORUM
Section 5. . Members of a committee of the Board of Trustees may participate in a meeting by means of a conference telephone, electronic video screen communication or similar communications equipment if all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other at the same time. Participation in a meeting by these means shall constitute presence in person at the meeting.
TELEPHONE MEETINGS
Section 6. . Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of a committee of the Board of Trustees may be taken without a meeting, if a consent in writing to such action is signed or submitted by electronic transmission to the Trust by each member of the committee and such written consent is filed with the minutes of proceedings of such committee.
INFORMAL ACTION BY COMMITTEES
Section 7. . Subject to the provisions hereof, the Board of Trustees shall have the power at any time to change the membership of any committee, to fill all vacancies, to designate alternate members to replace any absent or disqualified member or to dissolve any such committee.
VACANCIES, REMOVAL AND DISSOLUTION
Section 1. . The officers of the Trust shall include a president, a secretary and a chief financial officer. The Trust may also have, at the discretion of the Board of Trustees, a chairman of the board, one or more vice presidents, a treasurer, one or more assistant secretaries, one or more assistant treasurers and such other officers as may be appointed in accordance with the provisions of Section 3 of this Article VI. If there is a treasurer, he shall be the chief financial officer unless some other person is so appointed by the board of directors. Any number of offices may be held by the same person. The officers of the Trust shall be elected annually by the Board of Trustees at the first meeting of the Board of Trustees held after each annual meeting of shareholders, except that the chief executive officer or the president may appoint one or more vice presidents. If the election of officers shall not be held at such meeting, such election shall be held as soon thereafter as may be convenient. Each officer shall hold office until his or her successor is elected and qualified or until his or her death, resignation or removal in the manner hereinafter provided. Any two or more offices except president and vice president may be held by the same person. In their discretion, the Trustees may leave unfilled any office. Election of an officer or agent shall not of itself create contract rights between the Trust and such officer or agent.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section 2. . Any officer or agent of the Trust may be removed by the Board of Trustees if in its judgment the best interests of the Trust would be served thereby, but such removal shall be without prejudice to the contract rights, if any, of the person so removed. Any officer of the Trust may resign at any time by giving written notice of his or her resignation to the Trustees, the chairman of the board, the president or the secretary. Any resignation shall take effect at any time subsequent to the time specified therein or, if the time when it shall become effective is not specified therein, immediately upon its receipt. The acceptance of a resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective unless otherwise stated in the resignation. Such resignation shall be without prejudice to the contract rights, if any, of the Trust.
REMOVAL AND RESIGNATION
Section 3. . The Board of Trustees may appoint, and may empower the chairman of the board or president to appoint, such other officers as the business of the Trust may require, each of whom shall hold office for such period, have such authority and perform such duties as are provided in the bylaws or as the Board of Trustees may from time to time determine.
SUBORDINATE OFFICERS
Section 4. . A vacancy in any office may be filled by the Board of Trustees for the balance of the term.
VACANCIES
 
Section 5. . The chairman of the board, if such an officer be elected, shall, if present, preside at meetings of the Board of Trustees and meetings of the shareholders and shall exercise such other powers and perform such other duties as may be from time to time assigned to him by the Board of Trustees or prescribed by the bylaws. If there is no president, the chairman of the board shall in addition be the chief executive officer of the Trust and shall have the powers and duties prescribed in Section 7 of this Article VI. The chief executive officer of the Trust shall be such officer of the trust as may be determined by the Board of Trustees.
CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD
Section 6. . The Board of Trustees may designate a chief executive officer. The chief executive officer shall have responsibility for implementation of the policies of the Trust, as determined by the Board of Trustees, and for the administration of the business affairs of the Trust. In the absence of the chairman of the board, the chief executive officer shall preside over the meetings of the Board of Trustees and of the shareholders at which he or she shall be present.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
Section 7. . Subject to such supervisory powers, if any, as may be given by the Board of Trustees to the chairman of the board, if there be such an officer, the president shall, subject to the control of the Board of Trustees, have the powers of general supervision, direction and control of the business and the officers of the Trust. In the absence of the chairman of the board, or if there be none, he shall preside at all meetings of the shareholders and at all meetings of the Board of Trustees. He shall have the general powers and duties of management usually vested in the office of president of a Trust and shall have such other powers and duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Trustees or the bylaws. The chief executive officer of the Trust shall be such officer of the trust as may be determined by the Board of Trustees.
PRESIDENT
Section 8. . In the absence or disability of the president, the vice presidents, if any, in order of their rank as fixed by the Board of Trustees or, if not ranked, a vice president designated by the Board of Trustees, shall perform all the duties of the president, and when so acting shall have all the powers of, and be subject to all the restrictions upon, the president. The vice presidents shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as from time to time may be prescribed for them respectively by the Board of Trustees or the bylaws and the president or the chairman of the board, if any.
VICE PRESIDENTS
Section 9. . The secretary shall keep or cause to be kept, at the principal executive office or such other place as the Board of Trustees may direct, a book of minutes of all meetings and actions of Trustees, committees of Trustees and shareholders, with the time and place of holding, whether regular or special and, if special, how authorized, the notice given, the names of those present at Trustees' meetings or committee meetings, the number of shares present or represented at shareholders' meetings and the proceedings. The secretary shall keep, or cause to be kept, at the principal executive office or at the office of the Trust's transfer agent or registrar, as determined by resolution of the Board of Trustees, a share register, or a duplicate share register, showing the names of all shareholders and their addresses, the number and classes of shares held by each, the number and date of certificates issued for the same, and the number and date of cancellation of every certificate surrendered for cancellation. The secretary shall give, or cause to be given, notice of all meetings of the shareholders and of the Board of Trustees required by the bylaws or by law to be given, and he shall keep the seal of the Trust if one be adopted, in safe custody, and shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Trustees or by the bylaws.
SECRETARY
Section 10. . The chief financial officer shall keep and maintain, or cause to be kept and maintained, adequate and correct books and records of accounts of the properties and business transactions of the Trust, including accounts of its assets, liabilities, receipts, disbursements, gains, losses, capital, retained earnings and shares. The books of account shall at all reasonable times be open to inspection by any Trustee. The chief financial officer shall deposit all moneys and other valuables in the name and to the credit of the Trust with such depositaries as may be designated by the Board of Trustees. He shall disburse the funds of the Trust as may be ordered by the Board of Trustees, shall render to the president and Trustees, whenever they request it, an account of all of his transactions as chief financial officer and of the financial condition of the Trust, and shall have other powers and perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Trustees or the bylaws.
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
Section 11. . The salaries and other compensation of the officers shall be fixed from time to time by the Board of Trustees, the chief executive officer or the president and no officer shall be prevented from receiving such salary or other compensation by reason of the fact that he or she is also a Trustee.
SALARIES
 
Section 1. . The Board of Trustees may authorize any officer or agent to enter into any contract or to execute and deliver any instrument in the name of and on behalf of the Trust and such authority may be general or confined to specific instances. Any agreement, deed, mortgage, lease or other document executed by one or more of the Trustees or by an authorized person shall be valid and binding upon the Board of Trustees and upon the Trust.
CONTRACTS
Section 2. . All checks, drafts or other orders for the payment of money, notes or other evidences of indebtedness issued in the name of the Trust shall be signed by such officer or agent of the Trust in such manner as shall from time to time be determined by the Board of Trustees.
CHECKS AND DRAFTS
Section 3. . All funds of the Trust not otherwise employed shall be deposited from time to time to the credit of the Trust in such banks, trust companies or other depositories as the Board of Trustees may designate.
DEPOSITS
Section 1. . Unless the Board of Trustees of the Trust authorizes the issue of some or all of the shares of any or all of its classes or series without certificates, each shareholder shall be entitled to a certificate or certificates which shall evidence and certify the number of shares of each class of beneficial interests held by him or her in the Trust. Each certificate shall be signed by the chief executive officer, the president or a vice president and countersigned by the secretary or an assistant secretary or the treasurer or an assistant treasurer and may be sealed with the seal, if any, of the Trust. The signatures may be either manual or facsimile. Certificates shall be consecutively numbered; and if the Trust shall, from time to time, issue several classes of shares, each class may have its own number series. A certificate is valid and may be issued whether or not an officer who signed it is still an officer when it is issued. Each certificate representing shares which are restricted as to their transferability or voting powers, which are preferred or limited as to their dividends or as to their allocable portion of the assets upon liquidation or which are redeemable at the option of the Trust, shall have a statement of such restriction, limitation, preference or redemption provision, or a summary thereof, plainly stated on the certificate. In lieu of such statement or summary, the Trust may set forth upon the face or back of the certificate a statement that the Trust will furnish to any shareholder, upon request and without charge, a full statement of such information. At the time of issue or transfer of shares without certificates, the Trust shall send the shareholder a written statement of the information required on certificates by Section 8-203 of Title 8 of the Corporations and Associations Article of the Annotated Code of Maryland.
CERTIFICATES
Section 2. . Certificates shall be treated as negotiable and title thereto and to the shares they represent shall be transferred by delivery thereof to the same extent as those of a Maryland stock corporation. Upon surrender to the Trust or the transfer agent of the Trust of a share certificate duly endorsed or accompanied by proper evidence of succession, assignment or authority to transfer, the Trust shall issue a new certificate to the person entitled thereto, cancel the old certificate and record the transaction upon its books.
TRANSFERS
The Trust shall be entitled to treat the holder of record of any share or shares as the holder in fact thereof and, accordingly, shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in such share or shares on the part of any other person, whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof, except as otherwise provided by the laws of the State of Maryland.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, transfers of shares of beneficial interest of the Trust will be subject in all respects to the Declaration of Trust and all of the terms and conditions contained therein.
Section 3. . Any officer designated by the Board of Trustees may direct a new certificate to be issued in place of any certificate previously issued by the Trust alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed upon the making of an affidavit of that fact by the person claiming the certificate to be lost, stolen or destroyed. When authorizing the issuance of a new certificate, an officer designated by the Board of Trustees may, in his or her discretion and as a condition precedent to the issuance thereof, require the owner of such lost, stolen or destroyed certificate or the owner's legal representative to advertise the same in such manner as he or she shall
REPLACEMENT CERTIFICATE
 
require and/or to give bond, with sufficient surety, to the Trust to indemnify it against any loss or claim which may arise as a result of the issuance of a new certificate.
Section 4. . The Board of Trustees may set, in advance, a record date for the purpose of determining shareholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of shareholders or determining shareholders entitled to receive payment of any dividend or the allotment of any other rights, or in order to make a determination of shareholders for any other proper purpose. Such date, in any case, shall not be prior to the close of business on the day the record date is fixed and shall be not more than 90 days and, in the case of a meeting of shareholders not less than ten days, before the date on which the meeting or particular action requiring such determination of shareholders of record is to be held or taken.
CLOSING OF TRANSFER BOOKS OR FIXING OF RECORD DATE
In lieu of fixing a record date, the Board of Trustees may provide that the share transfer books shall be closed for a stated period but not longer than 20 days. If the share transfer books are closed for the purpose of determining shareholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of shareholders, such books shall be closed for at least ten days before the date of such meeting.
If no record date is fixed and the share transfer books are not closed for the determination of shareholders, (a) the record date for the determination of shareholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of shareholders shall be at the close of business on the day on which the notice of meeting is mailed or the 30th day before the meting, whichever is the closer date to the meeting; and (b) the record date for the determination of shareholders entitled to receive payment of a dividend or an allotment of any other rights shall be the close of business on the day on which the resolution of the Board of Trustees, declaring the dividend or allotment of rights, is adopted.
When a determination of shareholders entitled to vote at any meeting of shareholders has been made as provided in this section, such determination shall apply to any adjournment thereof, except when (i) the determination has been made through the closing of the transfer books and the stated period of closing has expired or (ii) the meeting is adjourned to a date more than 120 days after the record date fixed for the original meeting, in either of which case a new record date shall be determined as set forth herein.
Section 5. . The Trust shall maintain at its principal office or at the office of its counsel, accountants or transfer agent, an original or duplicate share ledger containing the name and address of each shareholder and the number of shares of each class held by such shareholder.
SHARE LEDGER
Section 6. . The Board of Trustees may issue fractional shares or provide for the issuance of scrip, all on such terms and under such conditions as they may determine. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Declaration of Trust or these Bylaws, the Board of Trustees may issue units consisting of different securities of the Trust. Any security issued in a unit shall have the same characteristics as any identical securities issued by the Trust, except that the Board of Trustees may provide that for a specified period securities of the Trust issued in such unit may be transferred to the books of the Trust only in such unit.
FRACTIONAL SHARES; ISSUANCE OF UNITS
The Board of Trustees shall have the power, from time to time, to fix the fiscal year of the Trust by a duly adopted resolution.
Section 1. . Dividends and other distributions upon the shares of beneficial interest of the Trust may be authorized and declared by the Board of Trustees, subject to the provisions of law and the Declaration of Trust. Dividends and other distributions may be paid in cash, property or shares of the Trust, subject to the provisions of law and the Declaration of Trust.
AUTHORIZATION
Section 2. . Before payment of any dividends or other distributions, there may be set aside out of any funds of the Trust available for dividends or other distributions such sum or sums as the Board of Trustees may from time to time, in their absolute discretion, think proper as a reserve fund for contingencies, for
CONTINGENCIES
 
equalizing dividends or other distributions, for repairing or maintaining any property of the Trust or for such other purpose as the Board of Trustees shall determine to be in the best interest of the Trust, and the Board of Trustees may modify or abolish any such reserve in the manner in which it was created.
Section 1. . The Board of Trustees may authorize the adoption of a seal by the Trust. The seal shall have inscribed thereon the name of the Trust and the year of its formation. The Trustees may authorize one or more duplicate seals and provide for the custody thereof.
SEAL
Section 2. . Whenever the Trust is permitted or required to affix its seal to a document, it shall be sufficient to meet the requirements of any law, rule or regulation relating to a seal to place the word "(SEAL)" adjacent to the signature of the person authorized to execute the document on behalf of the Trust.
AFFIXING SEAL
To the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law in effect from time to time, the Trust shall indemnify (a) any Trustee or officer (including among the foregoing, for all purposes of this Article XII and without limitation, any individual who, while a Trustee or officer and at the express request of the Trust, serves or has served another real estate investment trust, corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or any other enterprise as a director, officer, shareholder, partner or trustee of such real estate investment trust, corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise) who has been successful, on the merits or otherwise, in the defense of a proceeding to which he or she was made a party by reason of service in such capacity, against reasonable expenses incurred by him or her in connection with the proceeding, and (b) any Trustee or officer or any former Trustee or officer against any claim or liability to which he or she may become subject by reason of such status unless it is established that (i) his or her act or omission was material to the matter giving rise to the proceeding and was committed in bad faith or was the result of active and deliberate dishonesty, (ii) he or she actually received an improper personal benefit in money, property or services or (iii) in the case of a criminal proceeding, he or she had reasonable cause to believe that his or her act or omission was unlawful. In addition, the Trust shall pay or reimburse, as incurred, in advance of final disposition of a proceeding, reasonable expenses incurred by a Trustee or officer or former Trustee or officer made a party to a proceeding by reason of such status, provided that the Trust shall have received (i) a written affirmation by the Trustee or officer of his or her good faith belief that he or she has met the applicable standard of conduct necessary for indemnification by the Trust as authorized by these Bylaws and (ii) a written undertaking by or on his or her behalf to repay the amount paid or reimbursed by the Trust if it shall ultimately be determined that the applicable standard of conduct was not met. The Trust may, with the approval of its Board of Trustees, provide such indemnification or payment or reimbursement of expenses to any Trustee, officer or shareholder or any former Trustee, officer or shareholder who served a predecessor of the Trust and to any employee or agent of the Trust or a predecessor of the Trust.
Neither the amendment nor repeal of this Article, nor the adoption or amendment of any other provision of the Declaration of Trust or these Bylaws inconsistent with this Article, shall apply to or affect in any respect the applicability of this Article with respect to any act or failure to act which occurred prior to such amendment, repeal or adoption.
Any indemnification or payment or reimbursement of the expenses permitted by these Bylaws shall be furnished in accordance with the procedures provided for indemnification or payment or reimbursement of expenses, as the case may be, under Section 2-418 of the MGCL for directors of Maryland corporations. The Trust may provide to Trustees, officers, employees, agents and shareholders such other and further indemnification or payment or reimbursement of expenses, as the case may be, to the fullest extent permitted by the MGCL, as in effect from time to time, for directors of Maryland corporations.
 
Whenever any notice is required to be given pursuant to the Declaration of Trust or these Bylaws or pursuant to applicable law, a waiver thereof in writing, signed by the person or persons entitled to such notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to the giving of such notice. Neither the business to be transacted at nor the purpose of any meeting need be set forth in the waiver of notice, unless specifically required by statute. The attendance of any person at any meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting, except where such person attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting to the transaction of any business on the ground that the meeting is not lawfully called or convened.
The Board of Trustees shall have the exclusive power to adopt, alter or repeal any provision of these Bylaws and to make new Bylaws.
 
The foregoing Bylaws were adopted by the Board of Trustees on May 3, 2007.
 
 

Exhibit 3.3
PUBLIC STORAGE, a Maryland real estate investment trust (the ""), hereby certifies to the State Department of Assessments and Taxation of Maryland that:
Trust
FIRST: The articles of amendment and restatement of the Trust's declaration of trust (the "") authorize the issuance of 100,000,000 equity shares of beneficial interest, par value $.01 per share (the "Equity Shares"), issuable from time to time in one or more series, and authorize the Trust's board of trustees (the "") to classify or reclassify any unissued shares from time to time by setting or changing the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends, qualifications, or terms or conditions of redemption of such unissued shares.
Declaration of Trust
Board of Trustees
SECOND: In accordance with Section 8-203 of the Maryland REIT Law and pursuant to the authority expressly vested in the Board of Trustees by the Declaration of Trust, the Board of Trustees has duly divided and classified 500,000 Equity Shares of the Trust as Equity Shares, Series A ("").
Series A Equity Shares
THIRD: The following is a description of the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends or distributions, qualifications, and terms and conditions of redemption of the shares of this Series of the Trust:
(a) .
Dividend Rights
(1) Dividends on each share of this Series shall be non-cumulative and shall be payable out of funds legally available therefor, without interest thereon, when, as and if declared by the Board of Trustees. If, at any time, the Trust shall declare or pay a dividend or other distribution on the Common Shares (i) in cash or (ii) in any shares of beneficial interest of the Trust (but in the latter case, only to the extent that the Trust will claim with respect to the distributed shares a deduction for dividends paid in computing its taxable income pursuant to the REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code (as defined in clause (9) of Section (c)), a dividend or other distribution in cash shall also concurrently be declared or paid, as the case may be, on each share of this Series. The amount of the dividend or distribution on each share of this Series shall be at the rate of five thousand (5,000) times the per share dividend or distribution on the Common Shares (based on the amount of cash, and in the case of shares distributed with respect to the Common Shares, the amount of the dividends paid deduction attributable to the distributed shares), but shall not be more than $612.50 in any calendar quarter (including the calendar quarter ended June 30, 2007); provided, however, that during any calendar year, the amount of the dividend or distribution on each shares of this Series shall not be at a rate less than the lesser of (i) $2,450 per share (which number shall be $1,837.50 per share for the remainder of the calendar year 2007) or (ii) five thousand (5,000) times the per share dividends or distributions on the Common Shares. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any dividend or distribution on the shares of this Series shall be subject to adjustment as provided in Section (e).
Each such dividend shall be paid to the holders of record of shares of this Series as they appear on the share register of the Trust on such record date, not more than 45 days nor less than 15 days preceding the payment date thereof, as shall be fixed by the Board of Trustees. After dividends on this Series equal to the maximum amount set forth above have been paid or declared (as provided hereby) during any particular year and funds therefor set aside for payment, the holders of shares of this Series will not be entitled to any further dividends in that year.
For purposes hereof, "Common Shares" shall mean shares of common beneficial interest, $0.10 par value per share, of the Trust or any other shares of beneficial interest into which such shares are reclassified, changed or exchanged.
(2) Unless dividends on all outstanding "Senior Shares" have been or contemporaneously are paid in full for the latest dividend period ending contemporaneously with or prior to the end of the period for which a dividend is to be paid on the shares of this Series, and, to the extent such Senior Shares have cumulative dividend rights, for all prior dividend periods, no dividend or other distribution shall be paid on the shares of this Series for such period. "Senior Shares" shall mean any shares of beneficial interest of the Trust, exclusive of the shares of this Series and any other series of Equity Shares and Common Shares, which (i) are outstanding as of the date of issuance of the shares of this Series or (ii) are issued subsequent to the date of issuance of the shares of this Series, on terms which do not provide that they are on a parity with, or junior to, the shares of this Series, as to dividends and as to the distribution of assets upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Trust.
(b) .
Liquidation
In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Trust, after the respective liquidation preferences in respect of all Senior Shares, if any, have been paid in full, a holder of each share of this Series will receive out of the assets of the Trust available for distribution to shareholders one thousand (1,000) times the amount per share distributed to the holder of each Common Share; , that the amount so received by the holder of each share of this Series shall not exceed $24,500 per share, subject to adjustment as provided in Section (e). After payment of the full amount of the liquidating distribution to which they are entitled, the holders of shares of this Series Shares will not be entitled to any further participation in any distribution of assets by the Trust.
provided
(1) Written notice of any such liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Trust, stating the payment date or dates when, and the place or places where the amounts distributable in such circumstances shall be payable, shall be given by first class mail, postage pre-paid, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the payment date stated therein, to each record holder of shares of this Series at the respective addresses of such holders as the same shall appear on the share transfer records of the Trust.
(2) For purposes of liquidation rights, a reorganization, consolidation or merger of the Trust with or into any other corporation or corporations or a sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Trust shall be deemed not be a liquidation, dissolution or
 
winding up of the Trust.
(c) .
Redemption
(1) Except as provided in clause (9) of this Section (c), the shares of this Series are not redeemable prior to March 31, 2010. On and after such date, the shares of this Series are redeemable at the option of the Trust, by resolution of the Board of Trustees, in whole or in part, from time to time upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' notice, at a cash redemption price of $24,500 per share, subject to adjustment as provided in clause (1) of Section (e).
(2) Except in the case of a redemption pursuant to clause (9) of this Section (c), the redemption price to be paid for shares of this Series may only be paid from the sale proceeds of Common Shares, other Equity Shares, other rights or options to purchase any of the foregoing (other than debt securities or preferred shares convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for Common Shares or Equity Shares) or from the Trust's undistributed cumulative net cash provided by operating activities.
For this purpose undistributed cumulative net cash provided by operating activities means the Trust's aggregate "net cash provided by operating activities" determined on a cumulative basis from the date of organization of the Trust (or its predecessor) through the end of the calendar quarter immediately preceding the date of redemption as reduced by aggregate "distributions paid to shareholders" and "distributions from operations to minority interests in consolidated real estate entities" that occur during such period. The terms "net cash provided by operating activities," "distributions paid to shareholders" and "distributions from operations to minority interests in consolidated real estate entities" shall mean all amounts that should, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles as in effect in the United States of America from time to time, consistently applied, and past practice of the Trust, be reflected on the consolidated financial statements of the Trust under such heading or similar heading.
(3) If fewer than all the outstanding shares of this Series are to be redeemed, the number of shares to be redeemed will be determined by the Board of Trustees, and such shares shall be redeemed pro rata from the holders of record of such shares in proportion to the number of such shares held by such holders (with adjustments to avoid redemption of fractional shares) or by lot in a manner determined by the Board of Trustees.
(4) If a redemption date falls after a dividend payment record date and prior to the corresponding dividend payment date, each holder of shares of this Series at the close of business on such dividend payment record date shall be entitled to the dividend payable on such shares on the corresponding dividend payment date notwithstanding the redemption of such shares before such dividend payment date. Except as expressly provided herein above, the Trust shall make no payment or allowance for unpaid dividends on the shares of this Series called for redemption.
(5) Notice of redemption shall be given by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the County of Los Angeles and The City of New York, such publication to be made once a week for two successive weeks, commencing not less than 30 nor more than 60
 
days prior to the date fixed for redemption thereof. A similar notice will be mailed by the Trust by first class mail, postage pre-paid, to each record holder of the shares of this Series to be redeemed, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to such redemption date, to the respective addresses of such holders as the same shall appear on the share transfer records of the Trust. Each notice shall state: (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that, except as provided in clause (4) of this Section (c), dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease on such redemption date. If fewer than all the shares of this Series held by any holder are to be redeemed, the notice mailed to such holder shall also specify the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed from such holder.
(6) In order to facilitate the redemption of shares of this Series, the Board of Trustees may fix a record date for the determination of the shares to be redeemed, such record date to be not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for such redemption.
(7) Notice having been given as provided above, from and after the date fixed for the redemption of the shares of this Series by the Trust (unless the Trust shall fail to make available the money necessary to effect such redemption), the holders of shares selected for redemption shall cease to be shareholders with respect to such shares and shall have no interest in or claim against the Trust by virtue thereof and shall have no voting or other rights with respect to such shares, except the right to receive the moneys payable upon such redemption from the Trust, less any required tax withholding amount, without interest thereon, upon surrender (and endorsement or assignment of transfer, if required by the Trust and so stated in the notice) of their certificates, and the shares represented thereby shall no longer be deemed to be outstanding. If fewer than all the shares represented by a certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued, without cost to the holder thereof, representing the unredeemed shares. The Trust may, at its option, at any time after a notice of redemption has been given, deposit the redemption price for the shares of this Series designated for redemption and not yet redeemed, plus the amount of the dividends, if any, to which the holders of this Series are entitled under clause (4) above, with the transfer agent or agents for the shares of this Series, as a trust fund for the benefit of the holders of the shares of this Series designated for redemption, together with irrevocable instructions and authority to such transfer agent or agents that such funds be delivered upon redemption of such shares and to pay, on and after the date fixed for redemption or prior thereto, the redemption price of the shares to their respective holders upon the surrender of their share certificates. From and after the making of such deposit, the holders of the shares designated for redemption shall cease to be shareholders with respect to such shares and shall have no interest in or claim against the Trust by virtue thereof and shall have no voting or other rights with respect to such shares, except the right to receive from such trust fund the moneys payable upon such redemption, without interest thereon, upon surrender (and endorsement or assignment of transfer, if required by the Trust and so stated in the notice) of their certificates, and the shares represented thereby shall no longer be deemed to be outstanding. Any balance of such moneys remaining unclaimed at the end of the five-year period commencing on the date fixed for redemption shall be repaid to the Trust upon its request expressed in a resolution of its Board of Trustees.
(8) Any shares of this Series that shall at any time have been redeemed shall,
 
after such redemption, have the status of authorized but unissued Equity Shares, without designation as to series until such shares are once more designated as part of a particular series by the Board of Trustees.
(9) If the Board of Trustees of the Trust shall, at any time and in good faith, be of the opinion that ownership of securities of the Trust has or may become concentrated to an extent that may prevent the Trust from qualifying as a real estate investment trust ("REIT") under the REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code (as defined below), then the Board of Trustees shall have the power, by lot or other means deemed equitable by them, to prevent the transfer of and/or to call for redemption a number of shares of this Series sufficient, in the opinion of the Board of Trustees, to maintain or bring the direct or indirect ownership thereof into conformity with the requirements of the REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. The redemption price to be paid for shares of this Series so called for redemption, on the date fixed for redemption, shall be, as applicable, the average of the daily closing prices on the principal exchange on which such shares are traded or the average of the highest bid and the lowest asked quotations as reported by the National Quotation Bureau, Incorporated or a similar organization selected from time to time by the Trust in each case for the 15 consecutive trading days commencing 20 trading days prior to the redemption or if there are no such bid and asked quotations, as determined by the Board of Trustees in good faith; provided that if interests in the shares of this Series are represented by depositary shares, then the redemption price shall be determined in accordance with the foregoing, but with respect to one depositary share, multiplied by the number of depositary shares that together represent an interest in one share of this Series. From and after the date fixed for redemption by the Board of Trustees, the holder of any shares of this Series so called for redemption shall cease to be entitled to any distributions, voting rights and other benefits with respect to such shares of this Series, other than the right to payment of the redemption price determined as aforesaid. "REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code" shall mean Sections 856 through 860 and related or successor provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. In order to exercise the redemption option set forth in this clause (9), with respect to the shares of this Series, the Trust shall give notice of redemption in the manner provided in clause (5) of this Section (c). Except as provided in clause (4) of this Section (c), dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease on such redemption date. If fewer than all the shares of this Series held by any holder are to be redeemed, the notice mailed to such holder shall also specify the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed from such holder.
(d) . (1) Except as set forth in this clause (1) of Section (d), the shares of this Series are not convertible into shares of any other class or series of beneficial interest of the Trust. If the Trust (or any successor entity which succeeds to the obligations of the Trust hereunder) determines that (i) it will no longer constitute a qualifying REIT under the REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code for United States federal income tax purposes or (ii) it will no longer file a United States federal income tax return as a REIT (each of the foregoing, a "REIT Termination Event"), then each share of this Series shall be convertible at any time thereafter at the option of the holder thereof into a number of Common Shares equal to $20,000 divided by the Conversion Price.
Conversion
For purposes hereof, "Conversion Price" shall mean initially, $20.92 (resulting in a conversion rate of 956 Common Shares for each share of this Series), as such Conversion Price
 
may be adjusted pursuant to Section (e).
Notice of a REIT Termination Event and of the right of holders of shares of this Series to convert as provided in this Section, shall be given by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the County of Los Angeles and The City of New York, such publication to be made once a week for two successive weeks, commencing within fifteen days after the occurrence of such event. A similar notice will be mailed by the Trust concurrently by first class mail, postage pre-paid, to each record holder of the shares of this Series, to the respective addresses of such holders as the same shall appear on the share transfer records of the Trust.
Any holder of shares of this Series desiring to convert the same into Common Shares shall surrender the certificate or certificates for the shares of this Series being converted, duly endorsed or assigned to the Trust or in blank, at the principal office of the Trust or at a bank or trust company appointed by the Trust for that purpose, accompanied by a written notice of conversion specifying the number (in whole shares) of shares of this Series to be converted and the name or names in which such holder wishes the certificate or certificates for Common Shares to be issued; in case such notice shall specify a name or names other than that of such holder, such notice shall be accompanied by instruments of transfer, in form reasonably satisfactory to the Trust, duly executed by the holder or such holder's duly authorized attorney and payment of all transfer taxes payable upon the issue of Common Shares in such name or names or evidence reasonably satisfactory to the Trust demonstrating that such taxes have been paid. In the event that less than all of the shares of this Series represented by a certificate are to be converted by a holder, upon such conversion the Trust shall issue and deliver, or cause to be issued and delivered, to the holder a certificate or certificates for the shares of this Series not so converted. The right to convert shares of this Series called for redemption shall terminate at the close of business on the redemption date pursuant to Section (c) above. The holders of shares of this Series at the close of business on a dividend payment record date shall be entitled to receive the dividend payable on such shares on the corresponding dividend payment date notwithstanding the conversion thereof or the Trust's failure to pay the dividend due on such dividend payment date. However, shares of this Series surrendered for conversion during the period from the close of business on any record date for the payment of dividends on such shares of this Series to the opening of business on the corresponding dividend payment date (except shares called for redemption on a redemption date during such period, which shall be entitled to such dividend on the dividend payment date) must be accompanied by payment of an amount equal to the dividend payable on such shares on such dividend payment date. A holder of shares of this Series on such dividend payment record date who (or whose transferee) tenders shares of this Series on such dividend payment date will receive the dividend payable on such shares by the Trust on such date, and the converting holder need not include payment in the amount of such dividend upon surrender of shares of this Series for conversion. Except as expressly provided herein, no payment or adjustment will be made on account of accrued or unpaid dividends upon the conversion of shares of this Series.
As promptly as practicable after the surrender of certificates for shares of this Series as aforesaid, the Trust shall issue and shall deliver at such office to such holder, or on his or her written order, a certificate or certificates for the number of full Common Shares issuable upon the conversion of such shares in accordance with the provisions of this Section (d).
 
Each conversion shall be deemed to have been effected immediately prior to the close of business on the date on which the certificates for shares of this Series shall have been surrendered and such notice (and if applicable, payment of an amount equal to the dividend payable on such shares) received by the Trust as aforesaid, and the person or persons in whose name or names any certificate or certificates for Common Shares shall be issuable upon such conversion shall be deemed to have become the holder or holders of record of the shares represented thereby at such time on such date and such conversion shall be at the Conversion Price, unless the share transfer books of the Trust shall be closed on that date, in which event such person or persons shall be deemed to have become such holder or holders of record at the close of business on the next succeeding day on which such share transfer books are open.
(2) The Trust shall at all times reserve and keep available, free from preemptive rights, out of its authorized but unissued Common Shares, for the purpose of issuance upon conversion of shares of this Series, the full number of Common Shares then deliverable upon the conversion of all shares of this Series then outstanding and shall take all action necessary so that Common Shares so issued will be validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable. For purposes of this clause (2) of Section (d), the number of Common Shares that shall be required to be reserved for delivery upon the conversion of all outstanding shares of this Series shall be computed as if at the time of computation all such outstanding shares were held by a single holder. The Trust shall use its best efforts to list the Common Shares required to be delivered upon conversion of shares of this Series, prior to such conversion, upon each national securities exchange or quotation system, if any, upon which the outstanding Common Shares are listed or quoted at the time of such delivery. Prior to the delivery of any securities that the Trust shall be obligated to deliver upon conversion of any shares of this Series, the Trust shall endeavor to comply with all federal and state laws and regulations thereunder requiring the registration of such securities with, or any approval of or consent to the delivery thereof by, any governmental authority.
(3) The Trust will pay any and all stamp or similar taxes that may be payable in respect of the issuance or delivery of Common Shares on conversion of shares of this Series. The Trust shall not, however, be required to pay any tax which may be payable in respect of any transfer involved in the issuance and delivery of Common Shares in a name other than that in which the shares of this Series so converted were registered, and no such issuance or delivery shall be made unless and until the person requesting such issuance has paid to the Trust the amount of any such tax or has established to the satisfaction of the Trust that such tax has been paid.
(4) No fractional shares or scrip representing fractions of Common Shares shall be issued upon conversion of shares of this Series. Instead of any fractional interest in a Common Share that would otherwise be deliverable upon the conversion of a share of this Series, the Trust shall pay to the holder of such share an amount in cash (computed to the nearest cent) based upon the value of Common Shares on the last business day immediately preceding the conversion date. If more than one share shall be surrendered for conversion at one time by the same holder, the number of full Common Shares issuable upon conversion thereof shall be computed on the basis of the aggregate number of shares of this Series so surrendered. For purposes hereof, the value of Common Shares shall be determined as provided in clause (9) of Section (c).
 
(e) . (1) Other than a dividend or distribution as to which the Trust will claim a deduction for dividends paid in computing its taxable income pursuant to the REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, in the event that the Trust shall subdivide or combine its outstanding Common Shares into a greater or smaller number of Common Shares, or shall make a dividend or other distribution of Common Shares to the holders of any of its Common Shares, then in each case (i) the outstanding shares of this Series shall, as appropriate, (A) be subdivided or combined in the same proportion as the Common Shares are subdivided or combined or (B) receive the same proportionate dividend or distribution payable in shares of this Series as paid or issued with respect to the Common Shares and (ii) the per share dollar amounts specified herein for computing dividends per quarter or year, the maximum liquidation distribution and the redemption price shall be adjusted so that the total of each such amount for all outstanding shares of this Series is the same immediately after, as it was immediately prior to, the subdivision, combination, dividend or distribution.
Adjustments
(2) In the event that the Trust shall issue rights, warrants or options to all holders of its Common Shares entitling them to subscribe for or purchase Common Shares at a price per share less than the current market price (as defined below) per share of a Common Share on the date fixed for the determination of stockholders entitled to receive such rights, warrants or options, the Conversion Price in effect at the opening of business on the day following the date fixed for such determination shall be reduced by multiplying such Conversion Price by a fraction of which the numerator shall he the number of Common Shares outstanding at the close of business on the date fixed for such determination plus the number of Common Shares which the aggregate of the offering price of the total number of Common Shares offered for subscription or purchase would purchase at such current market price and the denominator shall be the number of Common Shares outstanding at the close of business on the date fixed for such determination plus the number of Common Shares so offered for subscription or purchase, such reduction to become effective immediately after the opening of business on the day following the date fixed for such determination. For purposes of clause (2) of this Section (e), the number of Common Shares at any time outstanding shall include shares issuable in respect of scrip certificates issued in lieu of fractions of Common Shares.
(3) In the event that the Trust shall, by dividend or otherwise, distribute to all holders of its Common Shares evidence of its indebtedness or assets (including debt securities, but excluding (i) rights, warrants or options referred to in clause (2) of this Section (e), (ii) any dividend or distribution paid in cash out of or in respect of Available Cash (as defined below), (iii) any dividend or distribution as to which the Trust will claim a deduction for dividends paid in computing its taxable income pursuant to the REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and (iv) any dividend or distribution referred to in clause (1) of this Section (e)), the Conversion Price shall be adjusted so that the same shall equal the price determined by multiplying the Conversion Price in effect immediately prior to the close of business on the date fixed for the determination of stockholders entitled to receive such distribution by a fraction of which the numerator shall be the current market price per share of the Common Shares on the dated fixed for such determination less the then fair market value (as determined in good faith by the Board of Trustees of the Trust, whose determination shall be conclusive) of such portion of the assets or evidences of indebtedness so distributed applicable to one Common Share (the "Distribution FMV") and the denominator shall the such current market price per Common Share, such adjustment to become effective immediately prior to the opening of business on the day
 
following the date fixed for the determination of stockholders entitled to receive such distribution; , , that if the Distribution FMV exceeds the current market price per share, or if the current market price exceeds the Distribution FMV by less than 10%, in lieu of the foregoing adjustment, from and after the record date for determining holders of Common Shares entitled to receive the distribution, a holder of a share of this Series that converts such share in accordance with the provisions hereof shall upon such conversion be entitled to receive, in addition to the Common Shares into which the share of this Series is convertible, the kind and amount of securities, cash or other assets comprising the distribution that such holder would have received if such holder had converted the share immediately prior to the record date for determining the holders of Common Shares entitled to receive the distribution.
provided
however
For purposes hereof, Available Cash shall mean net income before loss on early extinguishment of debt and gain on disposition of investments, adjusted as follows: (i) plus depreciation and amortization, (ii) plus gain on disposition of investments, (iii) less distributions to minority interest in excess of minority interest in income and (iv) less dividends on preferred shares, Equity Shares and Common Shares. The terms "net income," "loss on early extinguishment of debt," "gain on disposition of investments," "depreciation and amortization," "distributions to minority interest" and "minority interest in income" shall mean, as of any date of determination, all amounts that should, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles as in effect in the United States of America from time to time, consistently applied, and past practice of the Trust, be reflected on the consolidated financial statements of the Trust under such heading (or similar heading) and shall be determined in respect of the year in which the dividend or distribution occurs.
(4) Other than a dividend or distribution as to which the Trust will claim a deduction for dividends paid in computing its taxable income pursuant to the REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, in the event that the Trust shall pay a dividend or make a distribution on its Common Shares in any shares of beneficial interest of the Trust (other than Common Shares) or issue by reclassification of its Common Shares any shares of beneficial interest of the Trust (other than Common Shares), a holder of a share of this Series who subsequently converts the share, at the time of conversion shall be entitled to receive the number of shares of beneficial interest of the Trust which such holder would have owned immediately following such dividend, distribution or reclassification if such holder had converted the share immediately prior to such action.
The adjustment shall become effective immediately after the record date in the case of a dividend or distribution and immediately after the effective date in the case of a reclassification.
If after an adjustment a holder of a share of this Series upon conversion of such share may receive shares of two or more classes of beneficial interest of the Trust, the Conversion Price shall thereafter be subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of an action taken with respect to any such class of beneficial interest as is contemplated by this Section (e) with respect to the Common Shares on terms comparable to those applicable to the Common Shares in this Section (e).
(5) In the event that the Trust shall effect any capital reorganization or
 
reclassification of its shares (other than a subdivision, combination or share dividend referred to in clause (f) of this Section (H) above or a dividend or distribution as to which the Trust will claim a deduction for dividends paid in computing its taxable income pursuant to the REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code) or shall consolidate or merge with or into any other corporation (other than a consolidation or merger in which the Trust is the surviving corporation and each Common Share outstanding immediately prior to such consolidation or merger is to remain outstanding immediately after such consolidation or merger) or shall sell, lease or transfer all or substantially all of its assets to any other person or entity for a consideration consisting in whole or in part of equity securities of such other entity, lawful provision shall be made as a part of the terms of such transaction whereby the holders of shares of this Series shall, if entitled to convert such shares at any time after the consummation of such transaction, receive upon conversion thereof in lieu of each Common Share that would have been issuable upon conversion of such shares prior to such consummation the same kind and amount of stock (and other securities, cash or property, if any) as may be issuable or distributable in connection with such transaction with respect to each outstanding Common Share subject to adjustments for subsequent share dividends and distributions, subdivisions or combinations of shares, capital reorganizations, reclassifications, consolidations or mergers as nearly equivalent as possible to the adjustments provided for in this Section (e).
(6) For the purpose of any computation under this Section (e), the "current market price" per Common Share on any date shall be determined as of the date in question in the manner provided in clause (9) of Section (c) above.
(7) Notwithstanding the above provisions, no adjustment in the Conversion Price shall be required unless such adjustment (plus any adjustments not previously made by reason of this subsection) would require an increase or decrease of at least 1% in such price; , , that any adjustments which by reason of this subsection are not required to be made shall be carried forward and taken into account in any subsequent adjustment; , , that adjustment shall be required and shall be made in accordance with the provisions of this Section (e) (other than this subsection) not later than the same time as may be required in order to preserve the tax-free nature of a distribution to the holder of any share of this Series. All calculations under this Section (e) shall be made to the nearest four digits.
provided
however
provided
further
(8) The Trust shall take all action necessary so that shares of this Series issued on adjustments pursuant to this Section (e) will be validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable. The Trust shall use its best efforts to list the shares of this Series required to be issued upon such adjustment, prior to such issuance, upon each national securities exchange or quotation system, if any, upon which the outstanding shares of this Series are listed or quoted at the time of such issuance. Prior to the delivery of any securities that the Trust shall be obligated to issue pursuant to clause (I) of this Section (e), the Trust shall endeavor to comply with all federal and state laws and regulations thereunder requiring the registration of such securities with, or any approval of or consent to the delivery thereof by, any governmental authority.
(9) Whenever the Conversion Price is adjusted as herein provided:
(A) the Trust shall compute the adjusted Conversion Price and shall cause to be prepared a certificate signed by the chief financial officer of the Trust setting forth
 
the adjusted Conversion Price and showing in reasonable detail the facts upon which such adjustment is based and the computation thereof which certificate, absent manifest error, shall be prima facie evidence of the correctness of such adjustment; such certificate shall forthwith be filed with each transfer agent for the shares of this Series; and
(B) a notice stating that the Conversion Price has been adjusted and setting forth the adjusted Conversion Price shall, as soon as practicable, be mailed to the holders of record of outstanding shares of this Series.
(10) For purposes of this Section (e), the number of Common Shares at any time outstanding shall not include any Common Shares then owned or held by or for the account of any subsidiary of the Trust, except to the extent of the ownership of common shares of such subsidiary by any person other than the Trust.
(11) In case any event shall occur as to which the provisions of this Section (e) are not strictly applicable but the failure to make any adjustment would not fairly protect the conversion rights represented by the shares of this Series in accordance with the essential intent and principles of this Section, then, in each such case, the Trust shall appoint an independent firm of public accountants of recognized national standing (which may be the regular auditors of the Trust), which shall gave their opinion upon the adjustments, if any, on a basis consistent with the essential intent and principles established in this Section, necessary to preserve, without dilution, the conversion rights represented by the shares of this Series. Upon receipt of such opinion, the Trust will promptly mail a copy thereof to each holder of shares of this Series and shall make the adjustments described therein. The certificate of any independent firm of public accountants of nationally recognized standing selected by the Board of Trustees shall be presumptive evidence of the correctness of any computation made under this subsection.
(f) . The shares of this Series shall not have any voting powers either general or special, except as required by law, except as set forth in clause (1) of this Section (f).
Voting Rights
(1) Holders of shares of this Series shall have the right to vote on all matters presented to holders of the Common Shares for a vote and vote together as one class with holders of Common Shares and other series of equity shares that share voting rights with holders of shares of this Series. Each outstanding share of this Series entitles the holder to one hundred (100) votes, except that such holder, together with holders of Common Shares and other series of equity shares that share voting rights with holders of shares of this Series, has cumulative voting rights in electing Trustees. For purposes of this clause (1) of Section (f), each holder of shares of this Series shall have the right (i) to cast as many votes as there are Trustees to be elected multiplied by one hundred (100) times the number of shares of this Series registered in the name of such holder and (ii) either to cast all of such votes for one candidate for Trustees or to distribute such votes among as many candidates as such holder chooses.
(2) Except as required by law, nothing herein shall be taken to require a class vote or consent in connection with any matter, including the authorization, designation, increase or issuance of any shares of any class or series (including additional shares of this Series) that rank senior to, junior to or on a parity with this Series as to dividends and liquidation rights or in connection with the authorization, designation, increase or issuance of any bonds, mortgages,
 
debentures or other debt obligations of the Trust.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Trust has caused these Articles Supplementary to be signed in its name and on its behalf by its Vice Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President and attested to by its Secretary as of May 30, 2007.
 
THE UNDERSIGNED, the Vice Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President of Public Storage, who executed on behalf of the Trust the foregoing Articles Supplementary of which this certificate is made a part, hereby acknowledges in the name and on behalf of said Trust the foregoing Articles Supplementary to be the duly authorized act of said Trust and hereby certifies to the best of his knowledge, information and belief that the matters and facts set forth herein with respect to the authorization and approval thereof are true in all material respects under the penalties of perjury.
 

Exhibit 3.4
PUBLIC STORAGE, a Maryland real estate investment trust (the ""), hereby certifies to the State Department of Assessments and Taxation of Maryland that:
Trust
FIRST: The articles of amendment and restatement of the Trust's declaration of trust (the "") authorize the issuance of 100,000,000 equity shares of beneficial interest, par value $.01 per share (the "Equity Shares"), issuable from time to time in one or more series, and authorize the Trust's board of trustees (the "") to classify or reclassify any unissued shares from time to time by setting or changing the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends, qualifications, or terms or conditions of redemption of such unissued shares.
Declaration of Trust
Board of Trustees
SECOND: In accordance with Section 8-203 of the Maryland REIT Law and pursuant to the authority expressly vested in the Board of Trustees by the Declaration of Trust, the Board of Trustees has duly divided and classified 4,289,544 Equity Shares of the Trust as Equity Shares, Series AAA (the "").
Series AAA Equity Shares
THIRD: The following is a description of the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends or distributions, qualifications, and terms and conditions of redemption of the shares of this Series of the Trust:
(a) .
Dividend Rights
(1) If, at any time, the Trust shall declare or pay, or set aside funds, shares or other property to pay, a dividend or other distribution on the Common Shares (i) in cash or (ii) in any shares of beneficial interest of the Trust or (iii) other property (but in the case of (ii), only to the extent that the Trust will claim with respect to the distributed shares a deduction for dividends paid in computing its taxable income pursuant to the REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code (as defined in clause (3) of Section (c)), a dividend or other distribution in cash shall also concurrently be declared or paid, or so set aside, as the case may be, on each share of this Series. The amount of the dividend or distribution on each share of this Series shall be at the rate of five (5) times the per share dividend or distribution, or amount so set aside, on the Common Shares (based on the amount of cash, and in the case of shares or other property distributed with respect to the Common Shares, the fair market value attributable to the distributed shares or other property), but shall not be more than $0.539101563 in any calendar quarter (including the calendar quarter ended June 30, 2007); provided, however, that during any calendar year (prorated for the calendar year 2007), the amount of the dividend or distribution on each shares of this Series shall not be at a rate less than the lesser of (i) $2.15640625 per share or (ii) five (5) times the per share dividends or distributions on the Common Shares. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any dividend or distribution on the shares of this Series shall be subject to adjustment as provided in Section (e).
Each such dividend shall be paid to the holders of record of shares of this Series as they appear on the share register of the Trust on such record date, not more than 45 days nor less than 15 days preceding the payment date thereof, as shall be fixed by the Board of Trustees. After dividends on this Series equal to the maximum amount set forth above have been paid or declared (as provided hereby) during any particular year and funds therefor set aside for payment, the holders of shares of this Series will not be entitled to any further dividends in that year.
For purposes hereof "Common Shares" shall mean common shares, $0.10 par value per share, of the Trust or any other shares of beneficial interest into which such shares are reclassified, changed or exchanged.
(2) Unless dividends on all outstanding "Senior Shares" have been or contemporaneously are paid in full, or funds set aside therefor, for the latest dividend period ending contemporaneously with or prior to the end of the period for which a dividend is to be paid on shares of this Series, and, to the extent such Senior Shares have cumulative dividend rights, for all prior dividend periods, no dividend or other distribution shall be paid on the shares of this Series for such period. "Senior Shares" shall mean any shares of beneficial interest of the Trust, exclusive of the shares of this Series and any other series of equity shares and the Common Shares, which (i) are outstanding as of the date of issuance of the shares of this Series or (ii) are issued subsequent to the date of issuance of the shares of this Series, on terms which do not provide that they are on a parity with, or junior to, the shares of this Series or the Common Shares, as to dividends and as to the distribution of assets upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Trust.
(b) .
Liquidation
In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Trust, after the respective liquidation preferences in respect of all Senior Shares, if any, have been paid in full, a holder of each share of this Series will receive out of the assets of the Trust available for distribution to shareholders 120% of the amount distributed to the holder of each Common Share. After payment of the full amount of the liquidating distribution to which they are entitled, the holders of shares of this Series will not be entitled to any further participation in any distribution of assets by the Trust.
(1) Written notice of any such liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Trust, stating the payment date or dates when, and the place or places where the amounts distributable in such circumstances shall be payable, shall be given by first class mail, postage pre-paid, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the payment date stated therein, to each record holder of the shares of this Series at the respective addresses of such holders as the same shall appear on the share transfer records of the Trust.
(2) For purposes of liquidation rights, a reorganization, consolidation or merger of the Trust with or into any other corporation or corporations or a sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Trust shall be deemed not to be a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Trust.
 
(c) .
Redemption
(l) Except as provided in clause (2) and (3) of this Section (c), the shares of this Series are not redeemable.
(2) The shares of this Series are redeemable at the option of the Trust, by resolution of the Board of Trustees, in whole or in part at a cash redemption price as determined in clause (4) of this Section (c), (i) for a period of ten (10) days after the date the Limited Partner (as defined in the Limited Partnership Agreement (the "Partnership Agreement") of PSAC Development Partners, L.P. (the "Partnership")) exercises its option to liquidate the Partnership and (ii) for a period of ten (10) days following the 15th anniversary of the Partnership.
(3) If the Board of Trustees of the Trust shall, at any time and in good faith, be of the opinion that ownership of securities of the Trust has or may become concentrated to an extent that may prevent the Trust from qualifying as a real estate investment trust ("REIT") under the REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, then the Board of Trustees shall have the power to prevent the transfer of and/or to call for redemption all or such number of shares of this Series sufficient in the opinion of the Board of Trustees, to maintain or bring the direct or indirect ownership thereof into conformity with the requirements of the REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, provided that any such action shall be taken pro rata with respect to the shares of this Series and the Common Shares to the extent such action accomplishes the Trust
'
s objective.
For purposes hereof, "REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code" shall mean Sections 856 through 860 and related or successor provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
(4) The per share redemption price to be paid for shares of this Series called for redemption under clauses (2) or (3) of this Section (c), on the date fixed for redemption, shall be, as applicable, 120% of (i) the average of the daily per share closing prices on the principal exchange on which the Common Shares are traded or the average of the highest bid and the lowest asked quotations as reported by the National Quotation Bureau, Incorporated or a similar organization selected from time to time by the Trust in each case for the 15 consecutive trading days commencing 20 trading days prior to the redemption or (ii) if there are no such bid and asked quotations, the value of a Common Share as determined by the Board of Trustees in good faith.
(5) in the case of a redemption under clause (2) of this Section (e), the redemption price to be paid for shares of this Series may only be paid from the sale proceeds of Common Shares, other equity shares or other rights or options to purchase any of the foregoing (other than debt securities or preferred shares convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for Common Shares or equity shares) or from the Trust's undistributed cumulative net cash provided by operating activities.
For this purpose undistributed cumulative net cash provided by operating activities means the Trust's aggregate "net cash provided by operating activities
"
determined on a cumulative basis from the date of organization of the Trust (or its predecessor) through the end
 
of the calendar quarter immediately preceding the date of redemption as reduced by aggregate
"
distributions paid to shareholders
"
and "distributions from operations to minority interests in consolidated real estate entities
"
that occur during such period. The terms "net cash provided by operating activities," "distributions paid to shareholders" and "distributions from operations to minority interests in consolidated real estate entities" shall mean all amounts that should, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles as in effect in the United States of America from time to time, consistently applied, and past practice of the Trust, be reflected on the consolidated financial statements of the Trust under such heading or similar heading.
(6) If a redemption date falls after a dividend payment record date and prior to the corresponding dividend payment date, the holder of shares of this Series at the close of business on such dividend payment record date shall be entitled to the dividend payable on such shares on the corresponding dividend payment date notwithstanding the redemption of such shares before such dividend payment date. Except as expressly provided hereinabove, the Trust shall make no payment or allowance for unpaid dividends on shares of this Series called for redemption.
(7) From and after the date fixed for the redemption of shares of this Series by the Trust (unless the Trust shall fail to make available the money necessary to effect such redemption), the holder of shares selected for redemption shall cease to be a shareholder with respect to such shares and, subject to clause (6) of this Section (c), shall have no interest in or claim against the Trust by virtue thereof and shall have no voting or other rights with respect to such shares, except the right to receive the moneys payable upon such redemption from the Trust, less any required tax withholding amount, without interest thereon, upon surrender (and endorsement or assignment of transfer, if required by the Trust and so stated in the notice) of the certificates, and the shares represented thereby shall no longer be deemed to be outstanding. If fewer than all the shares represented by a certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued, without cost to the holder thereof, representing the unredeemed shares. The Trust may, at its option, at any time after a notice of redemption has been given, deposit the redemption price for the shares of this Series designated for redemption and not yet redeemed, in a segregated account, as a trust fund for the benefit of the holder of the shares of this Series designated for redemption and shall pay, on and after the date fixed for redemption or prior thereto, the redemption price of the shares to the holder thereof upon the surrender of the share certificates. From and after the making of such deposit, the holder of the shares shall cease to be a shareholder with respect to such shares and, subject to clause (6) of this Section (c), shall have no interest in or claim against the Trust by virtue thereof and shall have no voting or other rights with respect to such shares, except the right to receive the moneys payable upon such redemption, without interest thereon, upon surrender (and endorsement or assignment of transfer, if required by the Trust and so stated in the notice) of the certificate, and the shares represented thereby shall no longer be deemed to be outstanding.
(8) Any shares of this Series that shall at any time have been redeemed shall, after such redemption, have the status of authorized but unissued Equity Shares, without designation to series until such shares are once more designated as part of a particular series by the Board of Trustees.
(d)
Conversion.
 
(1) Subject to the provisions for adjustment hereinafter set forth, and unless previously redeemed under clauses (2) or (3) of clause (c), each share of this Series shall be automatically converted into a number of Common Shares equal to $23.3125 divided by the Conversion Price on the earlier of (i) eleven (11) days after the date the Limited Partner (as defined in the Partnership Agreement) exercises its option to liquidate the Partnership or (ii) 11 days following the 15th anniversary of the Partnership.
For purposes hereof, "Conversion Price" shall mean the conversion price per Common Share for which this Series is convertible, as such Conversion Price may be adjusted pursuant to Section (e). The initial Conversion Price will be $19.4270833 (equivalent to a conversion rate of 1.2 Common Shares for each share of this Series).
The holder of shares of this Series at the close of business on a dividend payment record date shall be entitled to receive the dividend payable on such shares on the corresponding dividend payment date notwithstanding the conversion thereof or the Trust's failure to pay the dividend due on such dividend payment date. Except as expressly provided herein, no payment or adjustment will be made on account of accrued or unpaid dividends upon the conversion of shares of this Series.
(2) The Trust shall at all times reserve and keep available, free from preemptive rights, out of its authorized but unissued Common Shares, for the purpose of issuance upon conversion of shares of this Series, the full number of Common Shares then deliverable upon the conversion of all shares of this Series then outstanding and shall take all action necessary so that Common Shares so issued will be validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable. For purposes of this clause (2) of Section (d), the number of Common Shares that shall be required to be reserved for delivery upon the conversion of all outstanding shares of this Series shall be computed as if at the time of computation all such outstanding shares were held by a single holder.
(3) The Trust will pay any and all stamp or similar taxes that may be payable in respect of the issuance or delivery of Common Shares on conversion of shares of this Series.
(4) No fractional shares or scrip representing fractions of Common Shares shall be issued upon conversion of shares of this Series. Instead of any fractional interest in a Common Share that would otherwise be deliverable upon the conversion of a share of this Series, the Trust shall pay to the holder of such share an amount in cash (computed to the nearest cent) based upon the Closing Price of Common Shares on the last business day immediately preceding the conversion date. If more than one share shall be surrendered for conversion at one time by the same holder, the number of full Common Shares issuable upon conversion thereof shall be computed on the basis of the aggregate number of shares of this Series so surrendered.
For purposes hereof, the value of Common Shares shall be determined as provided in clause (4) of Section (c).
(e) .
Adjustments
(1) Other than a dividend or distribution as to which the Trust will claim a deduction for dividends paid in computing its taxable income pursuant to the REIT Provisions of
 
the Internal Revenue Code, in the event that the Trust shall subdivide or combine its outstanding Common Shares into a greater or smaller number of Common Shares, or shall make a dividend or other distribution of Common Shares to the holders of any of its Common Shares, then in each case (i) the outstanding shares of this Series shall, as appropriate, (A) be subdivided or combined in the same proportion as the Common Shares are subdivided or combined or (B) receive the same proportionate dividend or distribution payable in shares of this Series as paid or issued with respect to the Common Shares and (ii) the per share dollar amounts specified herein for computing dividends per quarter or year shall be adjusted so that the total of each such amount for all outstanding shares of this Series is the same immediately after, a was immediately prior to, the subdivision, combination, dividend or distribution.
(2) In the event that the Trust shall issue rights, warrants or options to all holders of its Common Shares entitling them to subscribe for or purchase Common Shares at a price per share less than the current market price (as defined below) per share of a Common Share on the date fixed for the determination of stockholders entitled to receive such rights, warrants or options, the Conversion Price in effect at the opening of business on the day following the date fixed for such determination shall be reduced by multiplying such Conversion Price by a fraction of which the numerator shall be the number of Common Shares outstanding at the close of business on the date fixed for such determination plus the number of Common Shares which the aggregate of the offering price of the total number of Common Shares offered for subscription or purchase would purchase at such current market price and the denominator shall be the number of Common Shares outstanding at the close of business on the date fixed for such determination plus the number of Common Shares so offered for subscription or purchase, such reduction to become effective immediately after the opening of business on the day following the date fixed for such determination. For purposes of clause (2) of this Section (e), the number of Common Shares at any time outstanding shall include shares issuable in respect of scrip certificates issued in lieu of fractions of Common Shares.
(3) In the event that the Trust shall, by dividend or otherwise, distribute to all holds of its Common Shares evidence of its indebtedness or assets (including debt securities, but excluding (i) rights, warrants or options referred to in clause (2) of this Section (e), (ii) any dividend or distribution paid in cash or other property of the Trust out of or in respect of Available Cash (as defined below), (iii) any dividend or distribution as to which the Trust will claim a deduction for dividends paid in computing its taxable income pursuant to the REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and (iv) any dividend or distribution referred to in clause (1) of this Section (e)), the Conversion Price shall be adjusted so that the same shall equal the price determined by multiplying the Conversion Price in effect immediately prior to the close of business on the date fixed for the determination of stockholders entitled to receive such distribution by a fraction of which the numerator shall be the current market price per share of the Common Shares on the dated fixed for such determination less the then fair market value (as determined in good faith by the Board of Trustees of the Trust, whose determination shall be conclusive) of such portion of the assets or evidences of indebtedness so distributed applicable to one Common Share (the "Distribution FMV") and the denominator shall be such current market price per Common Share, such adjustment to become effective immediately prior to the opening of business on the day following the date fixed for the determination of stockholders entitled to receive such distribution; provided, however, that if the Distribution FMV exceeds the current market price per share, or if the current market price exceeds the Distribution FMV by less than
 
10%, in lieu of the foregoing adjustment, from and after the record date for determining holders of Common Shares entitled to receive the distribution, a holder of a share of this Series that converts such share in accordance with the provisions hereof shall upon such conversion be entitled to receive, in addition to the Common Shares into which the share of this Series is conver
t
ible, the kind and amount of securities, cash or other assets comprising the distribution that such holder would have received if such holder had converted the share immediately prior to the record date for determining the holders of Common Shares entitled to receive the distribution.
For purposes hereof, Available Cash shall mean net income before loss on early extinguishment of debt and gain on disposition of real estate, adjusted as follows: (i) plus depreciation and amortization, (ii) plus gain on disposition of real estate investments, (iii) less distributions to minority interest in excess of minority interest in income and (iv) less dividends on preferred shares, equity shares and Common Shares. The terms "net income," "loss on early extinguishment of debt," "gain on disposition of real estate investments,
"
"depreciation and amortization," "distributions to minority interest" and "minority interest in income" shall mean as of any date of determination, all amounts that should, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles as in effect in the United States of America from time to time, consistently applied, and past practice of the Trust, be reflected on the consolidated financial statements of the Trust under such heading (or similar heading) and shall be determined in respect of the year in which the dividend or distribution occurs.
(4) Other than a dividend or distribution as to which the Trust will claim a deduction for dividends paid in computing its taxable income pursuant to the REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, in the event that the Trust shall pay a dividend or make a distribution on its Common Shares in any shares of beneficial interest of the Trust (other than Common Shares) or issue by reclassification of its Common Shares any shares of beneficial interest of the Trust (other than Common Shares), a holder of a share of this Series who subsequently converts the share, at the time of conversion shall be entitled to receive the number of shares of beneficial interest of the Trust which such holder would have owned immediately following such dividend, distribution or reclassification if such holder had converted the share of this Series immediately prior to such action.
The adjustment shall become effective immediately after the record date in the case of a dividend or distribution and immediately after the effective date in the case of a reclassification.
If after an adjustment a holder of a share of this Series upon conversion of such share may receive shares of two or more classes of beneficial interest of the Trust, the Conversion Price shall thereafter be subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of an action taken with respect to any such class of beneficial interest as is contemplated by this Section (e) with respect to the Common Shares on terms comparable to those applicable to the Common Shares in this Section (e).
(5) In the event that the Trust shall effect any capital reorganization or reclassification of its shares (other than a subdivision, combination or share dividend referred to in clause (1) of this Section (e) or a dividend or distribution as to which the Trust will claim a
 
deduction for dividends paid in computing its taxable income pursuant to the REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code) or shall consolidate or merge with or into any other corporation (other than a consolidation or merger in which the Trust is the surviving corporation and each Common Share outstanding immediately prior to such consolidation or merger is to remain outstanding immediately after such consolidation or merger) or shall sell, lease or transfer all or substantially all of its assets to any other person or entity for a consideration consisting in whole or in part of equity securities of such other entity, lawful provision shall be made as a part of the terms of such transaction whereby the holders of shares of this Series shall, if entitled to convert such shares at any time after the consummation of such transaction, receive upon conversion thereof in lieu of each Common Share issuable upon conversion of such shares prior to such consummation the same kind and amount of shares (and other securities, cash or property, if any) as may be issuable or distributable in connection with such transaction with respect to each outstanding Common Share subject to adjustments for subsequent share dividends and distributions, subdivisions or combinations of shares, capital reorganizations, reclassifications, consolidations or mergers as nearly equivalent as possible to the adjustments provided for in this Section (e).
(6) For the purpose of any computation under this Section (e), the "current market price" per Common Share on any date shall be determined as of the date in question in the manner provided in clause (4) of Section (e).
(7) Notwithstanding the above provisions, no adjustment in the Conversion Price shall be required unless such adjustment (plus any adjustments not previously made by reason of this subsection) would require an increase or decrease of at least 1% in such price; provided, however, that any adjustments which by reason of this subsection are not required to be made shall be carried forward and taken into account in any subsequent adjustment; provided, further, that adjustment shall be required and shall be made in accordance with the provisions of this Section (e) (other than this subsection) not later than the same time as may be required in order to preserve the tax-free nature of a distribution to the holder of any share of this Series. All calculations under this Section (e) shall be made to the nearest four digits.
(8) The Trust shall take all action necessary so that shares of this Series issued on adjustments pursuant to this Section (c) will be validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable.
(9) Whenever the Conversion Price is adjusted as herein provided:
(A) the Trust shall compute the adjusted Conversion Price and shall cause to be prepared a certificate signed by the chief financial officer of the Trust setting forth the adjusted Conversion Price and showing in reasonable detail the facts upon which such adjustment is based and the computation thereof which certificate, absent manifest error, shall be prima facie evidence of the correctness of such adjustment; such certificate shall forthwith be filed with each transfer agent for the shares of this Series; and
(B) a notice stating that the Conversion Price has bran adjusted and setting forth the adjusted Conversion Price shall, as soon as practicable, be mailed to the holders of record of outstanding shares of this Series.
 
(10) For purposes of this Section (e), the number of Common Shares at any time outstanding shall not include any Common Shares then owned or held by or for the account of any subsidiary of the Trust, except to the extent of the ownership of common shares of such subsidiary by any person other than the Trust.
(11) In case any event shall occur as to which the provisions of this Section (e) are not strictly applicable but the failure to make any adjustment would not fairly protect the conversion rights represented by the shares of this Series in accordance with the essential intent and principles of this Section, then, in each such case, the Trust shall appoint an independent firm of public accountants of recognized national standing (which may be the regular auditors of the Trust), which shall gave their opinion upon the adjustments, if any, on a basis consistent with the essential intent and principles established in this Section, necessary to preserve, without dilution, the conversion rights represented by the shares of this Series. Upon receipt of such opinion, the Trust will promptly mail a copy thereof to each holder of shares of this Series and shall make the adjustments described therein. The certificate of any independent firm of public accountants of nationally recognized standing selected by the Board of Trustees shall be presumptive evidence of the correctness of any computation made under this subsection.
(f)
Voting Rights.
(1) The shares of this Series shall not have any voting powers either general or special, except as required by law.
(2) Except as required by law, nothing herein shall be taken to require a class vote or consent in connection with any matter, including the authorization, designation, increase or issuance of any shares of any class or series (including additional shares of this Series) that rank senior to, junior to or on a parity with this Series as to dividends and liquidation rights or in connection with the authorization, designation, increase or issuance of any bonds, mortgages, debentures or other debt obligations of the Trust.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Trust has caused these Articles Supplementary to be signed in its name and on its behalf by its Vice Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President and attested to by its Secretary as of May 30, 2007.
 
THE UNDERSIGNED, the Vice Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President of Public Storage, who executed on behalf of the Trust the foregoing Articles Supplementary of which this certificate is made a part, hereby acknowledges in the name and on behalf of said Trust the foregoing Articles Supplementary to be the duly authorized act of said Trust and hereby certifies to the best of his knowledge, information and belief that the matters and facts set forth herein with respect to the authorization and approval thereof are true in all material respects under the penalties of perjury.
 

Exhibit 3.5
PUBLIC STORAGE, a Maryland real estate investment trust (the ""), hereby certifies to the State Department of Assessments and Taxation of Maryland that:
Trust
FIRST: The articles of amendment and restatement of the Trust's declaration of trust (the "") authorize the issuance of 100,000,000 preferred shares of beneficial interest, par value $.01 per share (the "Preferred Shares"), issuable from time to time in one or more series, and authorize the Trust's board of trustees (the "") to classify or reclassify any unissued shares from time to time by setting or changing the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends, qualifications, or terms or conditions of redemption of such unissued shares.
Declaration of Trust
Board of Trustees
SECOND: In accordance with Section 8-203 of the Maryland REIT Law and pursuant to the authority expressly vested in the Board of Trustees by the Declaration of Trust, the Board of Trustees has duly divided and classified 6,900 Preferred Shares of the Trust as 7.500% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series V ("").
Series V Preferred Shares
THIRD: The following is a description of the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends or distributions, qualifications, and terms and conditions of redemption of the Series V Preferred Shares of the Trust:
(a) .
Dividend Rights
(1) Dividends shall be payable in cash on the shares of this Series when, as and if declared by the Board of Trustees, out of funds legally available therefor: (i) for the period from April 1, 2007 to June 30, 2007, and (ii) for each quarterly dividend period thereafter (each quarterly dividend period thereafter being hereinafter individually referred to as a "" and collectively referred to as ""), which quarterly Dividend Periods shall be in four equal amounts and shall commence on January 1, April 1, July 1 and October 1 in each year (each, a ""), and shall end on and include the day next preceding the next Dividend Period Commencement Date, at a rate per annum equal to 7.500% of the $25,000 per share stated value thereof. Dividends on each share of this Series shall be cumulative from April 1, 2007 and shall be payable, without interest thereon, when, as and if declared by the Board of Trustees, on or before March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 of each year; , that if any such day shall be a Saturday, Sunday, or a day on which banking institutions in the State of New York or the State of California are authorized or obligated by law to close, or a day which is or is declared a national or a New York or California state holiday (any of the foregoing a ""), then the payment date shall be the next succeeding day which is not a Non-Business Day. Each such dividend shall be paid to the holders of record of shares of this Series as they appear on the share register of the Trust on such record date, not more than 45 days nor less than 15 days preceding
Dividend Period
Dividend Periods
Dividend Period Commencement Date
provided
Non-Business Day
the payment date thereof, as shall be fixed by the Board of Trustees. Dividends on account of arrears for any past Dividend Periods may be declared and paid at any time, without reference to any regular dividend payment date, to holders of record on such date, not more than 45 days nor less than 15 days preceding the payment date thereof, as may be fixed by the Board of Trustees. After full cumulative dividends on this Series have been paid or declared and funds therefor set aside for payment, including for the then current Dividend Period, the holders of shares of this Series will not be entitled to any further dividends with respect to that Dividend Period.
(2) Dividends payable on shares of this Series for any period greater or less than a full Dividend Period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.
(3) The Trust shall not declare or pay or set apart for payment any dividends on any series of Preferred Shares ranking, as to dividends, on a parity with or junior to the shares of this Series unless full cumulative dividends have been or contemporaneously are declared and paid, or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof is set apart for payment, on the shares of this Series for all Dividend Periods terminating on or prior to the date of payment of any such dividends on such other series of Preferred Shares. When dividends are not paid in full upon the shares of this Series and any other series of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity therewith as to dividends (including, without limitation, the Trust's 6.125% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series A, 7.125% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series B, 6.600% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series C, 6.180% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series D, 6.750% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series E, 6.450% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series F, 7.000% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series G, 6.950% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series H, 7.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series I, 7.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series J, 7.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series K, 6.750% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series L, 6.625% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series M, 6.400% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series NN, 6.500% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series W, 6.450% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series X, 6.850% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series Y, 6.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series Z (all of the foregoing, collectively the ""), all dividends declared upon shares of this Series and any other series of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity therewith as to dividends shall be declared pro rata so that the amount of dividends declared per share on the shares of this Series and such other series of Preferred Shares shall in all cases bear to each other that same ratio that the accumulated dividends per share on the shares of this Series and such other series of Preferred Shares bear to each other. Except as provided in the preceding sentence, unless full cumulative dividends on the shares of this Series have been paid, or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof is set apart for payment, for all past Dividend Periods, no dividends (other than in the Trust's common shares, par value $.10 per share (together with any other shares of beneficial interest of the Trust into which such shares shall be reclassified or changed ("")), or shares of beneficial interest ranking junior to the shares of this Series as to dividends and upon liquidation) shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment nor shall any other distribution be made upon the Common Shares or on any other shares of beneficial interest of the Trust ranking junior to or on a parity with the shares of this Series as to dividends or upon liquidation. Unless full cumulative dividends on the shares of this Series have been paid, or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof is set apart for payment, for all past Dividend Periods, no Common Shares or any other shares of beneficial interest of the Trust ranking junior to or on a
Parity Preferred Shares
Common Shares
 
parity with the shares of this Series as to dividends or upon liquidation shall be redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired for any consideration (or any moneys be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any shares of any such shares of beneficial interest) by the Trust or any subsidiary, except by conversion into or exchange for shares of beneficial interest of the Trust ranking junior to the shares of this Series as to dividends and upon liquidation.
(b) .
Liquidation
In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Trust, the holders of the shares of this Series are entitled to receive out of the assets of the Trust available for distribution to shareholders, before any distribution of assets is made to holders of Common Shares or any other class or series of shares ranking junior to the shares of this Series upon liquidation, liquidating distributions in the amount of $25,000 per share plus all accumulated and unpaid dividends (whether or not earned or declared) for the then current and all past Dividend Periods. If, upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Trust, the amounts payable with respect to the shares of this Series and any other shares of the Trust ranking as to any such distribution on a parity with the shares of this Series are not paid in full, the holders of shares of this Series and of such other shares (including the Parity Preferred Shares) will share ratably in any such distribution of assets of the Trust in proportion to the full respective preferential amounts to which they are entitled. After payment of the full amount of the liquidating distribution to which they are entitled, the holders of shares of this Series will not be entitled to any further participation in any distribution of assets by the Trust.
(1) Written notice of any such liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Trust, stating the payment date or dates when, and the place or places where the amounts distributable in such circumstances shall be payable, shall be given by first class mail, postage pre-paid, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the payment date stated therein, to each record holder of the shares of this Series at the respective addresses of such holders as the same shall appear on the share transfer records of the Trust.
(2) For purposes of liquidation rights, a reorganization, consolidation or merger of the Trust with or into any other entity or entities or a sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Trust shall be deemed not to be a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Trust.
(c) .
Redemption
(1) Except as provided in clause (9) below, the shares of this Series are not redeemable prior to September 30, 2007. On and after such date, the shares of this Series are redeemable at the option of the Trust, by resolution of the Board of Trustees, in whole or in part, from time to time upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' notice, at a cash redemption price of $25,000 per share plus all accumulated and unpaid dividends (whether or not earned or declared) to the date of redemption.
 
(2) If fewer than all the outstanding shares of this Series are to be redeemed, the number of shares to be redeemed will be determined by the Board of Trustees, and such shares shall be redeemed pro rata from the holders of record of such shares in proportion to the number of such shares held by such holders (with adjustments to avoid redemption of fractional shares) or by lot in a manner determined by the Board of Trustees.
(3) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any dividends, including any accumulation, on the shares of this Series are in arrears, no shares of this Series shall be redeemed unless all outstanding shares of this Series are simultaneously redeemed, and the Trust shall not purchase or otherwise acquire, directly or indirectly, any shares of this Series; , , that the foregoing shall not prevent the purchase or acquisition of shares of this Series pursuant to a purchase or exchange offer provided such offer is made on the same terms to all holders of shares of this Series.
provided
however
(4) Immediately prior to any redemption of shares of this Series, the Trust shall pay, in cash, any accumulated and unpaid dividends through the redemption date, unless a redemption date falls after a dividend payment record date and prior to the corresponding dividend payment date, in which case each holder of shares of this Series at the close of business on such dividend payment record date shall be entitled to the dividend payable on such shares on the corresponding dividend payment date notwithstanding the redemption of such shares before such dividend payment date. Except as expressly provided herein above, the Trust shall make no payment or allowance for unpaid dividends, whether or not in arrears, on shares of this Series called for redemption.
(5) Notice of redemption shall be given by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the County of Los Angeles and the City of New York, such publication to be made once a week for two successive weeks, commencing not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for redemption thereof. A similar notice will be mailed by the Trust by first class mail, postage pre-paid, to each record holder of the shares of this Series to be redeemed, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to such redemption date, to the respective addresses of such holders as the same shall appear on the share transfer records of the Trust. Each notice shall state: (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accumulate on such redemption date. If fewer than all the shares of this Series held by any holder are to be redeemed, the notice mailed to such holder shall also specify the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed from such holder.
(6) In order to facilitate the redemption of shares of this Series, the Board of Trustees may fix a record date for the determination of the shares to be redeemed, such record date to be not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for such redemption.
(7) Notice having been given as provided above, from and after the date fixed for the redemption of shares of this Series by the Trust (unless the Trust shall fail to make available the money necessary to effect such redemption), the holders of shares selected for redemption shall cease to be shareholders with respect to such shares and shall have no interest in or claim against the Trust by virtue thereof and shall have no voting or other rights with
 
respect to such shares, except the right to receive the moneys payable upon such redemption from the Trust, less any required tax withholding amount, without interest thereon, upon surrender (and endorsement or assignment of transfer, if required by the Trust and so stated in the notice) of their certificates, and the shares represented thereby shall no longer be deemed to be outstanding. If fewer than all the shares represented by a certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued, without cost to the holder thereof, representing the unredeemed shares. The Trust may, at its option, at any time after a notice of redemption has been given, deposit the redemption price for the shares of this Series designated for redemption and not yet redeemed, plus any accumulated and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for redemption, with the transfer agent or agents for this Series, as a trust fund for the benefit of the holders of the shares of this Series designated for redemption, together with irrevocable instructions and authority to such transfer agent or agents that such funds be delivered upon redemption of such shares and to pay, on and after the date fixed for redemption or prior thereto, the redemption price of the shares to their respective holders upon the surrender of their share certificates. From and after the making of such deposit, the holders of the shares designated for redemption shall cease to be shareholders with respect to such shares and shall have no interest in or claim against the Trust by virtue thereof and shall have no voting or other rights with respect to such shares, except the right to receive from such trust fund the moneys payable upon such redemption, without interest thereon, upon surrender (and endorsement or assignment of transfer, if required by the Trust and so stated in the notice) of their certificates, and the shares represented thereby shall no longer be deemed to be outstanding. Any balance of such moneys remaining unclaimed at the end of the five-year period commencing on the date fixed for redemption shall be repaid to the Trust upon its request expressed in a resolution of its Board of Trustees.
(8) Any shares of this Series that shall at any time have been redeemed shall, after such redemption, have the status of authorized but unissued Preferred Shares, without designation as to series until such shares are once more designated as part of a particular series by the Board of Trustees.
(9) If the Board of Trustees shall, at any time and in good faith, be of the opinion that ownership of securities of the Trust has or may become concentrated to an extent that may prevent the Trust from qualifying as a real estate investment trust under the REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, then the Board of Trustees shall have the power, by lot or other means deemed equitable by them to prevent the transfer of and/or to call for redemption a number of shares of this Series sufficient, in the opinion of the Board of Trustees, to maintain or bring the direct or indirect ownership thereof into conformity with the requirements of such a real estate investment trust under the REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. The redemption price to be paid for shares of this Series so called for redemption, on the date fixed for redemption, shall be (i) the closing sale price on any national securities exchange or trading market on which the shares of this Series are listed, or (ii) the last quoted price as reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotation System or any other United States automated inter-dealer quotation system, on the last business day prior to the redemption date, or if the shares of this Series so called for redemption are not listed on any such exchange, trading market or quotation system, at $25,000 per share of this Series (subject to adjustment in the case of share splits, combinations, share dividends and similar transactions); provided that if interests in shares of this Series are represented by depositary shares, then the
 
redemption price shall be determined in accordance with the foregoing, but with respect to one depositary share, multiplied by the number of depositary shares that together represent an interest in one share of this Series. From and after the date fixed for redemption by the Board of Trustees, the holder of any shares of this Series so called for redemption shall cease to be entitled to any distributions, voting rights and other benefits with respect to such shares of this Series, other than the right to payment of the redemption price determined as aforesaid. "REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code" shall mean Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. In order to exercise the redemption option set forth in this clause (9), with respect to the shares of this Series, the Trust shall give notice of redemption by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the County of Los Angeles and the City of New York, such publication to be made once a week for two successive weeks, commencing not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for redemption. A similar notice will be mailed by the Trust by first class mail, postage pre-paid, to each record holder of the shares of this Series to be redeemed, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to such redemption date, to the respective addresses of such holders as the same shall appear on the share transfer records of the Trust. Each notice shall state: (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accumulate on such redemption date. If fewer than all the shares of this Series held by any holder are to be redeemed, the notice mailed to such holder shall also specify the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed from such holder.
(d) . The shares of this Series shall not have any voting powers either general or special, except as required by law and except that:
Voting Rights
(1) If the Trust shall fail to pay full cumulative dividends on the shares of this Series or any other of its Preferred Shares for six quarterly dividend payment periods, whether or not consecutive (a ""), the holders of all outstanding Preferred Shares, voting as a single class without regard to series, will be entitled to elect two Trustees until full cumulative dividends for all past dividend payment periods on all Preferred Shares have been paid or declared and funds therefor set apart for payment. Such right to vote separately as a class to elect Trustees shall, when vested, be subject, always, to the same provisions for the vesting of such right to elect Trustees separately as a class in the case of future Dividend Defaults. At any time when such right to elect Trustees separately as a class shall have so vested, the Trust may, and upon the written request of the holders of record of not less than 20% of the total number of Preferred Shares of the Trust then outstanding shall, call a special meeting of shareholders for the election of Trustees. In the case of such a written request, such special meeting shall be held within 90 days after the delivery of such request and, in either case, at the place and upon the notice provided by law and in the Bylaws of the Trust, provided that the Trust shall not be required to call such a special meeting if such request is received less than 120 days before the date fixed for the next ensuing Annual Meeting of Shareholders of the Trust and the holders of all classes of outstanding Preferred Shares are afforded the opportunity to elect such Trustees (or fill any vacancy) at such Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Trustees elected as aforesaid shall serve until the next Annual Meeting of Shareholders of the Trust or until their respective successors shall be elected and qualified. If, prior to the end of the term of any Trustee elected as aforesaid, a vacancy in the office of such Trustee shall occur during the continuance of a
Dividend Default
 
Dividend Default by reason of death, resignation, or disability, such vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired term by the appointment of a new Trustee for the unexpired term of such former Trustee, such appointment to be made by the remaining Trustee elected as aforesaid.
(2) The affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least 66
2/3 
% of the outstanding shares of this Series, voting separately as a class, will be required for any amendment to the Declaration of Trust that will adversely alter or change the powers, preferences, privileges or rights of the shares of this Series, except as set forth below. The affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least 66
2/3 
% of the outstanding shares of this Series and any other series of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity with this Series as to dividends and upon liquidation (including the Parity Preferred Shares), voting as a single class without regard to series, will be required to issue, authorize or increase the authorized amount of any class or series of shares ranking prior to this Series as to dividends or upon liquidation or to issue or authorize any obligation or security convertible into or evidencing a right to purchase any such security, but the Declaration of Trust may be amended to increase the number of authorized Preferred Shares ranking on a parity with or junior to this Series or to create another class of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity with or junior to this Series without the vote of the holders of outstanding shares of this Series.
(e) . The shares of this Series are not convertible into shares of any other class or series of the shares of beneficial interest of this Trust.
Conversion
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Trust has caused these Articles Supplementary to be signed in its name and on its behalf by its Vice Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President and attested to by its Secretary as of May 30, 2007.
 
THE UNDERSIGNED, the Vice Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President of Public Storage, who executed on behalf of the Trust the foregoing Articles Supplementary of which this certificate is made a part, hereby acknowledges in the name and on behalf of said Trust the foregoing Articles Supplementary to be the duly authorized act of said Trust and hereby certifies to the best of his knowledge, information and belief that the matters and facts set forth herein with respect to the authorization and approval thereof are true in all material respects under the penalties of perjury.
 

Exhibit 3.6
PUBLIC STORAGE, a Maryland real estate investment trust (the ""), hereby certifies to the State Department of Assessments and Taxation of Maryland that:
Trust
FIRST: The articles of amendment and restatement of the Trust's declaration of trust (the "") authorize the issuance of 100,000,000 preferred shares of beneficial interest, par value $.01 per share (the "Preferred Shares"), issuable from time to time in one or more series, and authorize the Trust's board of trustees (the "") to classify or reclassify any unissued shares from time to time by setting or changing the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends, qualifications, or terms or conditions of redemption of such unissued shares.
Declaration of Trust
Board of Trustees
SECOND: In accordance with Section 8-203 of the Maryland REIT Law and pursuant to the authority expressly vested in the Board of Trustees by the Declaration of Trust, the Board of Trustees has duly divided and classified 5,750 Preferred Shares of the Trust as 6.500% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series W ("").
Series W Preferred Shares
THIRD: The following is a description of the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends or distributions, qualifications, and terms and conditions of redemption of the Series W Preferred Shares of the Trust:
(a) .
Dividend Rights
(1) Dividends shall be payable in cash on the shares of this Series when, as and if declared by the Board of Trustees, out of funds legally available therefor: (i) for the period from April 1, 2007 to June 30, 2007, and (ii) for each quarterly dividend period thereafter (each quarterly dividend period thereafter being hereinafter individually referred to as a "" and collectively referred to as ""), which quarterly Dividend Periods shall be in four equal amounts and shall commence on January 1, April 1, July 1 and October 1 in each year (each, a ""), and shall end on and include the day next preceding the next Dividend Period Commencement Date, at a rate per annum equal to 6.500% of the $25,000 per share stated value thereof. Dividends on each share of this Series shall be cumulative from April 1, 2007 and shall be payable, without interest thereon, when, as and if declared by the Board of Trustees, on or before March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 of each year; , that if any such day shall be a Saturday, Sunday, or a day on which banking institutions in the State of New York or the State of California are authorized or obligated by law to close, or a day which is or is declared a national or a New York or California state holiday (any of the foregoing a ""), then the payment date shall be the next succeeding day which is not a Non-Business Day. Each such dividend shall be paid to the holders of record of shares of this Series as they appear on the share register of the Trust on such record date, not more than 45 days nor less than 15 days preceding
Dividend Period
Dividend Periods
Dividend Period Commencement Date
provided
Non-Business Day
the payment date thereof, as shall be fixed by the Board of Trustees. Dividends on account of arrears for any past Dividend Periods may be declared and paid at any time, without reference to any regular dividend payment date, to holders of record on such date, not more than 45 days nor less than 15 days preceding the payment date thereof, as may be fixed by the Board of Trustees. After full cumulative dividends on this Series have been paid or declared and funds therefor set aside for payment, including for the then current Dividend Period, the holders of shares of this Series will not be entitled to any further dividends with respect to that Dividend Period.
(2) Dividends payable on shares of this Series for any period greater or less than a full Dividend Period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.
(3) The Trust shall not declare or pay or set apart for payment any dividends on any series of Preferred Shares ranking, as to dividends, on a parity with or junior to the shares of this Series unless full cumulative dividends have been or contemporaneously are declared and paid, or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof is set apart for payment, on the shares of this Series for all Dividend Periods terminating on or prior to the date of payment of any such dividends on such other series of Preferred Shares. When dividends are not paid in full upon the shares of this Series and any other series of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity therewith as to dividends (including, without limitation, the Trust's 6.125% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series A, 7.125% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series B, 6.600% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series C, 6.180% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series D, 6.750% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series E, 6.450% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series F, 7.000% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series G, 6.950% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series H, 7.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series I, 7.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series J, 7.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series K, 6.750% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series L, 6.625% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series M, 6.400% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series NN, 7.500% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series V, 6.450% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series X, 6.850% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series Y, 6.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series Z (all of the foregoing, collectively the ""), all dividends declared upon shares of this Series and any other series of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity therewith as to dividends shall be declared pro rata so that the amount of dividends declared per share on the shares of this Series and such other series of Preferred Shares shall in all cases bear to each other that same ratio that the accumulated dividends per share on the shares of this Series and such other series of Preferred Shares bear to each other. Except as provided in the preceding sentence, unless full cumulative dividends on the shares of this Series have been paid, or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof is set apart for payment, for all past Dividend Periods, no dividends (other than in the Trust's common shares, par value $.10 per share (together with any other shares of beneficial interest of the Trust into which such shares shall be reclassified or changed ("")), or shares of beneficial interest ranking junior to the shares of this Series as to dividends and upon liquidation) shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment nor shall any other distribution be made upon the Common Shares or on any other shares of beneficial interest of the Trust ranking junior to or on a parity with the shares of this Series as to dividends or upon liquidation. Unless full cumulative dividends on the shares of this Series have been paid, or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof is set apart for payment, for all past Dividend Periods, no
Parity Preferred Shares
Common Shares
 
Common Shares or any other shares of beneficial interest of the Trust ranking junior to or on a parity with the shares of this Series as to dividends or upon liquidation shall be redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired for any consideration (or any moneys be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any shares of any such shares of beneficial interest) by the Trust or any subsidiary, except by conversion into or exchange for shares of beneficial interest of the Trust ranking junior to the shares of this Series as to dividends and upon liquidation.
(b) .
Liquidation
In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Trust, the holders of the shares of this Series are entitled to receive out of the assets of the Trust available for distribution to shareholders, before any distribution of assets is made to holders of Common Shares or any other class or series of shares ranking junior to the shares of this Series upon liquidation, liquidating distributions in the amount of $25,000 per share plus all accumulated and unpaid dividends (whether or not earned or declared) for the then current and all past Dividend Periods. If, upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Trust, the amounts payable with respect to the shares of this Series and any other shares of the Trust ranking as to any such distribution on a parity with the shares of this Series are not paid in full, the holders of shares of this Series and of such other shares (including the Parity Preferred Shares) will share ratably in any such distribution of assets of the Trust in proportion to the full respective preferential amounts to which they are entitled. After payment of the full amount of the liquidating distribution to which they are entitled, the holders of shares of this Series will not be entitled to any further participation in any distribution of assets by the Trust.
(1) Written notice of any such liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Trust, stating the payment date or dates when, and the place or places where the amounts distributable in such circumstances shall be payable, shall be given by first class mail, postage pre-paid, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the payment date stated therein, to each record holder of the shares of this Series at the respective addresses of such holders as the same shall appear on the share transfer records of the Trust.
(2) For purposes of liquidation rights, a reorganization, consolidation or merger of the Trust with or into any other entity or entities or a sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Trust shall be deemed not to be a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Trust.
(c) .
Redemption
(1) Except as provided in clause (9) below, the shares of this Series are not redeemable prior to October 6, 2008. On and after such date, the shares of this Series are redeemable at the option of the Trust, by resolution of the Board of Trustees, in whole or in part, from time to time upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' notice, at a cash redemption price of $25,000 per share plus all accumulated and unpaid dividends (whether or not earned or declared) to the date of redemption.
 
(2) If fewer than all the outstanding shares of this Series are to be redeemed, the number of shares to be redeemed will be determined by the Board of Trustees, and such shares shall be redeemed pro rata from the holders of record of such shares in proportion to the number of such shares held by such holders (with adjustments to avoid redemption of fractional shares) or by lot in a manner determined by the Board of Trustees.
(3) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any dividends, including any accumulation, on the shares of this Series are in arrears, no shares of this Series shall be redeemed unless all outstanding shares of this Series are simultaneously redeemed, and the Trust shall not purchase or otherwise acquire, directly or indirectly, any shares of this Series; , , that the foregoing shall not prevent the purchase or acquisition of shares of this Series pursuant to a purchase or exchange offer provided such offer is made on the same terms to all holders of shares of this Series.
provided
however
(4) Immediately prior to any redemption of shares of this Series, the Trust shall pay, in cash, any accumulated and unpaid dividends through the redemption date, unless a redemption date falls after a dividend payment record date and prior to the corresponding dividend payment date, in which case each holder of shares of this Series at the close of business on such dividend payment record date shall be entitled to the dividend payable on such shares on the corresponding dividend payment date notwithstanding the redemption of such shares before such dividend payment date. Except as expressly provided herein above, the Trust shall make no payment or allowance for unpaid dividends, whether or not in arrears, on shares of this Series called for redemption.
(5) Notice of redemption shall be given by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the County of Los Angeles and the City of New York, such publication to be made once a week for two successive weeks, commencing not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for redemption thereof. A similar notice will be mailed by the Trust by first class mail, postage pre-paid, to each record holder of the shares of this Series to be redeemed, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to such redemption date, to the respective addresses of such holders as the same shall appear on the share transfer records of the Trust. Each notice shall state: (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accumulate on such redemption date. If fewer than all the shares of this Series held by any holder are to be redeemed, the notice mailed to such holder shall also specify the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed from such holder.
(6) In order to facilitate the redemption of shares of this Series, the Board of Trustees may fix a record date for the determination of the shares to be redeemed, such record date to be not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for such redemption.
(7) Notice having been given as provided above, from and after the date fixed for the redemption of shares of this Series by the Trust (unless the Trust shall fail to make available the money necessary to effect such redemption), the holders of shares selected for redemption shall cease to be shareholders with respect to such shares and shall have no interest
 
in or claim against the Trust by virtue thereof and shall have no voting or other rights with respect to such shares, except the right to receive the moneys payable upon such redemption from the Trust, less any required tax withholding amount, without interest thereon, upon surrender (and endorsement or assignment of transfer, if required by the Trust and so stated in the notice) of their certificates, and the shares represented thereby shall no longer be deemed to be outstanding. If fewer than all the shares represented by a certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued, without cost to the holder thereof, representing the unredeemed shares. The Trust may, at its option, at any time after a notice of redemption has been given, deposit the redemption price for the shares of this Series designated for redemption and not yet redeemed, plus any accumulated and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for redemption, with the transfer agent or agents for this Series, as a trust fund for the benefit of the holders of the shares of this Series designated for redemption, together with irrevocable instructions and authority to such transfer agent or agents that such funds be delivered upon redemption of such shares and to pay, on and after the date fixed for redemption or prior thereto, the redemption price of the shares to their respective holders upon the surrender of their share certificates. From and after the making of such deposit, the holders of the shares designated for redemption shall cease to be shareholders with respect to such shares and shall have no interest in or claim against the Trust by virtue thereof and shall have no voting or other rights with respect to such shares, except the right to receive from such trust fund the moneys payable upon such redemption, without interest thereon, upon surrender (and endorsement or assignment of transfer, if required by the Trust and so stated in the notice) of their certificates, and the shares represented thereby shall no longer be deemed to be outstanding. Any balance of such moneys remaining unclaimed at the end of the five-year period commencing on the date fixed for redemption shall be repaid to the Trust upon its request expressed in a resolution of its Board of Trustees.
(8) Any shares of this Series that shall at any time have been redeemed shall, after such redemption, have the status of authorized but unissued Preferred Shares, without designation as to series until such shares are once more designated as part of a particular series by the Board of Trustees.
(9) If the Board of Trustees shall, at any time and in good faith, be of the opinion that ownership of securities of the Trust has or may become concentrated to an extent that may prevent the Trust from qualifying as a real estate investment trust under the REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, then the Board of Trustees shall have the power, by lot or other means deemed equitable by them to prevent the transfer of and/or to call for redemption a number of shares of this Series sufficient, in the opinion of the Board of Trustees, to maintain or bring the direct or indirect ownership thereof into conformity with the requirements of such a real estate investment trust under the REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. The redemption price to be paid for shares of this Series so called for redemption, on the date fixed for redemption, shall be (i) the closing sale price on any national securities exchange or trading market on which the shares of this Series are listed, or (ii) the last quoted price as reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotation System or any other United States automated inter-dealer quotation system, on the last business day prior to the redemption date, or if the shares of this Series so called for redemption are not listed on any such exchange, trading market or quotation system, at $25,000 per share of this Series (subject to
 
adjustment in the case of share splits, combinations, share dividends and similar transactions); provided that if interests in shares of this Series are represented by depositary shares, then the redemption price shall be determined in accordance with the foregoing, but with respect to one depositary share, multiplied by the number of depositary shares that together represent an interest in one share of this Series. From and after the date fixed for redemption by the Board of Trustees, the holder of any shares of this Series so called for redemption shall cease to be entitled to any distributions, voting rights and other benefits with respect to such shares of this Series, other than the right to payment of the redemption price determined as aforesaid. "REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code" shall mean Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. In order to exercise the redemption option set forth in this clause (9), with respect to the shares of this Series, the Trust shall give notice of redemption by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the County of Los Angeles and the City of New York, such publication to be made once a week for two successive weeks, commencing not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for redemption. A similar notice will be mailed by the Trust by first class mail, postage pre-paid, to each record holder of the shares of this Series to be redeemed, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to such redemption date, to the respective addresses of such holders as the same shall appear on the share transfer records of the Trust. Each notice shall state: (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accumulate on such redemption date. If fewer than all the shares of this Series held by any holder are to be redeemed, the notice mailed to such holder shall also specify the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed from such holder.
(d) . The shares of this Series shall not have any voting powers either general or special, except as required by law and except that:
Voting Rights
(1) If the Trust shall fail to pay full cumulative dividends on the shares of this Series or any other of its Preferred Shares for six quarterly dividend payment periods, whether or not consecutive (a ""), the holders of all outstanding Preferred Shares, voting as a single class without regard to series, will be entitled to elect two Trustees until full cumulative dividends for all past dividend payment periods on all Preferred Shares have been paid or declared and funds therefor set apart for payment. Such right to vote separately as a class to elect Trustees shall, when vested, be subject, always, to the same provisions for the vesting of such right to elect Trustees separately as a class in the case of future Dividend Defaults. At any time when such right to elect Trustees separately as a class shall have so vested, the Trust may, and upon the written request of the holders of record of not less than 20% of the total number of Preferred Shares of the Trust then outstanding shall, call a special meeting of shareholders for the election of Trustees. In the case of such a written request, such special meeting shall be held within 90 days after the delivery of such request and, in either case, at the place and upon the notice provided by law and in the Bylaws of the Trust, provided that the Trust shall not be required to call such a special meeting if such request is received less than 120 days before the date fixed for the next ensuing Annual Meeting of Shareholders of the Trust and the holders of all classes of outstanding Preferred Shares are afforded the opportunity to elect such Trustees (or fill any vacancy) at such Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Trustees elected as aforesaid shall
Dividend Default
 
serve until the next Annual Meeting of Shareholders of the Trust or until their respective successors shall be elected and qualified. If, prior to the end of the term of any Trustee elected as aforesaid, a vacancy in the office of such Trustee shall occur during the continuance of a Dividend Default by reason of death, resignation, or disability, such vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired term by the appointment of a new Trustee for the unexpired term of such former Trustee, such appointment to be made by the remaining Trustee elected as aforesaid.
(2) The affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least 66
2/3 
% of the outstanding shares of this Series, voting separately as a class, will be required for any amendment to the Declaration of Trust that will adversely alter or change the powers, preferences, privileges or rights of the shares of this Series, except as set forth below. The affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least 66
2/3 
% of the outstanding shares of this Series and any other series of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity with this Series as to dividends and upon liquidation (including the Parity Preferred Shares), voting as a single class without regard to series, will be required to issue, authorize or increase the authorized amount of any class or series of shares ranking prior to this Series as to dividends or upon liquidation or to issue or authorize any obligation or security convertible into or evidencing a right to purchase any such security, but the Declaration of Trust may be amended to increase the number of authorized Preferred Shares ranking on a parity with or junior to this Series or to create another class of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity with or junior to this Series without the vote of the holders of outstanding shares of this Series.
(e) . The shares of this Series are not convertible into shares of any other class or series of the shares of beneficial interest of this Trust.
Conversion
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Trust has caused these Articles Supplementary to be signed in its name and on its behalf by its Vice Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President and attested to by its Secretary as of May 30, 2007.
 
THE UNDERSIGNED, the Vice Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President of Public Storage, who executed on behalf of the Trust the foregoing Articles Supplementary of which this certificate is made a part, hereby acknowledges in the name and on behalf of said Trust the foregoing Articles Supplementary to be the duly authorized act of said Trust and hereby certifies to the best of his knowledge, information and belief that the matters and facts set forth herein with respect to the authorization and approval thereof are true in all material respects under the penalties of perjury.
 

Exhibit 3.7
PUBLIC STORAGE, a Maryland real estate investment trust (the ""), hereby certifies to the State Department of Assessments and Taxation of Maryland that:
Trust
FIRST: The articles of amendment and restatement of the Trust's declaration of trust (the "") authorize the issuance of 100,000,000 preferred shares of beneficial interest, par value $.01 per share (the "Preferred Shares"), issuable from time to time in one or more series, and authorize the Trust's board of trustees (the "") to classify or reclassify any unissued shares from time to time by setting or changing the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends, qualifications, or terms or conditions of redemption of such unissued shares.
Declaration of Trust
Board of Trustees
SECOND: In accordance with Section 8-203 of the Maryland REIT Law and pursuant to the authority expressly vested in the Board of Trustees by the Declaration of Trust, the Board of Trustees has duly divided and classified 5,066 Preferred Shares of the Trust as 6.450% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series X ("").
Series X Preferred Shares
THIRD: The following is a description of the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends or distributions, qualifications, and terms and conditions of redemption of the Series X Preferred Shares of the Trust:
(a) .
Dividend Rights
(1) Dividends shall be payable in cash on the shares of this Series when, as and if declared by the Board of Trustees, out of funds legally available therefor: (i) for the period from April 1, 2007 to June 30, 2007, and (ii) for each quarterly dividend period thereafter (each quarterly dividend period thereafter being hereinafter individually referred to as a "" and collectively referred to as ""), which quarterly Dividend Periods shall be in four equal amounts and shall commence on January 1, April 1, July 1 and October 1 in each year (each, a ""), and shall end on and include the day next preceding the next Dividend Period Commencement Date, at a rate per annum equal to 6.450% of the $25,000 per share stated value thereof. Dividends on each share of this Series shall be cumulative from April 1, 2007 and shall be payable, without interest thereon, when, as and if declared by the Board of Trustees, on or before March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 of each year; , that if any such day shall be a Saturday, Sunday, or a day on which banking institutions in the State of New York or the State of California are authorized or obligated by law to close, or a day which is or is declared a national or a New York or California state holiday (any of the foregoing a ""), then the payment date shall be the next succeeding day which is not a Non-Business Day. Each such dividend shall be paid to the holders of record of shares of this Series as they appear on the share
Dividend Period
Dividend Periods
Dividend Period Commencement Date
provided
Non-Business Day
register of the Trust on such record date, not more than 45 days nor less than 15 days preceding the payment date thereof, as shall be fixed by the Board of Trustees. Dividends on account of arrears for any past Dividend Periods may be declared and paid at any time, without reference to any regular dividend payment date, to holders of record on such date, not more than 45 days nor less than 15 days preceding the payment date thereof, as may be fixed by the Board of Trustees. After full cumulative dividends on this Series have been paid or declared and funds therefor set aside for payment, including for the then current Dividend Period, the holders of shares of this Series will not be entitled to any further dividends with respect to that Dividend Period.
(2) Dividends payable on shares of this Series for any period greater or less than a full Dividend Period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.
(3) The Trust shall not declare or pay or set apart for payment any dividends on any series of Preferred Shares ranking, as to dividends, on a parity with or junior to the shares of this Series unless full cumulative dividends have been or contemporaneously are declared and paid, or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof is set apart for payment, on the shares of this Series for all Dividend Periods terminating on or prior to the date of payment of any such dividends on such other series of Preferred Shares. When dividends are not paid in full upon the shares of this Series and any other series of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity therewith as to dividends (including, without limitation, the Trust's 6.125% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series A, 7.125% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series B, 6.600% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series C, 6.180% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series D, 6.750% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series E, 6.450% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series F, 7.000% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series G, 6.950% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series H, 7.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series I, 7.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series J, 7.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series K, 6.750% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series L, 6.625% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series M, 6.400% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series NN, 7.500% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series V, 6.500% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series W, 6.850% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series Y, 6.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series Z (all of the foregoing, collectively the ""), all dividends declared upon shares of this Series and any other series of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity therewith as to dividends shall be declared pro rata so that the amount of dividends declared per share on the shares of this Series and such other series of Preferred Shares shall in all cases bear to each other that same ratio that the accumulated dividends per share on the shares of this Series and such other series of Preferred Shares bear to each other. Except as provided in the preceding sentence, unless full cumulative dividends on the shares of this Series have been paid, or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof is set apart for payment, for all past Dividend Periods, no dividends (other than in the Trust's common shares, par value $.10 per share (together with any other shares of beneficial interest of the Trust into which such shares shall be reclassified or changed ("")), or shares of beneficial interest ranking junior to the shares of this Series as to dividends and upon liquidation) shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment nor shall any other distribution be made upon the Common Shares or on any other shares of beneficial interest of the Trust ranking junior to or on a parity with the shares of this Series as to dividends or upon liquidation. Unless full cumulative dividends on the shares of this Series have been paid, or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof is set apart for payment, for all past Dividend Periods, no
Parity Preferred Shares
Common Shares
 
Common Shares or any other shares of beneficial interest of the Trust ranking junior to or on a parity with the shares of this Series as to dividends or upon liquidation shall be redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired for any consideration (or any moneys be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any shares of any such shares of beneficial interest) by the Trust or any subsidiary, except by conversion into or exchange for shares of beneficial interest of the Trust ranking junior to the shares of this Series as to dividends and upon liquidation.
(b) .
Liquidation
In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Trust, the holders of the shares of this Series are entitled to receive out of the assets of the Trust available for distribution to shareholders, before any distribution of assets is made to holders of Common Shares or any other class or series of shares ranking junior to the shares of this Series upon liquidation, liquidating distributions in the amount of $25,000 per share plus all accumulated and unpaid dividends (whether or not earned or declared) for the then current and all past Dividend Periods. If, upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Trust, the amounts payable with respect to the shares of this Series and any other shares of the Trust ranking as to any such distribution on a parity with the shares of this Series are not paid in full, the holders of shares of this Series and of such other shares (including the Parity Preferred Shares) will share ratably in any such distribution of assets of the Trust in proportion to the full respective preferential amounts to which they are entitled. After payment of the full amount of the liquidating distribution to which they are entitled, the holders of shares of this Series will not be entitled to any further participation in any distribution of assets by the Trust.
(1) Written notice of any such liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Trust, stating the payment date or dates when, and the place or places where the amounts distributable in such circumstances shall be payable, shall be given by first class mail, postage pre-paid, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the payment date stated therein, to each record holder of the shares of this Series at the respective addresses of such holders as the same shall appear on the share transfer records of the Trust.
(2) For purposes of liquidation rights, a reorganization, consolidation or merger of the Trust with or into any other entity or entities or a sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Trust shall be deemed not to be a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Trust.
(c) .
Redemption
(1) Except as provided in clause (9) below, the shares of this Series are not redeemable prior to November 13, 2008. On and after such date, the shares of this Series are redeemable at the option of the Trust, by resolution of the Board of Trustees, in whole or in part, from time to time upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' notice, at a cash redemption price of $25,000 per share plus all accumulated and unpaid dividends (whether or not earned or declared) to the date of redemption.
 
(2) If fewer than all the outstanding shares of this Series are to be redeemed, the number of shares to be redeemed will be determined by the Board of Trustees, and such shares shall be redeemed pro rata from the holders of record of such shares in proportion to the number of such shares held by such holders (with adjustments to avoid redemption of fractional shares) or by lot in a manner determined by the Board of Trustees.
(3) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any dividends, including any accumulation, on the shares of this Series are in arrears, no shares of this Series shall be redeemed unless all outstanding shares of this Series are simultaneously redeemed, and the Trust shall not purchase or otherwise acquire, directly or indirectly, any shares of this Series; , , that the foregoing shall not prevent the purchase or acquisition of shares of this Series pursuant to a purchase or exchange offer provided such offer is made on the same terms to all holders of shares of this Series.
provided
however
(4) Immediately prior to any redemption of shares of this Series, the Trust shall pay, in cash, any accumulated and unpaid dividends through the redemption date, unless a redemption date falls after a dividend payment record date and prior to the corresponding dividend payment date, in which case each holder of shares of this Series at the close of business on such dividend payment record date shall be entitled to the dividend payable on such shares on the corresponding dividend payment date notwithstanding the redemption of such shares before such dividend payment date. Except as expressly provided herein above, the Trust shall make no payment or allowance for unpaid dividends, whether or not in arrears, on shares of this Series called for redemption.
(5) Notice of redemption shall be given by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the County of Los Angeles and the City of New York, such publication to be made once a week for two successive weeks, commencing not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for redemption thereof. A similar notice will be mailed by the Trust by first class mail, postage pre-paid, to each record holder of the shares of this Series to be redeemed, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to such redemption date, to the respective addresses of such holders as the same shall appear on the share transfer records of the Trust. Each notice shall state: (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accumulate on such redemption date. If fewer than all the shares of this Series held by any holder are to be redeemed, the notice mailed to such holder shall also specify the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed from such holder.
(6) In order to facilitate the redemption of shares of this Series, the Board of Trustees may fix a record date for the determination of the shares to be redeemed, such record date to be not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for such redemption.
(7) Notice having been given as provided above, from and after the date fixed for the redemption of shares of this Series by the Trust (unless the Trust shall fail to make available the money necessary to effect such redemption), the holders of shares selected for redemption shall cease to be shareholders with respect to such shares and shall have no interest in or claim against the Trust by virtue thereof and shall have no voting or other rights with
 
respect to such shares, except the right to receive the moneys payable upon such redemption from the Trust, less any required tax withholding amount, without interest thereon, upon surrender (and endorsement or assignment of transfer, if required by the Trust and so stated in the notice) of their certificates, and the shares represented thereby shall no longer be deemed to be outstanding. If fewer than all the shares represented by a certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued, without cost to the holder thereof, representing the unredeemed shares. The Trust may, at its option, at any time after a notice of redemption has been given, deposit the redemption price for the shares of this Series designated for redemption and not yet redeemed, plus any accumulated and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for redemption, with the transfer agent or agents for this Series, as a trust fund for the benefit of the holders of the shares of this Series designated for redemption, together with irrevocable instructions and authority to such transfer agent or agents that such funds be delivered upon redemption of such shares and to pay, on and after the date fixed for redemption or prior thereto, the redemption price of the shares to their respective holders upon the surrender of their share certificates. From and after the making of such deposit, the holders of the shares designated for redemption shall cease to be shareholders with respect to such shares and shall have no interest in or claim against the Trust by virtue thereof and shall have no voting or other rights with respect to such shares, except the right to receive from such trust fund the moneys payable upon such redemption, without interest thereon, upon surrender (and endorsement or assignment of transfer, if required by the Trust and so stated in the notice) of their certificates, and the shares represented thereby shall no longer be deemed to be outstanding. Any balance of such moneys remaining unclaimed at the end of the five-year period commencing on the date fixed for redemption shall be repaid to the Trust upon its request expressed in a resolution of its Board of Trustees.
(8) Any shares of this Series that shall at any time have been redeemed shall, after such redemption, have the status of authorized but unissued Preferred Shares, without designation as to series until such shares are once more designated as part of a particular series by the Board of Trustees.
(9) If the Board of Trustees shall, at any time and in good faith, be of the opinion that ownership of securities of the Trust has or may become concentrated to an extent that may prevent the Trust from qualifying as a real estate investment trust under the REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, then the Board of Trustees shall have the power, by lot or other means deemed equitable by them to prevent the transfer of and/or to call for redemption a number of shares of this Series sufficient, in the opinion of the Board of Trustees, to maintain or bring the direct or indirect ownership thereof into conformity with the requirements of such a real estate investment trust under the REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. The redemption price to be paid for shares of this Series so called for redemption, on the date fixed for redemption, shall be (i) the closing sale price on any national securities exchange or trading market on which the shares of this Series are listed, or (ii) the last quoted price as reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotation System or any other United States automated inter-dealer quotation system, on the last business day prior to the redemption date, or if the shares of this Series so called for redemption are not listed on any such exchange, trading market or quotation system, at $25,000 per share of this Series (subject to adjustment in the case of share splits, combinations, share dividends and similar transactions); provided that if interests in shares of this Series are represented by depositary shares, then the
 
redemption price shall be determined in accordance with the foregoing, but with respect to one depositary share, multiplied by the number of depositary shares that together represent an interest in one share of this Series. From and after the date fixed for redemption by the Board of Trustees, the holder of any shares of this Series so called for redemption shall cease to be entitled to any distributions, voting rights and other benefits with respect to such shares of this Series, other than the right to payment of the redemption price determined as aforesaid. "REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code" shall mean Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. In order to exercise the redemption option set forth in this clause (9), with respect to the shares of this Series, the Trust shall give notice of redemption by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the County of Los Angeles and the City of New York, such publication to be made once a week for two successive weeks, commencing not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for redemption. A similar notice will be mailed by the Trust by first class mail, postage pre-paid, to each record holder of the shares of this Series to be redeemed, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to such redemption date, to the respective addresses of such holders as the same shall appear on the share transfer records of the Trust. Each notice shall state: (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accumulate on such redemption date. If fewer than all the shares of this Series held by any holder are to be redeemed, the notice mailed to such holder shall also specify the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed from such holder.
(d) . The shares of this Series shall not have any voting powers either general or special, except as required by law and except that:
Voting Rights
(1) If the Trust shall fail to pay full cumulative dividends on the shares of this Series or any other of its Preferred Shares for six quarterly dividend payment periods, whether or not consecutive (a ""), the holders of all outstanding Preferred Shares, voting as a single class without regard to series, will be entitled to elect two Trustees until full cumulative dividends for all past dividend payment periods on all Preferred Shares have been paid or declared and funds therefor set apart for payment. Such right to vote separately as a class to elect Trustees shall, when vested, be subject, always, to the same provisions for the vesting of such right to elect Trustees separately as a class in the case of future Dividend Defaults. At any time when such right to elect Trustees separately as a class shall have so vested, the Trust may, and upon the written request of the holders of record of not less than 20% of the total number of Preferred Shares of the Trust then outstanding shall, call a special meeting of shareholders for the election of Trustees. In the case of such a written request, such special meeting shall be held within 90 days after the delivery of such request and, in either case, at the place and upon the notice provided by law and in the Bylaws of the Trust, provided that the Trust shall not be required to call such a special meeting if such request is received less than 120 days before the date fixed for the next ensuing Annual Meeting of Shareholders of the Trust and the holders of all classes of outstanding Preferred Shares are afforded the opportunity to elect such Trustees (or fill any vacancy) at such Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Trustees elected as aforesaid shall serve until the next Annual Meeting of Shareholders of the Trust or until their respective successors shall be elected and qualified. If, prior to the end of the term of any Trustee elected as aforesaid, a vacancy in the office of such Trustee shall occur during the continuance of a
Dividend Default
 
Dividend Default by reason of death, resignation, or disability, such vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired term by the appointment of a new Trustee for the unexpired term of such former Trustee, such appointment to be made by the remaining Trustee elected as aforesaid.
(2) The affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least 66
2/3 
% of the outstanding shares of this Series, voting separately as a class, will be required for any amendment to the Declaration of Trust that will adversely alter or change the powers, preferences, privileges or rights of the shares of this Series, except as set forth below. The affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least 66
2/3 
% of the outstanding shares of this Series and any other series of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity with this Series as to dividends and upon liquidation (including the Parity Preferred Shares), voting as a single class without regard to series, will be required to issue, authorize or increase the authorized amount of any class or series of shares ranking prior to this Series as to dividends or upon liquidation or to issue or authorize any obligation or security convertible into or evidencing a right to purchase any such security, but the Declaration of Trust may be amended to increase the number of authorized Preferred Shares ranking on a parity with or junior to this Series or to create another class of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity with or junior to this Series without the vote of the holders of outstanding shares of this Series.
(e) . The shares of this Series are not convertible into shares of any other class or series of the shares of beneficial interest of this Trust.
Conversion
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Trust has caused these Articles Supplementary to be signed in its name and on its behalf by its Vice Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President and attested to by its Secretary as of May 30, 2007.
 
THE UNDERSIGNED, the Vice Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President of Public Storage, who executed on behalf of the Trust the foregoing Articles Supplementary of which this certificate is made a part, hereby acknowledges in the name and on behalf of said Trust the foregoing Articles Supplementary to be the duly authorized act of said Trust and hereby certifies to the best of his knowledge, information and belief that the matters and facts set forth herein with respect to the authorization and approval thereof are true in all material respects under the penalties of perjury.
 

Exhibit 3.8
PUBLIC STORAGE, a Maryland real estate investment trust (the ""), hereby certifies to the State Department of Assessments and Taxation of Maryland that:
Trust
FIRST: The articles of amendment and restatement of the Trust's declaration of trust (the "") authorize the issuance of 100,000,000 preferred shares of beneficial interest, par value $.01 per share (the "Preferred Shares"), issuable from time to time in one or more series, and authorize the Trust's board of trustees (the "") to classify or reclassify any unissued shares from time to time by setting or changing the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends, qualifications, or terms or conditions of redemption of such unissued shares.
Declaration of Trust
Board of Trustees
SECOND: In accordance with Section 8-203 of the Maryland REIT Law and pursuant to the authority expressly vested in the Board of Trustees by the Declaration of Trust, the Board of Trustees has duly divided and classified 1,600,000 Preferred Shares of the Trust as 6.850% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series Y ("").
Series Y Preferred Shares
THIRD: The following is a description of the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends or distributions, qualifications, and terms and conditions of redemption of the Series Y Preferred Shares of the Trust:
(a) .
Dividend Rights
(1) Dividends shall be payable in cash on the shares of this Series when, as and if declared by the Board of Trustees, out of funds legally available therefor: (i) for the period from April 1, 2007 to June 30, 2007, and (ii) for each quarterly dividend period thereafter (each quarterly dividend period thereafter being hereinafter individually referred to as a "" and collectively referred to as ""), which quarterly Dividend Periods shall be in four equal amounts and shall commence on January 1, April 1, July 1 and October 1 in each year (each, a ""), and shall end on and include the day next preceding the next Dividend Period Commencement Date, at a rate per annum equal to 6.850% of the $25 per share stated value thereof. Dividends on each share of this Series shall be cumulative from April 1, 2007 and shall be payable, without interest thereon, when, as and if declared by the Board of Trustees, on or before March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 of each year; , that if any such day shall be a Saturday, Sunday, or a day on which banking institutions in the State of New York or the State of California are authorized or obligated by law to close, or a day which is or is declared a national or a New York or California state holiday (any of the foregoing a ""), then the payment date shall be the next succeeding day which is not a Non-Business Day. Each such dividend shall be paid to the holders of record of shares of this Series as they appear on the share register of the Trust on such record date, not more than 45 days nor less than 15 days preceding the payment
Dividend Period
Dividend Periods
Dividend Period Commencement Date
provided
Non-Business Day
date thereof, as shall be fixed by the Board of Trustees. Dividends on account of arrears for any past Dividend Periods may be declared and paid at any time, without reference to any regular dividend payment date, to holders of record on such date, not more than 45 days nor less than 15 days preceding the payment date thereof, as may be fixed by the Board of Trustees. After full cumulative dividends on this Series have been paid or declared and funds therefor set aside for payment, including for the then current Dividend Period, the holders of shares of this Series will not be entitled to any further dividends with respect to that Dividend Period.
(2) Dividends payable on shares of this Series for any period greater or less than a full Dividend Period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.
(3) The Trust shall not declare or pay or set apart for payment any dividends on any series of Preferred Shares ranking, as to dividends, on a parity with or junior to the shares of this Series unless full cumulative dividends have been or contemporaneously are declared and paid, or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof is set apart for payment, on the shares of this Series for all Dividend Periods terminating on or prior to the date of payment of any such dividends on such other series of Preferred Shares. When dividends are not paid in full upon the shares of this Series and any other series of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity therewith as to dividends (including, without limitation, the Trust's 6.125% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series A, 7.125% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series B, 6.600% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series C, 6.180% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series D, 6.750% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series E, 6.450% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series F, 7.000% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series G, 6.950% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series H, 7.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series I, 7.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series J, 7.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series K, 6.750% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series L, 6.625% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series M, 6.400% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series NN, 7.500% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series V, 6.500% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series W, 6.450% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series X, 6.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series Z (all of the foregoing, collectively the ""), all dividends declared upon shares of this Series and any other series of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity therewith as to dividends shall be declared pro rata so that the amount of dividends declared per share on the shares of this Series and such other series of Preferred Shares shall in all cases bear to each other that same ratio that the accumulated dividends per share on the shares of this Series and such other series of Preferred Shares bear to each other. Except as provided in the preceding sentence, unless full cumulative dividends on the shares of this Series have been paid, or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof is set apart for payment, for all past Dividend Periods, no dividends (other than in the Trust's common shares, par value $.10 per share (together with any other shares of beneficial interest of the Trust into which such shares shall be reclassified or changed ("")), or shares of beneficial interest ranking junior to the shares of this Series as to dividends and upon liquidation) shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment nor shall any other distribution be made upon the Common Shares or on any other shares of beneficial interest of the Trust ranking junior to or on a parity with the shares of this Series as to dividends or upon liquidation. Unless full cumulative dividends on the shares of this Series have been paid, or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof is set apart for payment, for all past Dividend Periods, no Common Shares or any other shares of beneficial interest of the Trust ranking junior to or on a
Parity Preferred Shares
Common Shares
 
parity with the shares of this Series as to dividends or upon liquidation shall be redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired for any consideration (or any moneys be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any shares of any such shares of beneficial interest) by the Trust or any subsidiary, except by conversion into or exchange for shares of beneficial interest of the Trust ranking junior to the shares of this Series as to dividends and upon liquidation.
(b) .
Liquidation
In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Trust, the holders of the shares of this Series are entitled to receive out of the assets of the Trust available for distribution to shareholders, before any distribution of assets is made to holders of Common Shares or any other class or series of shares ranking junior to the shares of this Series upon liquidation, liquidating distributions in the amount of $25 per share plus all accumulated and unpaid dividends (whether or not earned or declared) for the then current and all past Dividend Periods. If, upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Trust, the amounts payable with respect to the shares of this Series and any other shares of the Trust ranking as to any such distribution on a parity with the shares of this Series are not paid in full, the holders of shares of this Series and of such other shares (including the Parity Preferred Shares) will share ratably in any such distribution of assets of the Trust in proportion to the full respective preferential amounts to which they are entitled. After payment of the full amount of the liquidating distribution to which they are entitled, the holders of shares of this Series will not be entitled to any further participation in any distribution of assets by the Trust.
(1) Written notice of any such liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Trust, stating the payment date or dates when, and the place or places where the amounts distributable in such circumstances shall be payable, shall be given by first class mail, postage pre-paid, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the payment date stated therein, to each record holder of the shares of this Series at the respective addresses of such holders as the same shall appear on the share transfer records of the Trust.
(2) For purposes of liquidation rights, a reorganization, consolidation or merger of the Trust with or into any other entity or entities or a sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Trust shall be deemed not to be a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Trust.
(c) .
Redemption
(1) Except as provided in clause (9) below, the shares of this Series are not redeemable prior to January 7, 2009. On and after such date, the shares of this Series are redeemable at the option of the Trust, by resolution of the Board of Trustees, in whole or in part, from time to time upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' notice, at a cash redemption price of $25 per share plus all accumulated and unpaid dividends (whether or not earned or declared) to the date of redemption.
 
(2) If fewer than all the outstanding shares of this Series are to be redeemed, the number of shares to be redeemed will be determined by the Board of Trustees, and such shares shall be redeemed pro rata from the holders of record of such shares in proportion to the number of such shares held by such holders (with adjustments to avoid redemption of fractional shares) or by lot in a manner determined by the Board of Trustees.
(3) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any dividends, including any accumulation, on the shares of this Series are in arrears, no shares of this Series shall be redeemed unless all outstanding shares of this Series are simultaneously redeemed, and the Trust shall not purchase or otherwise acquire, directly or indirectly, any shares of this Series; , , that the foregoing shall not prevent the purchase or acquisition of shares of this Series pursuant to a purchase or exchange offer provided such offer is made on the same terms to all holders of shares of this Series.
provided
however
(4) Immediately prior to any redemption of shares of this Series, the Trust shall pay, in cash, any accumulated and unpaid dividends through the redemption date, unless a redemption date falls after a dividend payment record date and prior to the corresponding dividend payment date, in which case each holder of shares of this Series at the close of business on such dividend payment record date shall be entitled to the dividend payable on such shares on the corresponding dividend payment date notwithstanding the redemption of such shares before such dividend payment date. Except as expressly provided herein above, the Trust shall make no payment or allowance for unpaid dividends, whether or not in arrears, on shares of this Series called for redemption.
(5) Notice of redemption shall be given by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the County of Los Angeles and the City of New York, such publication to be made once a week for two successive weeks, commencing not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for redemption thereof. A similar notice will be mailed by the Trust by first class mail, postage pre-paid, to each record holder of the shares of this Series to be redeemed, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to such redemption date, to the respective addresses of such holders as the same shall appear on the share transfer records of the Trust. Each notice shall state: (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accumulate on such redemption date. If fewer than all the shares of this Series held by any holder are to be redeemed, the notice mailed to such holder shall also specify the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed from such holder.
(6) In order to facilitate the redemption of shares of this Series, the Board of Trustees may fix a record date for the determination of the shares to be redeemed, such record date to be not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for such redemption.
(7) Notice having been given as provided above, from and after the date fixed for the redemption of shares of this Series by the Trust (unless the Trust shall fail to make available the money necessary to effect such redemption), the holders of shares selected for redemption shall cease to be shareholders with respect to such shares and shall have no interest in or claim against the Trust by virtue thereof and shall have no voting or other rights with
 
respect to such shares, except the right to receive the moneys payable upon such redemption from the Trust, less any required tax withholding amount, without interest thereon, upon surrender (and endorsement or assignment of transfer, if required by the Trust and so stated in the notice) of their certificates, and the shares represented thereby shall no longer be deemed to be outstanding. If fewer than all the shares represented by a certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued, without cost to the holder thereof, representing the unredeemed shares. The Trust may, at its option, at any time after a notice of redemption has been given, deposit the redemption price for the shares of this Series designated for redemption and not yet redeemed, plus any accumulated and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for redemption, with the transfer agent or agents for this Series, as a trust fund for the benefit of the holders of the shares of this Series designated for redemption, together with irrevocable instructions and authority to such transfer agent or agents that such funds be delivered upon redemption of such shares and to pay, on and after the date fixed for redemption or prior thereto, the redemption price of the shares to their respective holders upon the surrender of their share certificates. From and after the making of such deposit, the holders of the shares designated for redemption shall cease to be shareholders with respect to such shares and shall have no interest in or claim against the Trust by virtue thereof and shall have no voting or other rights with respect to such shares, except the right to receive from such trust fund the moneys payable upon such redemption, without interest thereon, upon surrender (and endorsement or assignment of transfer, if required by the Trust and so stated in the notice) of their certificates, and the shares represented thereby shall no longer be deemed to be outstanding. Any balance of such moneys remaining unclaimed at the end of the five-year period commencing on the date fixed for redemption shall be repaid to the Trust upon its request expressed in a resolution of its Board of Trustees.
(8) Any shares of this Series that shall at any time have been redeemed shall, after such redemption, have the status of authorized but unissued Preferred Shares, without designation as to series until such shares are once more designated as part of a particular series by the Board of Trustees.
(9) If the Board of Trustees shall, at any time and in good faith, be of the opinion that ownership of securities of the Trust has or may become concentrated to an extent that may prevent the Trust from qualifying as a real estate investment trust under the REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, then the Board of Trustees shall have the power, by lot or other means deemed equitable by them to prevent the transfer of and/or to call for redemption a number of shares of this Series sufficient, in the opinion of the Board of Trustees, to maintain or bring the direct or indirect ownership thereof into conformity with the requirements of such a real estate investment trust under the REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. The redemption price to be paid for shares of this Series so called for redemption, on the date fixed for redemption, shall be (i) the closing sale price on any national securities exchange or trading market on which the shares of this Series are listed, or (ii) the last quoted price as reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotation System or any other United States automated inter-dealer quotation system, on the last business day prior to the redemption date, or if the shares of this Series so called for redemption are not listed on any such exchange, trading market or quotation system, at $25 per share of this Series (subject to adjustment in the case of share splits, combinations, share dividends and similar transactions); provided that if interests in shares of this Series are represented by depositary shares, then the
 
redemption price shall be determined in accordance with the foregoing, but with respect to one depositary share, multiplied by the number of depositary shares that together represent an interest in one share of this Series. From and after the date fixed for redemption by the Board of Trustees, the holder of any shares of this Series so called for redemption shall cease to be entitled to any distributions, voting rights and other benefits with respect to such shares of this Series, other than the right to payment of the redemption price determined as aforesaid. "REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code" shall mean Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. In order to exercise the redemption option set forth in this clause (9), with respect to the shares of this Series, the Trust shall give notice of redemption by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the County of Los Angeles and the City of New York, such publication to be made once a week for two successive weeks, commencing not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for redemption. A similar notice will be mailed by the Trust by first class mail, postage pre-paid, to each record holder of the shares of this Series to be redeemed, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to such redemption date, to the respective addresses of such holders as the same shall appear on the share transfer records of the Trust. Each notice shall state: (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accumulate on such redemption date. If fewer than all the shares of this Series held by any holder are to be redeemed, the notice mailed to such holder shall also specify the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed from such holder.
(d) . The shares of this Series shall not have any voting powers either general or special, except as required by law and except that:
Voting Rights
(1) If the Trust shall fail to pay full cumulative dividends on the shares of this Series or any other of its Preferred Shares for six quarterly dividend payment periods, whether or not consecutive (a ""), the holders of all outstanding Preferred Shares, voting as a single class without regard to series, will be entitled to elect two Trustees until full cumulative dividends for all past dividend payment periods on all Preferred Shares have been paid or declared and funds therefor set apart for payment. Such right to vote separately as a class to elect Trustees shall, when vested, be subject, always, to the same provisions for the vesting of such right to elect Trustees separately as a class in the case of future Dividend Defaults. At any time when such right to elect Trustees separately as a class shall have so vested, the Trust may, and upon the written request of the holders of record of not less than 20% of the total number of Preferred Shares of the Trust then outstanding shall, call a special meeting of shareholders for the election of Trustees. In the case of such a written request, such special meeting shall be held within 90 days after the delivery of such request and, in either case, at the place and upon the notice provided by law and in the Bylaws of the Trust, provided that the Trust shall not be required to call such a special meeting if such request is received less than 120 days before the date fixed for the next ensuing Annual Meeting of Shareholders of the Trust and the holders of all classes of outstanding Preferred Shares are afforded the opportunity to elect such Trustees (or fill any vacancy) at such Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Trustees elected as aforesaid shall serve until the next Annual Meeting of Shareholders of the Trust or until their respective successors shall be elected and qualified. If, prior to the end of the term of any Trustee elected as aforesaid, a vacancy in the office of such Trustee shall occur during the continuance of a
Dividend Default
 
Dividend Default by reason of death, resignation, or disability, such vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired term by the appointment of a new Trustee for the unexpired term of such former Trustee, such appointment to be made by the remaining Trustee elected as aforesaid.
(2) The affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least 66
2/3 
% of the outstanding shares of this Series, voting separately as a class, will be required for any amendment to the Declaration of Trust that will adversely alter or change the powers, preferences, privileges or rights of the shares of this Series, except as set forth below. The affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least 66
2/3 
% of the outstanding shares of this Series and any other series of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity with this Series as to dividends and upon liquidation (including the Parity Preferred Shares), voting as a single class without regard to series, will be required to issue, authorize or increase the authorized amount of any class or series of shares ranking prior to this Series as to dividends or upon liquidation or to issue or authorize any obligation or security convertible into or evidencing a right to purchase any such security, but the Declaration of Trust may be amended to increase the number of authorized Preferred Shares ranking on a parity with or junior to this Series or to create another class of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity with or junior to this Series without the vote of the holders of outstanding shares of this Series.
(e) . The shares of this Series are not convertible into shares of any other class or series of the shares of beneficial interest of this Trust.
Conversion
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Trust has caused these Articles Supplementary to be signed in its name and on its behalf by its Vice Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President and attested to by its Secretary as of May 30, 2007.
 
THE UNDERSIGNED, the Vice Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President of Public Storage, who executed on behalf of the Trust the foregoing Articles Supplementary of which this certificate is made a part, hereby acknowledges in the name and on behalf of said Trust the foregoing Articles Supplementary to be the duly authorized act of said Trust and hereby certifies to the best of his knowledge, information and belief that the matters and facts set forth herein with respect to the authorization and approval thereof are true in all material respects under the penalties of perjury.
 

Exhibit 3.9
PUBLIC STORAGE, a Maryland real estate investment trust (the ""), hereby certifies to the State Department of Assessments and Taxation of Maryland that:
Trust
FIRST: The articles of amendment and restatement of the Trust's declaration of trust (the "") authorize the issuance of 100,000,000 preferred shares of beneficial interest, par value $.01 per share (the "Preferred Shares"), issuable from time to time in one or more series, and authorize the Trust's board of trustees (the "") to classify or reclassify any unissued shares from time to time by setting or changing the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends, qualifications, or terms or conditions of redemption of such unissued shares.
Declaration of Trust
Board of Trustees
SECOND: In accordance with Section 8-203 of the Maryland REIT Law and pursuant to the authority expressly vested in the Board of Trustees by the Declaration of Trust, the Board of Trustees has duly divided and classified 4,600 Preferred Shares of the Trust as 6.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series Z ("").
Series Z Preferred Shares
THIRD: The following is a description of the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends or distributions, qualifications, and terms and conditions of redemption of the Series Z Preferred Shares of the Trust:
(a) .
Dividend Rights
(1) Dividends shall be payable in cash on the shares of this Series when, as and if declared by the Board of Trustees, out of funds legally available therefor: (i) for the period from April 1, 2007 to June 30, 2007, and (ii) for each quarterly dividend period thereafter (each quarterly dividend period thereafter being hereinafter individually referred to as a "" and collectively referred to as ""), which quarterly Dividend Periods shall be in four equal amounts and shall commence on January 1, April 1, July 1 and October 1 in each year (each, a ""), and shall end on and include the day next preceding the next Dividend Period Commencement Date, at a rate per annum equal to 6.250% of the $25,000 per share stated value thereof. Dividends on each share of this Series shall be cumulative from April 1, 2007 and shall be payable, without interest thereon, when, as and if declared by the Board of Trustees, on or before March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 of each year; , that if any such day shall be a Saturday, Sunday, or a day on which banking institutions in the State of New York or the State of California are authorized or obligated by law to close, or a day which is or is declared a national or a New York or California state holiday (any of the foregoing a ""), then the payment date shall be the next succeeding day which is not a Non-Business Day. Each such dividend shall be paid to the holders of record of shares of this Series as they appear on the share
Dividend Period
Dividend Periods
Dividend Period Commencement Date
provided
Non-Business Day
register of the Trust on such record date, not more than 45 days nor less than 15 days preceding the payment date thereof, as shall be fixed by the Board of Trustees. Dividends on account of arrears for any past Dividend Periods may be declared and paid at any time, without reference to any regular dividend payment date, to holders of record on such date, not more than 45 days nor less than 15 days preceding the payment date thereof, as may be fixed by the Board of Trustees. After full cumulative dividends on this Series have been paid or declared and funds therefor set aside for payment, including for the then current Dividend Period, the holders of shares of this Series will not be entitled to any further dividends with respect to that Dividend Period.
(2) Dividends payable on shares of this Series for any period greater or less than a full Dividend Period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.
(3) The Trust shall not declare or pay or set apart for payment any dividends on any series of Preferred Shares ranking, as to dividends, on a parity with or junior to the shares of this Series unless full cumulative dividends have been or contemporaneously are declared and paid, or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof is set apart for payment, on the shares of this Series for all Dividend Periods terminating on or prior to the date of payment of any such dividends on such other series of Preferred Shares. When dividends are not paid in full upon the shares of this Series and any other series of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity therewith as to dividends (including, without limitation, the Trust's 6.125% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series A, 7.125% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series B, 6.600% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series C, 6.180% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series D, 6.750% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series E, 6.450% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series F, 7.000% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series G, 6.950% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series H, 7.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series I, 7.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series J, 7.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series K, 6.750% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series L, 6.625% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series M, 6.400% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series NN, 7.500% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series V, 6.500% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series W, 6.450% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series X, 6.850% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series Y (all of the foregoing, collectively the ""), all dividends declared upon shares of this Series and any other series of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity therewith as to dividends shall be declared pro rata so that the amount of dividends declared per share on the shares of this Series and such other series of Preferred Shares shall in all cases bear to each other that same ratio that the accumulated dividends per share on the shares of this Series and such other series of Preferred Shares bear to each other. Except as provided in the preceding sentence, unless full cumulative dividends on the shares of this Series have been paid, or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof is set apart for payment, for all past Dividend Periods, no dividends (other than in the Trust's common shares, par value $.10 per share (together with any other shares of beneficial interest of the Trust into which such shares shall be reclassified or changed ("")), or shares of beneficial interest ranking junior to the shares of this Series as to dividends and upon liquidation) shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment nor shall any other distribution be made upon the Common Shares or on any other shares of beneficial interest of the Trust ranking junior to or on a parity with the shares of this Series as to dividends or upon liquidation. Unless full cumulative dividends on the shares of this Series have been paid, or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof is set apart for payment, for all past Dividend Periods, no
Parity Preferred Shares
Common Shares
 
Common Shares or any other shares of beneficial interest of the Trust ranking junior to or on a parity with the shares of this Series as to dividends or upon liquidation shall be redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired for any consideration (or any moneys be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any shares of any such shares of beneficial interest) by the Trust or any subsidiary, except by conversion into or exchange for shares of beneficial interest of the Trust ranking junior to the shares of this Series as to dividends and upon liquidation.
(b) .
Liquidation
In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Trust, the holders of the shares of this Series are entitled to receive out of the assets of the Trust available for distribution to shareholders, before any distribution of assets is made to holders of Common Shares or any other class or series of shares ranking junior to the shares of this Series upon liquidation, liquidating distributions in the amount of $25,000 per share plus all accumulated and unpaid dividends (whether or not earned or declared) for the then current and all past Dividend Periods. If, upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Trust, the amounts payable with respect to the shares of this Series and any other shares of the Trust ranking as to any such distribution on a parity with the shares of this Series are not paid in full, the holders of shares of this Series and of such other shares (including the Parity Preferred Shares) will share ratably in any such distribution of assets of the Trust in proportion to the full respective preferential amounts to which they are entitled. After payment of the full amount of the liquidating distribution to which they are entitled, the holders of shares of this Series will not be entitled to any further participation in any distribution of assets by the Trust.
(1) Written notice of any such liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Trust, stating the payment date or dates when, and the place or places where the amounts distributable in such circumstances shall be payable, shall be given by first class mail, postage pre-paid, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the payment date stated therein, to each record holder of the shares of this Series at the respective addresses of such holders as the same shall appear on the share transfer records of the Trust.
(2) For purposes of liquidation rights, a reorganization, consolidation or merger of the Trust with or into any other entity or entities or a sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Trust shall be deemed not to be a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Trust.
(c) .
Redemption
(1) Except as provided in clause (9) below, the shares of this Series are not redeemable prior to March 5, 2009. On and after such date, the shares of this Series are redeemable at the option of the Trust, by resolution of the Board of Trustees, in whole or in part, from time to time upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' notice, at a cash redemption price of $25,000 per share plus all accumulated and unpaid dividends (whether or not earned or declared) to the date of redemption.
 
(2) If fewer than all the outstanding shares of this Series are to be redeemed, the number of shares to be redeemed will be determined by the Board of Trustees, and such shares shall be redeemed pro rata from the holders of record of such shares in proportion to the number of such shares held by such holders (with adjustments to avoid redemption of fractional shares) or by lot in a manner determined by the Board of Trustees.
(3) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any dividends, including any accumulation, on the shares of this Series are in arrears, no shares of this Series shall be redeemed unless all outstanding shares of this Series are simultaneously redeemed, and the Trust shall not purchase or otherwise acquire, directly or indirectly, any shares of this Series; , , that the foregoing shall not prevent the purchase or acquisition of shares of this Series pursuant to a purchase or exchange offer provided such offer is made on the same terms to all holders of shares of this Series.
provided
however
(4) Immediately prior to any redemption of shares of this Series, the Trust shall pay, in cash, any accumulated and unpaid dividends through the redemption date, unless a redemption date falls after a dividend payment record date and prior to the corresponding dividend payment date, in which case each holder of shares of this Series at the close of business on such dividend payment record date shall be entitled to the dividend payable on such shares on the corresponding dividend payment date notwithstanding the redemption of such shares before such dividend payment date. Except as expressly provided herein above, the Trust shall make no payment or allowance for unpaid dividends, whether or not in arrears, on shares of this Series called for redemption.
(5) Notice of redemption shall be given by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the County of Los Angeles and the City of New York, such publication to be made once a week for two successive weeks, commencing not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for redemption thereof. A similar notice will be mailed by the Trust by first class mail, postage pre-paid, to each record holder of the shares of this Series to be redeemed, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to such redemption date, to the respective addresses of such holders as the same shall appear on the share transfer records of the Trust. Each notice shall state: (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accumulate on such redemption date. If fewer than all the shares of this Series held by any holder are to be redeemed, the notice mailed to such holder shall also specify the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed from such holder.
(6) In order to facilitate the redemption of shares of this Series, the Board of Trustees may fix a record date for the determination of the shares to be redeemed, such record date to be not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for such redemption.
(7) Notice having been given as provided above, from and after the date fixed for the redemption of shares of this Series by the Trust (unless the Trust shall fail to make available the money necessary to effect such redemption), the holders of shares selected for redemption shall cease to be shareholders with respect to such shares and shall have no interest in or claim against the Trust by virtue thereof and shall have no voting or other rights with
 
respect to such shares, except the right to receive the moneys payable upon such redemption from the Trust, less any required tax withholding amount, without interest thereon, upon surrender (and endorsement or assignment of transfer, if required by the Trust and so stated in the notice) of their certificates, and the shares represented thereby shall no longer be deemed to be outstanding. If fewer than all the shares represented by a certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued, without cost to the holder thereof, representing the unredeemed shares. The Trust may, at its option, at any time after a notice of redemption has been given, deposit the redemption price for the shares of this Series designated for redemption and not yet redeemed, plus any accumulated and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for redemption, with the transfer agent or agents for this Series, as a trust fund for the benefit of the holders of the shares of this Series designated for redemption, together with irrevocable instructions and authority to such transfer agent or agents that such funds be delivered upon redemption of such shares and to pay, on and after the date fixed for redemption or prior thereto, the redemption price of the shares to their respective holders upon the surrender of their share certificates. From and after the making of such deposit, the holders of the shares designated for redemption shall cease to be shareholders with respect to such shares and shall have no interest in or claim against the Trust by virtue thereof and shall have no voting or other rights with respect to such shares, except the right to receive from such trust fund the moneys payable upon such redemption, without interest thereon, upon surrender (and endorsement or assignment of transfer, if required by the Trust and so stated in the notice) of their certificates, and the shares represented thereby shall no longer be deemed to be outstanding. Any balance of such moneys remaining unclaimed at the end of the five-year period commencing on the date fixed for redemption shall be repaid to the Trust upon its request expressed in a resolution of its Board of Trustees.
(8) Any shares of this Series that shall at any time have been redeemed shall, after such redemption, have the status of authorized but unissued Preferred Shares, without designation as to series until such shares are once more designated as part of a particular series by the Board of Trustees.
(9) If the Board of Trustees shall, at any time and in good faith, be of the opinion that ownership of securities of the Trust has or may become concentrated to an extent that may prevent the Trust from qualifying as a real estate investment trust under the REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, then the Board of Trustees shall have the power, by lot or other means deemed equitable by them to prevent the transfer of and/or to call for redemption a number of shares of this Series sufficient, in the opinion of the Board of Trustees, to maintain or bring the direct or indirect ownership thereof into conformity with the requirements of such a real estate investment trust under the REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. The redemption price to be paid for shares of this Series so called for redemption, on the date fixed for redemption, shall be (i) the closing sale price on any national securities exchange or trading market on which the shares of this Series are listed, or (ii) the last quoted price as reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotation System or any other United States automated inter-dealer quotation system, on the last business day prior to the redemption date, or if the shares of this Series so called for redemption are not listed on any such exchange, trading market or quotation system, at $25,000 per share of this Series (subject to adjustment in the case of share splits, combinations, share dividends and similar transactions); provided that if interests in shares of this Series are represented by depositary shares, then the
 
redemption price shall be determined in accordance with the foregoing, but with respect to one depositary share, multiplied by the number of depositary shares that together represent an interest in one share of this Series. From and after the date fixed for redemption by the Board of Trustees, the holder of any shares of this Series so called for redemption shall cease to be entitled to any distributions, voting rights and other benefits with respect to such shares of this Series, other than the right to payment of the redemption price determined as aforesaid. "REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code" shall mean Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. In order to exercise the redemption option set forth in this clause (9), with respect to the shares of this Series, the Trust shall give notice of redemption by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the County of Los Angeles and the City of New York, such publication to be made once a week for two successive weeks, commencing not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for redemption. A similar notice will be mailed by the Trust by first class mail, postage pre-paid, to each record holder of the shares of this Series to be redeemed, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to such redemption date, to the respective addresses of such holders as the same shall appear on the share transfer records of the Trust. Each notice shall state: (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accumulate on such redemption date. If fewer than all the shares of this Series held by any holder are to be redeemed, the notice mailed to such holder shall also specify the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed from such holder.
(d) . The shares of this Series shall not have any voting powers either general or special, except as required by law and except that:
Voting Rights
(1) If the Trust shall fail to pay full cumulative dividends on the shares of this Series or any other of its Preferred Shares for six quarterly dividend payment periods, whether or not consecutive (a ""), the holders of all outstanding Preferred Shares, voting as a single class without regard to series, will be entitled to elect two Trustees until full cumulative dividends for all past dividend payment periods on all Preferred Shares have been paid or declared and funds therefor set apart for payment. Such right to vote separately as a class to elect Trustees shall, when vested, be subject, always, to the same provisions for the vesting of such right to elect Trustees separately as a class in the case of future Dividend Defaults. At any time when such right to elect Trustees separately as a class shall have so vested, the Trust may, and upon the written request of the holders of record of not less than 20% of the total number of Preferred Shares of the Trust then outstanding shall, call a special meeting of shareholders for the election of Trustees. In the case of such a written request, such special meeting shall be held within 90 days after the delivery of such request and, in either case, at the place and upon the notice provided by law and in the Bylaws of the Trust, provided that the Trust shall not be required to call such a special meeting if such request is received less than 120 days before the date fixed for the next ensuing Annual Meeting of Shareholders of the Trust and the holders of all classes of outstanding Preferred Shares are afforded the opportunity to elect such Trustees (or fill any vacancy) at such Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Trustees elected as aforesaid shall serve until the next Annual Meeting of Shareholders of the Trust or until their respective successors shall be elected and qualified. If, prior to the end of the term of any Trustee elected as aforesaid, a vacancy in the office of such Trustee shall occur during the continuance of a
Dividend Default
 
Dividend Default by reason of death, resignation, or disability, such vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired term by the appointment of a new Trustee for the unexpired term of such former Trustee, such appointment to be made by the remaining Trustee elected as aforesaid.
(2) The affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least 66
2/3 
% of the outstanding shares of this Series, voting separately as a class, will be required for any amendment to the Declaration of Trust that will adversely alter or change the powers, preferences, privileges or rights of the shares of this Series, except as set forth below. The affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least 66
2/3 
% of the outstanding shares of this Series and any other series of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity with this Series as to dividends and upon liquidation (including the Parity Preferred Shares), voting as a single class without regard to series, will be required to issue, authorize or increase the authorized amount of any class or series of shares ranking prior to this Series as to dividends or upon liquidation or to issue or authorize any obligation or security convertible into or evidencing a right to purchase any such security, but the Declaration of Trust may be amended to increase the number of authorized Preferred Shares ranking on a parity with or junior to this Series or to create another class of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity with or junior to this Series without the vote of the holders of outstanding shares of this Series.
(e) . The shares of this Series are not convertible into shares of any other class or series of the shares of beneficial interest of this Trust.
Conversion
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Trust has caused these Articles Supplementary to be signed in its name and on its behalf by its Vice Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President and attested to by its Secretary as of May 30, 2007.
 
THE UNDERSIGNED, the Vice Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President of Public Storage, who executed on behalf of the Trust the foregoing Articles Supplementary of which this certificate is made a part, hereby acknowledges in the name and on behalf of said Trust the foregoing Articles Supplementary to be the duly authorized act of said Trust and hereby certifies to the best of his knowledge, information and belief that the matters and facts set forth herein with respect to the authorization and approval thereof are true in all material respects under the penalties of perjury.
 

Exhibit 3.10
PUBLIC STORAGE, a Maryland real estate investment trust (the ""), hereby certifies to the State Department of Assessments and Taxation of Maryland that:
Trust
FIRST: The articles of amendment and restatement of the Trust's declaration of trust (the "") authorize the issuance of 100,000,000 preferred shares of beneficial interest, par value $.01 per share (the "Preferred Shares"), issuable from time to time in one or more series, and authorize the Trust's board of trustees (the "") to classify or reclassify any unissued shares from time to time by setting or changing the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends, qualifications, or terms or conditions of redemption of such unissued shares.
Declaration of Trust
Board of Trustees
SECOND: In accordance with Section 8-203 of the Maryland REIT Law and pursuant to the authority expressly vested in the Board of Trustees by the Declaration of Trust, the Board of Trustees has duly divided and classified 4,600 Preferred Shares of the Trust as 6.125% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series A ("").
Series A Preferred Shares
THIRD: The following is a description of the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends or distributions, qualifications, and terms and conditions of redemption of the Series A Preferred Shares of the Trust:
(a) .
Dividend Rights
(1) Dividends shall be payable in cash on the shares of this Series when, as and if declared by the Board of Trustees, out of funds legally available therefor: (i) for the period from April 1, 2007 to June 30, 2007, and (ii) for each quarterly dividend period thereafter (each quarterly dividend period thereafter being hereinafter individually referred to as a "" and collectively referred to as ""), which quarterly Dividend Periods shall be in four equal amounts and shall commence on January 1, April 1, July 1 and October 1 in each year (each, a ""), and shall end on and include the day next preceding the next Dividend Period Commencement Date, at a rate per annum equal to 6.125% of the $25,000 per share stated value thereof. Dividends on each share of this Series shall be cumulative from April 1, 2007 and shall be payable, without interest thereon, when, as and if declared by the Board of Trustees, on or before March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 of each year; , that if any such day shall be a Saturday, Sunday, or a day on which banking institutions in the State of New York or the State of California are authorized or obligated by law to close, or a day which is or is declared a national or a New York or California state holiday (any of the foregoing a ""), then the payment date shall be the next succeeding day which is not a Non-Business Day. Each such dividend shall be paid to the holders of record of shares of this Series as they appear on the share register of the Trust on such record date, not more than 45 days nor less than 15 days preceding the payment date thereof, as shall be fixed by the Board of Trustees. Dividends on account of
Dividend Period
Dividend Periods
Dividend Period Commencement Date
provided
Non-Business Day
arrears for any past Dividend Periods may be declared and paid at any time, without reference to any regular dividend payment date, to holders of record on such date, not more than 45 days nor less than 15 days preceding the payment date thereof, as may be fixed by the Board of Trustees. After full cumulative dividends on this Series have been paid or declared and funds therefor set aside for payment, including for the then current Dividend Period, the holders of shares of this Series will not be entitled to any further dividends with respect to that Dividend Period.
(2) Dividends payable on shares of this Series for any period greater or less than a full Dividend Period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.
(3) The Trust shall not declare or pay or set apart for payment any dividends on any series of Preferred Shares ranking, as to dividends, on a parity with or junior to the shares of this Series unless full cumulative dividends have been or contemporaneously are declared and paid, or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof is set apart for payment, on the shares of this Series for all Dividend Periods terminating on or prior to the date of payment of any such dividends on such other series of Preferred Shares. When dividends are not paid in full upon the shares of this Series and any other series of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity therewith as to dividends (including, without limitation, the Trust's 7.125% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series B, 6.600% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series C, 6.180% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series D, 6.750% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series E, 6.450% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series F, 7.00% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series G, 6.950% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series H, 7.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series I, 7.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series J, 7.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series K, 6.750% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series L, 6.625% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series M, 6.400% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series NN, 7.500% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series V, 6.500% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series W, 6.450% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series X, 6.850% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series Y, 6.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series Z (all of the foregoing, collectively the ""), all dividends declared upon shares of this Series and any other series of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity therewith as to dividends shall be declared pro rata so that the amount of dividends declared per share on the shares of this Series and such other series of Preferred Shares shall in all cases bear to each other that same ratio that the accumulated dividends per share on the shares of this Series and such other series of Preferred Shares bear to each other. Except as provided in the preceding sentence, unless full cumulative dividends on the shares of this Series have been paid, or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof is set apart for payment, for all past Dividend Periods, no dividends (other than in the Trust's common shares, par value $.10 per share (together with any other shares of beneficial interest of the Trust into which such shares shall be reclassified or changed ("")), or shares of beneficial interest ranking junior to the shares of this Series as to dividends and upon liquidation) shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment nor shall any other distribution be made upon the Common Shares or on any other shares of beneficial interest of the Trust ranking junior to or on a parity with the shares of this Series as to dividends or upon liquidation. Unless full cumulative dividends on the shares of this Series have been paid, or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof is set apart for payment, for all past Dividend Periods, no Common Shares or any other shares of beneficial interest of the Trust ranking junior to or on a parity with the shares of this Series as to dividends or upon liquidation shall be redeemed,
Parity Preferred Shares
Common Shares
 
purchased or otherwise acquired for any consideration (or any moneys be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any shares of any such shares of beneficial interest) by the Trust or any subsidiary, except by conversion into or exchange for shares of beneficial interest of the Trust ranking junior to the shares of this Series as to dividends and upon liquidation.
(b) .
Liquidation
In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Trust, the holders of the shares of this Series are entitled to receive out of the assets of the Trust available for distribution to shareholders, before any distribution of assets is made to holders of Common Shares or any other class or series of shares ranking junior to the shares of this Series upon liquidation, liquidating distributions in the amount of $25,000 per share plus all accumulated and unpaid dividends (whether or not earned or declared) for the then current and all past Dividend Periods. If, upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Trust, the amounts payable with respect to the shares of this Series and any other shares of the Trust ranking as to any such distribution on a parity with the shares of this Series are not paid in full, the holders of shares of this Series and of such other shares (including the Parity Preferred Shares) will share ratably in any such distribution of assets of the Trust in proportion to the full respective preferential amounts to which they are entitled. After payment of the full amount of the liquidating distribution to which they are entitled, the holders of shares of this Series will not be entitled to any further participation in any distribution of assets by the Trust.
(1) Written notice of any such liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Trust, stating the payment date or dates when, and the place or places where the amounts distributable in such circumstances shall be payable, shall be given by first class mail, postage pre-paid, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the payment date stated therein, to each record holder of the shares of this Series at the respective addresses of such holders as the same shall appear on the share transfer records of the Trust.
(2) For purposes of liquidation rights, a reorganization, consolidation or merger of the Trust with or into any other entity or entities or a sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Trust shall be deemed not to be a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Trust.
(c) .
Redemption
(1) Except as provided in clause (9) below, the shares of this Series are not redeemable prior to March 31, 2009. On and after such date, the shares of this Series are redeemable at the option of the Trust, by resolution of the Board of Trustees, in whole or in part, from time to time upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' notice, at a cash redemption price of $25,000 per share plus all accumulated and unpaid dividends (whether or not earned or declared) to the date of redemption.
(2) If fewer than all the outstanding shares of this Series are to be redeemed, the number of shares to be redeemed will be determined by the Board of Trustees, and such
 
shares shall be redeemed pro rata from the holders of record of such shares in proportion to the number of such shares held by such holders (with adjustments to avoid redemption of fractional shares) or by lot in a manner determined by the Board of Trustees.
(3) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any dividends, including any accumulation, on the shares of this Series are in arrears, no shares of this Series shall be redeemed unless all outstanding shares of this Series are simultaneously redeemed, and the Trust shall not purchase or otherwise acquire, directly or indirectly, any shares of this Series; , , that the foregoing shall not prevent the purchase or acquisition of shares of this Series pursuant to a purchase or exchange offer provided such offer is made on the same terms to all holders of shares of this Series.
provided
however
(4) Immediately prior to any redemption of shares of this Series, the Trust shall pay, in cash, any accumulated and unpaid dividends through the redemption date, unless a redemption date falls after a dividend payment record date and prior to the corresponding dividend payment date, in which case each holder of shares of this Series at the close of business on such dividend payment record date shall be entitled to the dividend payable on such shares on the corresponding dividend payment date notwithstanding the redemption of such shares before such dividend payment date. Except as expressly provided herein above, the Trust shall make no payment or allowance for unpaid dividends, whether or not in arrears, on shares of this Series called for redemption.
(5) Notice of redemption shall be given by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the County of Los Angeles and the City of New York, such publication to be made once a week for two successive weeks, commencing not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for redemption thereof. A similar notice will be mailed by the Trust by first class mail, postage pre-paid, to each record holder of the shares of this Series to be redeemed, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to such redemption date, to the respective addresses of such holders as the same shall appear on the share transfer records of the Trust. Each notice shall state: (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accumulate on such redemption date. If fewer than all the shares of this Series held by any holder are to be redeemed, the notice mailed to such holder shall also specify the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed from such holder.
(6) In order to facilitate the redemption of shares of this Series, the Board of Trustees may fix a record date for the determination of the shares to be redeemed, such record date to be not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for such redemption.
(7) Notice having been given as provided above, from and after the date fixed for the redemption of shares of this Series by the Trust (unless the Trust shall fail to make available the money necessary to effect such redemption), the holders of shares selected for redemption shall cease to be shareholders with respect to such shares and shall have no interest in or claim against the Trust by virtue thereof and shall have no voting or other rights with respect to such shares, except the right to receive the moneys payable upon such redemption from the Trust, less any required tax withholding amount, without interest thereon, upon
 
surrender (and endorsement or assignment of transfer, if required by the Trust and so stated in the notice) of their certificates, and the shares represented thereby shall no longer be deemed to be outstanding. If fewer than all the shares represented by a certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued, without cost to the holder thereof, representing the unredeemed shares. The Trust may, at its option, at any time after a notice of redemption has been given, deposit the redemption price for the shares of this Series designated for redemption and not yet redeemed, plus any accumulated and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for redemption, with the transfer agent or agents for this Series, as a trust fund for the benefit of the holders of the shares of this Series designated for redemption, together with irrevocable instructions and authority to such transfer agent or agents that such funds be delivered upon redemption of such shares and to pay, on and after the date fixed for redemption or prior thereto, the redemption price of the shares to their respective holders upon the surrender of their share certificates. From and after the making of such deposit, the holders of the shares designated for redemption shall cease to be shareholders with respect to such shares and shall have no interest in or claim against the Trust by virtue thereof and shall have no voting or other rights with respect to such shares, except the right to receive from such trust fund the moneys payable upon such redemption, without interest thereon, upon surrender (and endorsement or assignment of transfer, if required by the Trust and so stated in the notice) of their certificates, and the shares represented thereby shall no longer be deemed to be outstanding. Any balance of such moneys remaining unclaimed at the end of the five-year period commencing on the date fixed for redemption shall be repaid to the Trust upon its request expressed in a resolution of its Board of Trustees.
(8) Any shares of this Series that shall at any time have been redeemed shall, after such redemption, have the status of authorized but unissued Preferred Shares, without designation as to series until such shares are once more designated as part of a particular series by the Board of Trustees.
(9) If the Board of Trustees shall, at any time and in good faith, be of the opinion that ownership of securities of the Trust has or may become concentrated to an extent that may prevent the Trust from qualifying as a real estate investment trust under the REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, then the Board of Trustees shall have the power, by lot or other means deemed equitable by them to prevent the transfer of and/or to call for redemption a number of shares of this Series sufficient, in the opinion of the Board of Trustees, to maintain or bring the direct or indirect ownership thereof into conformity with the requirements of such a real estate investment trust under the REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. The redemption price to be paid for shares of this Series so called for redemption, on the date fixed for redemption, shall be (i) the closing sale price on any national securities exchange or trading market on which the shares of this Series are listed, or (ii) the last quoted price as reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotation System or any other United States automated inter-dealer quotation system, on the last business day prior to the redemption date, or if the shares of this Series so called for redemption are not listed on any such exchange, trading market or quotation system, at $25,000 per share of this Series (subject to adjustment in the case of share splits, combinations, share dividends and similar transactions); provided that if interests in shares of this Series are represented by depositary shares, then the redemption price shall be determined in accordance with the foregoing, but with respect to one depositary share, multiplied by the number of depositary shares that together represent an interest
 
in one share of this Series. From and after the date fixed for redemption by the Board of Trustees, the holder of any shares of this Series so called for redemption shall cease to be entitled to any distributions, voting rights and other benefits with respect to such shares of this Series, other than the right to payment of the redemption price determined as aforesaid. "REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code" shall mean Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. In order to exercise the redemption option set forth in this clause (9), with respect to the shares of this Series, the Trust shall give notice of redemption by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the County of Los Angeles and the City of New York, such publication to be made once a week for two successive weeks, commencing not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for redemption. A similar notice will be mailed by the Trust by first class mail, postage pre-paid, to each record holder of the shares of this Series to be redeemed, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to such redemption date, to the respective addresses of such holders as the same shall appear on the share transfer records of the Trust. Each notice shall state: (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accumulate on such redemption date. If fewer than all the shares of this Series held by any holder are to be redeemed, the notice mailed to such holder shall also specify the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed from such holder.
(d) . The shares of this Series shall not have any voting powers either general or special, except as required by law and except that:
Voting Rights
(1) If the Trust shall fail to pay full cumulative dividends on the shares of this Series or any other of its Preferred Shares for six quarterly dividend payment periods, whether or not consecutive (a ""), the holders of all outstanding Preferred Shares, voting as a single class without regard to series, will be entitled to elect two Trustees until full cumulative dividends for all past dividend payment periods on all Preferred Shares have been paid or declared and funds therefor set apart for payment. Such right to vote separately as a class to elect Trustees shall, when vested, be subject, always, to the same provisions for the vesting of such right to elect Trustees separately as a class in the case of future Dividend Defaults. At any time when such right to elect Trustees separately as a class shall have so vested, the Trust may, and upon the written request of the holders of record of not less than 20% of the total number of Preferred Shares of the Trust then outstanding shall, call a special meeting of shareholders for the election of Trustees. In the case of such a written request, such special meeting shall be held within 90 days after the delivery of such request and, in either case, at the place and upon the notice provided by law and in the Bylaws of the Trust, provided that the Trust shall not be required to call such a special meeting if such request is received less than 120 days before the date fixed for the next ensuing Annual Meeting of Shareholders of the Trust and the holders of all classes of outstanding Preferred Shares are afforded the opportunity to elect such Trustees (or fill any vacancy) at such Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Trustees elected as aforesaid shall serve until the next Annual Meeting of Shareholders of the Trust or until their respective successors shall be elected and qualified. If, prior to the end of the term of any Trustee elected as aforesaid, a vacancy in the office of such Trustee shall occur during the continuance of a Dividend Default by reason of death, resignation, or disability, such vacancy shall be filled for
Dividend Default
 
the unexpired term by the appointment of a new Trustee for the unexpired term of such former Trustee, such appointment to be made by the remaining Trustee elected as aforesaid.
(2) The affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least 66
 2
/
3
 % of the outstanding shares of this Series, voting separately as a class, will be required for any amendment to the Declaration of Trust that will adversely alter or change the powers, preferences, privileges or rights of the shares of this Series, except as set forth below. The affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least 66
 2
/
3
 % of the outstanding shares of this Series and any other series of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity with this Series as to dividends and upon liquidation (including the Parity Preferred Shares), voting as a single class without regard to series, will be required to issue, authorize or increase the authorized amount of any class or series of shares ranking prior to this Series as to dividends or upon liquidation or to issue or authorize any obligation or security convertible into or evidencing a right to purchase any such security, but the Declaration of Trust may be amended to increase the number of authorized Preferred Shares ranking on a parity with or junior to this Series or to create another class of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity with or junior to this Series without the vote of the holders of outstanding shares of this Series.
(e) . The shares of this Series are not convertible into shares of any other class or series of the shares of beneficial interest of this Trust.
Conversion
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Trust has caused these Articles Supplementary to be signed in its name and on its behalf by its Vice Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President and attested to by its Secretary as of May 30, 2007.
 
THE UNDERSIGNED, the Vice Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President of Public Storage, who executed on behalf of the Trust the foregoing Articles Supplementary of which this certificate is made a part, hereby acknowledges in the name and on behalf of said Trust the foregoing Articles Supplementary to be the duly authorized act of said Trust and hereby certifies to the best of his knowledge, information and belief that the matters and facts set forth herein with respect to the authorization and approval thereof are true in all material respects under the penalties of perjury.
 

Exhibit 3.11
PUBLIC STORAGE, a Maryland real estate investment trust (the ""), hereby certifies to the State Department of Assessments and Taxation of Maryland that:
Trust
FIRST: The articles of amendment and restatement of the Trust's declaration of trust (the "") authorize the issuance of 100,000,000 preferred shares of beneficial interest, par value $.01 per share (the "Preferred Shares"), issuable from time to time in one or more series, and authorize the Trust's board of trustees (the "") to classify or reclassify any unissued shares from time to time by setting or changing the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends, qualifications, or terms or conditions of redemption of such unissued shares.
Declaration of Trust
Board of Trustees
SECOND: In accordance with Section 8-203 of the Maryland REIT Law and pursuant to the authority expressly vested in the Board of Trustees by the Declaration of Trust, the Board of Trustees has duly divided and classified 4,600 Preferred Shares of the Trust as 7.125% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series B ("").
Series B Preferred Shares
THIRD: The following is a description of the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends or distributions, qualifications, and terms and conditions of redemption of the Series B Preferred Shares of the Trust:
(a) .
Dividend Rights
(1) Dividends shall be payable in cash on the shares of this Series when, as and if declared by the Board of Trustees, out of funds legally available therefor: (i) for the period from April 1, 2007 to June 30, 2007, and (ii) for each quarterly dividend period thereafter (each quarterly dividend period thereafter being hereinafter individually referred to as a "" and collectively referred to as ""), which quarterly Dividend Periods shall be in four equal amounts and shall commence on January 1, April 1, July 1 and October 1 in each year (each, a ""), and shall end on and include the day next preceding the next Dividend Period Commencement Date, at a rate per annum equal to 7.125% of the $25,000 per share stated value thereof. Dividends on each share of this Series shall be cumulative from April 1, 2007 and shall be payable, without interest thereon, when, as and if declared by the Board of Trustees, on or before March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 of each year; , that if any such day shall be a Saturday, Sunday, or a day on which banking institutions in the State of New York or the State of California are authorized or obligated by law to close, or a day which is or is declared a national or a New York or California state holiday (any of the foregoing a ""), then the payment date shall be the next succeeding day which is not a Non-Business Day. Each such dividend shall be paid to the holders of record of shares of this Series as they appear on the share
Dividend Period
Dividend Periods
Dividend Period Commencement Date
provided
Non-Business Day
register of the Trust on such record date, not more than 45 days nor less than 15 days preceding the payment date thereof, as shall be fixed by the Board of Trustees. Dividends on account of arrears for any past Dividend Periods may be declared and paid at any time, without reference to any regular dividend payment date, to holders of record on such date, not more than 45 days nor less than 15 days preceding the payment date thereof, as may be fixed by the Board of Trustees. After full cumulative dividends on this Series have been paid or declared and funds therefor set aside for payment, including for the then current Dividend Period, the holders of shares of this Series will not be entitled to any further dividends with respect to that Dividend Period.
(2) Dividends payable on shares of this Series for any period greater or less than a full Dividend Period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.
(3) The Trust shall not declare or pay or set apart for payment any dividends on any series of Preferred Shares ranking, as to dividends, on a parity with or junior to the shares of this Series unless full cumulative dividends have been or contemporaneously are declared and paid, or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof is set apart for payment, on the shares of this Series for all Dividend Periods terminating on or prior to the date of payment of any such dividends on such other series of Preferred Shares. When dividends are not paid in full upon the shares of this Series and any other series of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity therewith as to dividends (including, without limitation, the Trust's 6.125% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series A, 6.60% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series C, 6.180% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series D, 6.750% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series E, 6.450% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series F, 7.000% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series G, 6.950% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series H, 7.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series I, 7.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series J, 7.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series K, 6.750% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series L, 6.625% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series M, 6.400% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series NN, 7.500% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series V, 6.500% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series W, 6.450% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series X, 6.850% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series Y, 6.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series Z (all of the foregoing, collectively the ""), all dividends declared upon shares of this Series and any other series of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity therewith as to dividends shall be declared pro rata so that the amount of dividends declared per share on the shares of this Series and such other series of Preferred Shares shall in all cases bear to each other that same ratio that the accumulated dividends per share on the shares of this Series and such other series of Preferred Shares bear to each other. Except as provided in the preceding sentence, unless full cumulative dividends on the shares of this Series have been paid, or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof is set apart for payment, for all past Dividend Periods, no dividends (other than in the Trust's common shares, par value $.10 per share (together with any other shares of beneficial interest of the Trust into which such shares shall be reclassified or changed ("")), or shares of beneficial interest ranking junior to the shares of this Series as to dividends and upon liquidation) shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment nor shall any other distribution be made upon the Common Shares or on any other shares of beneficial interest of the Trust ranking junior to or on a parity with the shares of this Series as to dividends or upon liquidation. Unless full cumulative dividends on the shares of this Series have been paid, or declared and a sum
Parity Preferred Shares
Common Shares
 
sufficient for payment thereof is set apart for payment, for all past Dividend Periods, no Common Shares or any other shares of beneficial interest of the Trust ranking junior to or on a parity with the shares of this Series as to dividends or upon liquidation shall be redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired for any consideration (or any moneys be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any shares of any such shares of beneficial interest) by the Trust or any subsidiary, except by conversion into or exchange for shares of beneficial interest of the Trust ranking junior to the shares of this Series as to dividends and upon liquidation.
(b) .
Liquidation
In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Trust, the holders of the shares of this Series are entitled to receive out of the assets of the Trust available for distribution to shareholders, before any distribution of assets is made to holders of Common Shares or any other class or series of shares ranking junior to the shares of this Series upon liquidation, liquidating distributions in the amount of $25,000 per share plus all accumulated and unpaid dividends (whether or not earned or declared) for the then current and all past Dividend Periods. If, upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Trust, the amounts payable with respect to the shares of this Series and any other shares of the Trust ranking as to any such distribution on a parity with the shares of this Series are not paid in full, the holders of shares of this Series and of such other shares (including the Parity Preferred Shares) will share ratably in any such distribution of assets of the Trust in proportion to the full respective preferential amounts to which they are entitled. After payment of the full amount of the liquidating distribution to which they are entitled, the holders of shares of this Series will not be entitled to any further participation in any distribution of assets by the Trust.
(1) Written notice of any such liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Trust, stating the payment date or dates when, and the place or places where the amounts distributable in such circumstances shall be payable, shall be given by first class mail, postage pre-paid, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the payment date stated therein, to each record holder of the shares of this Series at the respective addresses of such holders as the same shall appear on the share transfer records of the Trust.
(2) For purposes of liquidation rights, a reorganization, consolidation or merger of the Trust with or into any other entity or entities or a sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Trust shall be deemed not to be a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Trust.
(c) .
Redemption
(1) Except as provided in clause (9) below, the shares of this Series are not redeemable prior to June 30, 2009. On and after such date, the shares of this Series are redeemable at the option of the Trust, by resolution of the Board of Trustees, in whole or in part, from time to time upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' notice, at a cash redemption price
 
of $25,000 per share plus all accumulated and unpaid dividends (whether or not earned or declared) to the date of redemption.
(2) If fewer than all the outstanding shares of this Series are to be redeemed, the number of shares to be redeemed will be determined by the Board of Trustees, and such shares shall be redeemed pro rata from the holders of record of such shares in proportion to the number of such shares held by such holders (with adjustments to avoid redemption of fractional shares) or by lot in a manner determined by the Board of Trustees.
(3) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any dividends, including any accumulation, on the shares of this Series are in arrears, no shares of this Series shall be redeemed unless all outstanding shares of this Series are simultaneously redeemed, and the Trust shall not purchase or otherwise acquire, directly or indirectly, any shares of this Series; , , that the foregoing shall not prevent the purchase or acquisition of shares of this Series pursuant to a purchase or exchange offer provided such offer is made on the same terms to all holders of shares of this Series.
provided
however
(4) Immediately prior to any redemption of shares of this Series, the Trust shall pay, in cash, any accumulated and unpaid dividends through the redemption date, unless a redemption date falls after a dividend payment record date and prior to the corresponding dividend payment date, in which case each holder of shares of this Series at the close of business on such dividend payment record date shall be entitled to the dividend payable on such shares on the corresponding dividend payment date notwithstanding the redemption of such shares before such dividend payment date. Except as expressly provided herein above, the Trust shall make no payment or allowance for unpaid dividends, whether or not in arrears, on shares of this Series called for redemption.
(5) Notice of redemption shall be given by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the County of Los Angeles and the City of New York, such publication to be made once a week for two successive weeks, commencing not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for redemption thereof. A similar notice will be mailed by the Trust by first class mail, postage pre-paid, to each record holder of the shares of this Series to be redeemed, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to such redemption date, to the respective addresses of such holders as the same shall appear on the share transfer records of the Trust. Each notice shall state: (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accumulate on such redemption date. If fewer than all the shares of this Series held by any holder are to be redeemed, the notice mailed to such holder shall also specify the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed from such holder.
(6) In order to facilitate the redemption of shares of this Series, the Board of Trustees may fix a record date for the determination of the shares to be redeemed, such record date to be not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for such redemption.
 
(7) Notice having been given as provided above, from and after the date fixed for the redemption of shares of this Series by the Trust (unless the Trust shall fail to make available the money necessary to effect such redemption), the holders of shares selected for redemption shall cease to be shareholders with respect to such shares and shall have no interest in or claim against the Trust by virtue thereof and shall have no voting or other rights with respect to such shares, except the right to receive the moneys payable upon such redemption from the Trust, less any required tax withholding amount, without interest thereon, upon surrender (and endorsement or assignment of transfer, if required by the Trust and so stated in the notice) of their certificates, and the shares represented thereby shall no longer be deemed to be outstanding. If fewer than all the shares represented by a certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued, without cost to the holder thereof, representing the unredeemed shares. The Trust may, at its option, at any time after a notice of redemption has been given, deposit the redemption price for the shares of this Series designated for redemption and not yet redeemed, plus any accumulated and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for redemption, with the transfer agent or agents for this Series, as a trust fund for the benefit of the holders of the shares of this Series designated for redemption, together with irrevocable instructions and authority to such transfer agent or agents that such funds be delivered upon redemption of such shares and to pay, on and after the date fixed for redemption or prior thereto, the redemption price of the shares to their respective holders upon the surrender of their share certificates. From and after the making of such deposit, the holders of the shares designated for redemption shall cease to be shareholders with respect to such shares and shall have no interest in or claim against the Trust by virtue thereof and shall have no voting or other rights with respect to such shares, except the right to receive from such trust fund the moneys payable upon such redemption, without interest thereon, upon surrender (and endorsement or assignment of transfer, if required by the Trust and so stated in the notice) of their certificates, and the shares represented thereby shall no longer be deemed to be outstanding. Any balance of such moneys remaining unclaimed at the end of the five-year period commencing on the date fixed for redemption shall be repaid to the Trust upon its request expressed in a resolution of its Board of Trustees.
(8) Any shares of this Series that shall at any time have been redeemed shall, after such redemption, have the status of authorized but unissued Preferred Shares, without designation as to series until such shares are once more designated as part of a particular series by the Board of Trustees.
(9) If the Board of Trustees shall, at any time and in good faith, be of the opinion that ownership of securities of the Trust has or may become concentrated to an extent that may prevent the Trust from qualifying as a real estate investment trust under the REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, then the Board of Trustees shall have the power, by lot or other means deemed equitable by them to prevent the transfer of and/or to call for redemption a number of shares of this Series sufficient, in the opinion of the Board of Trustees, to maintain or bring the direct or indirect ownership thereof into conformity with the requirements of such a real estate investment trust under the REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. The redemption price to be paid for shares of this Series so called for redemption, on the date fixed for redemption, shall be (i) the closing sale price on any national securities exchange or trading market on which the shares of this Series are listed, or (ii) the last quoted price as reported by the
 
National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotation System or any other United States automated inter-dealer quotation system, on the last business day prior to the redemption date, or if the shares of this Series so called for redemption are not listed on any such exchange, trading market or quotation system, at $25,000 per share of this Series (subject to adjustment in the case of share splits, combinations, share dividends and similar transactions); provided that if interests in shares of this Series are represented by depositary shares, then the redemption price shall be determined in accordance with the foregoing, but with respect to one depositary share, multiplied by the number of depositary shares that together represent an interest in one share of this Series. From and after the date fixed for redemption by the Board of Trustees, the holder of any shares of this Series so called for redemption shall cease to be entitled to any distributions, voting rights and other benefits with respect to such shares of this Series, other than the right to payment of the redemption price determined as aforesaid. "REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code" shall mean Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. In order to exercise the redemption option set forth in this clause (9), with respect to the shares of this Series, the Trust shall give notice of redemption by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the County of Los Angeles and the City of New York, such publication to be made once a week for two successive weeks, commencing not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for redemption. A similar notice will be mailed by the Trust by first class mail, postage pre-paid, to each record holder of the shares of this Series to be redeemed, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to such redemption date, to the respective addresses of such holders as the same shall appear on the share transfer records of the Trust. Each notice shall state: (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accumulate on such redemption date. If fewer than all the shares of this Series held by any holder are to be redeemed, the notice mailed to such holder shall also specify the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed from such holder.
(d) . The shares of this Series shall not have any voting powers either general or special, except as required by law and except that:
Voting Rights
(1) If the Trust shall fail to pay full cumulative dividends on the shares of this Series or any other of its Preferred Shares for six quarterly dividend payment periods, whether or not consecutive (a ""), the holders of all outstanding Preferred Shares, voting as a single class without regard to series, will be entitled to elect two Trustees until full cumulative dividends for all past dividend payment periods on all Preferred Shares have been paid or declared and funds therefor set apart for payment. Such right to vote separately as a class to elect Trustees shall, when vested, be subject, always, to the same provisions for the vesting of such right to elect Trustees separately as a class in the case of future Dividend Defaults. At any time when such right to elect Trustees separately as a class shall have so vested, the Trust may, and upon the written request of the holders of record of not less than 20% of the total number of Preferred Shares of the Trust then outstanding shall, call a special meeting of shareholders for the election of Trustees. In the case of such a written request, such special meeting shall be held within 90 days after the delivery of such request and, in either case, at the place and upon the notice provided by law and in the Bylaws of the Trust, provided that the Trust shall not be
Dividend Default
 
required to call such a special meeting if such request is received less than 120 days before the date fixed for the next ensuing Annual Meeting of Shareholders of the Trust and the holders of all classes of outstanding Preferred Shares are afforded the opportunity to elect such Trustees (or fill any vacancy) at such Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Trustees elected as aforesaid shall serve until the next Annual Meeting of Shareholders of the Trust or until their respective successors shall be elected and qualified. If, prior to the end of the term of any Trustee elected as aforesaid, a vacancy in the office of such Trustee shall occur during the continuance of a Dividend Default by reason of death, resignation, or disability, such vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired term by the appointment of a new Trustee for the unexpired term of such former Trustee, such appointment to be made by the remaining Trustee elected as aforesaid.
(2) The affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least 66
 2
/
3
 % of the outstanding shares of this Series, voting separately as a class, will be required for any amendment to the Declaration of Trust that will adversely alter or change the powers, preferences, privileges or rights of the shares of this Series, except as set forth below. The affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least 66
 2
/
3
 % of the outstanding shares of this Series and any other series of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity with this Series as to dividends and upon liquidation (including the Parity Preferred Shares), voting as a single class without regard to series, will be required to issue, authorize or increase the authorized amount of any class or series of shares ranking prior to this Series as to dividends or upon liquidation or to issue or authorize any obligation or security convertible into or evidencing a right to purchase any such security, but the Declaration of Trust may be amended to increase the number of authorized Preferred Shares ranking on a parity with or junior to this Series or to create another class of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity with or junior to this Series without the vote of the holders of outstanding shares of this Series.
(e) . The shares of this Series are not convertible into shares of any other class or series of the shares of beneficial interest of this Trust.
Conversion
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Trust has caused these Articles Supplementary to be signed in its name and on its behalf by its Vice Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President and attested to by its Secretary as of May 30, 2007.
 
THE UNDERSIGNED, the Vice Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President of Public Storage, who executed on behalf of the Trust the foregoing Articles Supplementary of which this certificate is made a part, hereby acknowledges in the name and on behalf of said Trust the foregoing Articles Supplementary to be the duly authorized act of said Trust and hereby certifies to the best of his knowledge, information and belief that the matters and facts set forth herein with respect to the authorization and approval thereof are true in all material respects under the penalties of perjury.
 

Exhibit 3.12
PUBLIC STORAGE, a Maryland real estate investment trust (the ""), hereby certifies to the State Department of Assessments and Taxation of Maryland that:
Trust
FIRST: The articles of amendment and restatement of the Trust's declaration of trust (the "") authorize the issuance of 100,000,000 preferred shares of beneficial interest, par value $.01 per share (the "Preferred Shares"), issuable from time to time in one or more series, and authorize the Trust's board of trustees (the "") to classify or reclassify any unissued shares from time to time by setting or changing the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends, qualifications, or terms or conditions of redemption of such unissued shares.
Declaration of Trust
Board of Trustees
SECOND: In accordance with Section 8-203 of the Maryland REIT Law and pursuant to the authority expressly vested in the Board of Trustees by the Declaration of Trust, the Board of Trustees has duly divided and classified 4,600 Preferred Shares of the Trust as 6.600% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series C ("").
Series C Preferred Shares
THIRD: The following is a description of the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends or distributions, qualifications, and terms and conditions of redemption of the Series C Preferred Shares of the Trust:
(a) .
Dividend Rights
(1) Dividends shall be payable in cash on the shares of this Series when, as and if declared by the Board of Trustees, out of funds legally available therefor: (i) for the period from April 1, 2007 to June 30, 2007, and (ii) for each quarterly dividend period thereafter (each quarterly dividend period thereafter being hereinafter individually referred to as a "" and collectively referred to as ""), which quarterly Dividend Periods shall be in four equal amounts and shall commence on January 1, April 1, July 1 and October 1 in each year (each, a ""), and shall end on and include the day next preceding the next Dividend Period Commencement Date, at a rate per annum equal to 6.600% of the $25,000 per share stated value thereof. Dividends on each share of this Series shall be cumulative from April 1, 2007 and shall be payable, without interest thereon, when, as and if declared by the Board of Trustees, on or before March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 of each year; , that if any such day shall be a Saturday, Sunday, or a day on which banking institutions in the State of New York or the State of California are authorized or obligated by law to close, or a day which is or is declared a national or a New York or California state holiday (any of the foregoing a ""), then the payment date shall be the next succeeding day which is not a Non-Business Day. Each such dividend shall be paid to the holders of record of shares of this Series as they appear on the share register of the Trust on such record date, not more than 45 days nor less than 15 days preceding
Dividend Period
Dividend Periods
Dividend Period Commencement Date
provided
Non-Business Day
the payment date thereof, as shall be fixed by the Board of Trustees. Dividends on account of arrears for any past Dividend Periods may be declared and paid at any time, without reference to any regular dividend payment date, to holders of record on such date, not more than 45 days nor less than 15 days preceding the payment date thereof, as may be fixed by the Board of Trustees. After full cumulative dividends on this Series have been paid or declared and funds therefor set aside for payment, including for the then current Dividend Period, the holders of shares of this Series will not be entitled to any further dividends with respect to that Dividend Period.
(2) Dividends payable on shares of this Series for any period greater or less than a full Dividend Period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.
(3) The Trust shall not declare or pay or set apart for payment any dividends on any series of Preferred Shares ranking, as to dividends, on a parity with or junior to the shares of this Series unless full cumulative dividends have been or contemporaneously are declared and paid, or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof is set apart for payment, on the shares of this Series for all Dividend Periods terminating on or prior to the date of payment of any such dividends on such other series of Preferred Shares. When dividends are not paid in full upon the shares of this Series and any other series of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity therewith as to dividends (including, without limitation, the Trust's 6.125% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series A, 7.125% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series B, 6.180% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series D, 6.750% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series E, 6.450% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series F, 7.000% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series G, 6.950% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series H, 7.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series I, 7.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series J, 7.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series K, 6.750% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series L, 6.625% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series M, 6.400% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series NN, 7.500% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series V, 6.500% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series W, 6.450% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series X, 6.850% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series Y, 6.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series Z (all of the foregoing, collectively the ""), all dividends declared upon shares of this Series and any other series of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity therewith as to dividends shall be declared pro rata so that the amount of dividends declared per share on the shares of this Series and such other series of Preferred Shares shall in all cases bear to each other that same ratio that the accumulated dividends per share on the shares of this Series and such other series of Preferred Shares bear to each other. Except as provided in the preceding sentence, unless full cumulative dividends on the shares of this Series have been paid, or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof is set apart for payment, for all past Dividend Periods, no dividends (other than in the Trust's common shares, par value $.10 per share (together with any other shares of beneficial interest of the Trust into which such shares shall be reclassified or changed ("")), or shares of beneficial interest ranking junior to the shares of this Series as to dividends and upon liquidation) shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment nor shall any other distribution be made upon the Common Shares or on any other shares of beneficial interest of the Trust ranking junior to or on a parity with the shares of this Series as to dividends or upon liquidation. Unless full cumulative dividends on the shares of this Series have been paid, or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof is set apart for payment, for all past Dividend Periods, no Common Shares or any other shares of beneficial interest of the Trust ranking junior to or on a
Parity Preferred Shares
Common Shares
 
parity with the shares of this Series as to dividends or upon liquidation shall be redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired for any consideration (or any moneys be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any shares of any such shares of beneficial interest) by the Trust or any subsidiary, except by conversion into or exchange for shares of beneficial interest of the Trust ranking junior to the shares of this Series as to dividends and upon liquidation.
(b) .
Liquidation
In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Trust, the holders of the shares of this Series are entitled to receive out of the assets of the Trust available for distribution to shareholders, before any distribution of assets is made to holders of Common Shares or any other class or series of shares ranking junior to the shares of this Series upon liquidation, liquidating distributions in the amount of $25,000 per share plus all accumulated and unpaid dividends (whether or not earned or declared) for the then current and all past Dividend Periods. If, upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Trust, the amounts payable with respect to the shares of this Series and any other shares of the Trust ranking as to any such distribution on a parity with the shares of this Series are not paid in full, the holders of shares of this Series and of such other shares (including the Parity Preferred Shares) will share ratably in any such distribution of assets of the Trust in proportion to the full respective preferential amounts to which they are entitled. After payment of the full amount of the liquidating distribution to which they are entitled, the holders of shares of this Series will not be entitled to any further participation in any distribution of assets by the Trust.
(1) Written notice of any such liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Trust, stating the payment date or dates when, and the place or places where the amounts distributable in such circumstances shall be payable, shall be given by first class mail, postage pre-paid, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the payment date stated therein, to each record holder of the shares of this Series at the respective addresses of such holders as the same shall appear on the share transfer records of the Trust.
(2) For purposes of liquidation rights, a reorganization, consolidation or merger of the Trust with or into any other entity or entities or a sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Trust shall be deemed not to be a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Trust.
(c) .
Redemption
(1) Except as provided in clause (9) below, the shares of this Series are not redeemable prior to September 13, 2009. On and after such date, the shares of this Series are redeemable at the option of the Trust, by resolution of the Board of Trustees, in whole or in part, from time to time upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' notice, at a cash redemption price of $25,000 per share plus all accumulated and unpaid dividends (whether or not earned or declared) to the date of redemption.
 
(2) If fewer than all the outstanding shares of this Series are to be redeemed, the number of shares to be redeemed will be determined by the Board of Trustees, and such shares shall be redeemed pro rata from the holders of record of such shares in proportion to the number of such shares held by such holders (with adjustments to avoid redemption of fractional shares) or by lot in a manner determined by the Board of Trustees.
(3) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any dividends, including any accumulation, on the shares of this Series are in arrears, no shares of this Series shall be redeemed unless all outstanding shares of this Series are simultaneously redeemed, and the Trust shall not purchase or otherwise acquire, directly or indirectly, any shares of this Series; , , that the foregoing shall not prevent the purchase or acquisition of shares of this Series pursuant to a purchase or exchange offer provided such offer is made on the same terms to all holders of shares of this Series.
provided
however
(4) Immediately prior to any redemption of shares of this Series, the Trust shall pay, in cash, any accumulated and unpaid dividends through the redemption date, unless a redemption date falls after a dividend payment record date and prior to the corresponding dividend payment date, in which case each holder of shares of this Series at the close of business on such dividend payment record date shall be entitled to the dividend payable on such shares on the corresponding dividend payment date notwithstanding the redemption of such shares before such dividend payment date. Except as expressly provided herein above, the Trust shall make no payment or allowance for unpaid dividends, whether or not in arrears, on shares of this Series called for redemption.
(5) Notice of redemption shall be given by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the County of Los Angeles and the City of New York, such publication to be made once a week for two successive weeks, commencing not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for redemption thereof. A similar notice will be mailed by the Trust by first class mail, postage pre-paid, to each record holder of the shares of this Series to be redeemed, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to such redemption date, to the respective addresses of such holders as the same shall appear on the share transfer records of the Trust. Each notice shall state: (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accumulate on such redemption date. If fewer than all the shares of this Series held by any holder are to be redeemed, the notice mailed to such holder shall also specify the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed from such holder.
(6) In order to facilitate the redemption of shares of this Series, the Board of Trustees may fix a record date for the determination of the shares to be redeemed, such record date to be not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for such redemption.
(7) Notice having been given as provided above, from and after the date fixed for the redemption of shares of this Series by the Trust (unless the Trust shall fail to make available the money necessary to effect such redemption), the holders of shares selected for redemption shall cease to be shareholders with respect to such shares and shall have no interest in or claim against the Trust by virtue thereof and shall have no voting or other rights with
 
respect to such shares, except the right to receive the moneys payable upon such redemption from the Trust, less any required tax withholding amount, without interest thereon, upon surrender (and endorsement or assignment of transfer, if required by the Trust and so stated in the notice) of their certificates, and the shares represented thereby shall no longer be deemed to be outstanding. If fewer than all the shares represented by a certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued, without cost to the holder thereof, representing the unredeemed shares. The Trust may, at its option, at any time after a notice of redemption has been given, deposit the redemption price for the shares of this Series designated for redemption and not yet redeemed, plus any accumulated and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for redemption, with the transfer agent or agents for this Series, as a trust fund for the benefit of the holders of the shares of this Series designated for redemption, together with irrevocable instructions and authority to such transfer agent or agents that such funds be delivered upon redemption of such shares and to pay, on and after the date fixed for redemption or prior thereto, the redemption price of the shares to their respective holders upon the surrender of their share certificates. From and after the making of such deposit, the holders of the shares designated for redemption shall cease to be shareholders with respect to such shares and shall have no interest in or claim against the Trust by virtue thereof and shall have no voting or other rights with respect to such shares, except the right to receive from such trust fund the moneys payable upon such redemption, without interest thereon, upon surrender (and endorsement or assignment of transfer, if required by the Trust and so stated in the notice) of their certificates, and the shares represented thereby shall no longer be deemed to be outstanding. Any balance of such moneys remaining unclaimed at the end of the five-year period commencing on the date fixed for redemption shall be repaid to the Trust upon its request expressed in a resolution of its Board of Trustees.
(8) Any shares of this Series that shall at any time have been redeemed shall, after such redemption, have the status of authorized but unissued Preferred Shares, without designation as to series until such shares are once more designated as part of a particular series by the Board of Trustees.
(9) If the Board of Trustees shall, at any time and in good faith, be of the opinion that ownership of securities of the Trust has or may become concentrated to an extent that may prevent the Trust from qualifying as a real estate investment trust under the REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, then the Board of Trustees shall have the power, by lot or other means deemed equitable by them to prevent the transfer of and/or to call for redemption a number of shares of this Series sufficient, in the opinion of the Board of Trustees, to maintain or bring the direct or indirect ownership thereof into conformity with the requirements of such a real estate investment trust under the REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. The redemption price to be paid for shares of this Series so called for redemption, on the date fixed for redemption, shall be (i) the closing sale price on any national securities exchange or trading market on which the shares of this Series are listed, or (ii) the last quoted price as reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotation System or any other United States automated inter-dealer quotation system, on the last business day prior to the redemption date, or if the shares of this Series so called for redemption are not listed on any such exchange, trading market or quotation system, at $25,000 per share of this Series (subject to adjustment in the case of share splits, combinations, share dividends and similar transactions); provided that if interests in shares of this Series are represented by depositary shares, then the
 
redemption price shall be determined in accordance with the foregoing, but with respect to one depositary share, multiplied by the number of depositary shares that together represent an interest in one share of this Series. From and after the date fixed for redemption by the Board of Trustees, the holder of any shares of this Series so called for redemption shall cease to be entitled to any distributions, voting rights and other benefits with respect to such shares of this Series, other than the right to payment of the redemption price determined as aforesaid. "REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code" shall mean Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. In order to exercise the redemption option set forth in this clause (9), with respect to the shares of this Series, the Trust shall give notice of redemption by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the County of Los Angeles and the City of New York, such publication to be made once a week for two successive weeks, commencing not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for redemption. A similar notice will be mailed by the Trust by first class mail, postage pre-paid, to each record holder of the shares of this Series to be redeemed, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to such redemption date, to the respective addresses of such holders as the same shall appear on the share transfer records of the Trust. Each notice shall state: (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accumulate on such redemption date. If fewer than all the shares of this Series held by any holder are to be redeemed, the notice mailed to such holder shall also specify the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed from such holder.
(d) . The shares of this Series shall not have any voting powers either general or special, except as required by law and except that:
Voting Rights
(1) If the Trust shall fail to pay full cumulative dividends on the shares of this Series or any other of its Preferred Shares for six quarterly dividend payment periods, whether or not consecutive (a ""), the holders of all outstanding Preferred Shares, voting as a single class without regard to series, will be entitled to elect two Trustees until full cumulative dividends for all past dividend payment periods on all Preferred Shares have been paid or declared and funds therefor set apart for payment. Such right to vote separately as a class to elect Trustees shall, when vested, be subject, always, to the same provisions for the vesting of such right to elect Trustees separately as a class in the case of future Dividend Defaults. At any time when such right to elect Trustees separately as a class shall have so vested, the Trust may, and upon the written request of the holders of record of not less than 20% of the total number of Preferred Shares of the Trust then outstanding shall, call a special meeting of shareholders for the election of Trustees. In the case of such a written request, such special meeting shall be held within 90 days after the delivery of such request and, in either case, at the place and upon the notice provided by law and in the Bylaws of the Trust, provided that the Trust shall not be required to call such a special meeting if such request is received less than 120 days before the date fixed for the next ensuing Annual Meeting of Shareholders of the Trust and the holders of all classes of outstanding Preferred Shares are afforded the opportunity to elect such Trustees (or fill any vacancy) at such Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Trustees elected as aforesaid shall serve until the next Annual Meeting of Shareholders of the Trust or until their respective successors shall be elected and qualified. If, prior to the end of the term of any Trustee elected as aforesaid, a vacancy in the office of such Trustee shall occur during the continuance of a
Dividend Default
 
Dividend Default by reason of death, resignation, or disability, such vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired term by the appointment of a new Trustee for the unexpired term of such former Trustee, such appointment to be made by the remaining Trustee elected as aforesaid.
(2) The affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least 66
 2
/
3
 % of the outstanding shares of this Series, voting separately as a class, will be required for any amendment to the Declaration of Trust that will adversely alter or change the powers, preferences, privileges or rights of the shares of this Series, except as set forth below. The affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least 66
 2
/
3
 % of the outstanding shares of this Series and any other series of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity with this Series as to dividends and upon liquidation (including the Parity Preferred Shares), voting as a single class without regard to series, will be required to issue, authorize or increase the authorized amount of any class or series of shares ranking prior to this Series as to dividends or upon liquidation or to issue or authorize any obligation or security convertible into or evidencing a right to purchase any such security, but the Declaration of Trust may be amended to increase the number of authorized Preferred Shares ranking on a parity with or junior to this Series or to create another class of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity with or junior to this Series without the vote of the holders of outstanding shares of this Series.
(e) . The shares of this Series are not convertible into shares of any other class or series of the shares of beneficial interest of this Trust.
Conversion
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Trust has caused these Articles Supplementary to be signed in its name and on its behalf by its Vice Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President and attested to by its Secretary as of May 30, 2007.
 
THE UNDERSIGNED, the Vice Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President of Public Storage, who executed on behalf of the Trust the foregoing Articles Supplementary of which this certificate is made a part, hereby acknowledges in the name and on behalf of said Trust the foregoing Articles Supplementary to be the duly authorized act of said Trust and hereby certifies to the best of his knowledge, information and belief that the matters and facts set forth herein with respect to the authorization and approval thereof are true in all material respects under the penalties of perjury.
 

Exhibit 3.13
PUBLIC STORAGE, a Maryland real estate investment trust (the ""), hereby certifies to the State Department of Assessments and Taxation of Maryland that:
Trust
FIRST: The articles of amendment and restatement of the Trust's declaration of trust (the "") authorize the issuance of 100,000,000 preferred shares of beneficial interest, par value $.01 per share (the "Preferred Shares"), issuable from time to time in one or more series, and authorize the Trust's board of trustees (the "") to classify or reclassify any unissued shares from time to time by setting or changing the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends, qualifications, or terms or conditions of redemption of such unissued shares.
Declaration of Trust
Board of Trustees
SECOND: In accordance with Section 8-203 of the Maryland REIT Law and pursuant to the authority expressly vested in the Board of Trustees by the Declaration of Trust, the Board of Trustees has duly divided and classified 5,750 Preferred Shares of the Trust as 6.180% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series D ("").
Series D Preferred Shares
THIRD: The following is a description of the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends or distributions, qualifications, and terms and conditions of redemption of the Series D Preferred Shares of the Trust:
(a) .
Dividend Rights
(1) Dividends shall be payable in cash on the shares of this Series when, as and if declared by the Board of Trustees, out of funds legally available therefor: (i) for the period from April 1, 2007 to June 30, 2007, and (ii) for each quarterly dividend period thereafter (each quarterly dividend period thereafter being hereinafter individually referred to as a "" and collectively referred to as ""), which quarterly Dividend Periods shall be in four equal amounts and shall commence on January 1, April 1, July 1 and October 1 in each year (each, a ""), and shall end on and include the day next preceding the next Dividend Period Commencement Date, at a rate per annum equal to 6.180% of the $25,000 per share stated value thereof. Dividends on each share of this Series shall be cumulative from April 1, 2007 and shall be payable, without interest thereon, when, as and if declared by the Board of Trustees, on or before March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 of each year; , that if any such day shall be a Saturday, Sunday, or a day on which banking institutions in the State of New York or the State of California are authorized or obligated by law to close, or a day which is or is declared a national or a New York or California state holiday (any of the foregoing a ""), then the payment date shall be the next succeeding day which is not a Non-Business Day. Each such dividend shall be paid to the holders of record of shares of this Series as they appear on the share register of the Trust on such record date, not more than 45 days nor less than 15 days preceding
Dividend Period
Dividend Periods
Dividend Period Commencement Date
provided
Non-Business Day
the payment date thereof, as shall be fixed by the Board of Trustees. Dividends on account of arrears for any past Dividend Periods may be declared and paid at any time, without reference to any regular dividend payment date, to holders of record on such date, not more than 45 days nor less than 15 days preceding the payment date thereof, as may be fixed by the Board of Trustees. After full cumulative dividends on this Series have been paid or declared and funds therefor set aside for payment, including for the then current Dividend Period, the holders of shares of this Series will not be entitled to any further dividends with respect to that Dividend Period.
(2) Dividends payable on shares of this Series for any period greater or less than a full Dividend Period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.
(3) The Trust shall not declare or pay or set apart for payment any dividends on any series of Preferred Shares ranking, as to dividends, on a parity with or junior to the shares of this Series unless full cumulative dividends have been or contemporaneously are declared and paid, or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof is set apart for payment, on the shares of this Series for all Dividend Periods terminating on or prior to the date of payment of any such dividends on such other series of Preferred Shares. When dividends are not paid in full upon the shares of this Series and any other series of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity therewith as to dividends (including, without limitation, the Trust's 6.125% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series A, 7.125% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series B, 6.600% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series C, 6.750% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series E, 6.450% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series F, 7.000% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series G, 6.950% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series H, 7.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series I, 7.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series J, 7.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series K, 6.750% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series L, 6.625% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series M, 6.400% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series NN, 7.500% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series V, 6.500% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series W, 6.450% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series X, 6.850% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series Y, 6.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series Z (all of the foregoing, collectively the ""), all dividends declared upon shares of this Series and any other series of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity therewith as to dividends shall be declared pro rata so that the amount of dividends declared per share on the shares of this Series and such other series of Preferred Shares shall in all cases bear to each other that same ratio that the accumulated dividends per share on the shares of this Series and such other series of Preferred Shares bear to each other. Except as provided in the preceding sentence, unless full cumulative dividends on the shares of this Series have been paid, or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof is set apart for payment, for all past Dividend Periods, no dividends (other than in the Trust's common shares, par value $.10 per share (together with any other shares of beneficial interest of the Trust into which such shares shall be reclassified or changed ("")), or shares of beneficial interest ranking junior to the shares of this Series as to dividends and upon liquidation) shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment nor shall any other distribution be made upon the Common Shares or on any other shares of beneficial interest of the Trust ranking junior to or on a parity with the shares of this Series as to dividends or upon liquidation. Unless full cumulative dividends on the shares of this Series have been paid, or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof is set apart for payment, for all past Dividend Periods, no Common Shares or any other shares of beneficial interest of the Trust ranking junior to or on a
Parity Preferred Shares
Common Shares
 
parity with the shares of this Series as to dividends or upon liquidation shall be redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired for any consideration (or any moneys be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any shares of any such shares of beneficial interest) by the Trust or any subsidiary, except by conversion into or exchange for shares of beneficial interest of the Trust ranking junior to the shares of this Series as to dividends and upon liquidation.
(b) .
Liquidation
In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Trust, the holders of the shares of this Series are entitled to receive out of the assets of the Trust available for distribution to shareholders, before any distribution of assets is made to holders of Common Shares or any other class or series of shares ranking junior to the shares of this Series upon liquidation, liquidating distributions in the amount of $25,000 per share plus all accumulated and unpaid dividends (whether or not earned or declared) for the then current and all past Dividend Periods. If, upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Trust, the amounts payable with respect to the shares of this Series and any other shares of the Trust ranking as to any such distribution on a parity with the shares of this Series are not paid in full, the holders of shares of this Series and of such other shares (including the Parity Preferred Shares) will share ratably in any such distribution of assets of the Trust in proportion to the full respective preferential amounts to which they are entitled. After payment of the full amount of the liquidating distribution to which they are entitled, the holders of shares of this Series will not be entitled to any further participation in any distribution of assets by the Trust.
(1) Written notice of any such liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Trust, stating the payment date or dates when, and the place or places where the amounts distributable in such circumstances shall be payable, shall be given by first class mail, postage pre-paid, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the payment date stated therein, to each record holder of the shares of this Series at the respective addresses of such holders as the same shall appear on the share transfer records of the Trust.
(2) For purposes of liquidation rights, a reorganization, consolidation or merger of the Trust with or into any other entity or entities or a sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Trust shall be deemed not to be a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Trust.
(c) .
Redemption
(1) Except as provided in clause (9) below, the shares of this Series are not redeemable prior to February 28, 2010. On and after such date, the shares of this Series are redeemable at the option of the Trust, by resolution of the Board of Trustees, in whole or in part, from time to time upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' notice, at a cash redemption price of $25,000 per share plus all accumulated and unpaid dividends (whether or not earned or declared) to the date of redemption.
 
(2) If fewer than all the outstanding shares of this Series are to be redeemed, the number of shares to be redeemed will be determined by the Board of Trustees, and such shares shall be redeemed pro rata from the holders of record of such shares in proportion to the number of such shares held by such holders (with adjustments to avoid redemption of fractional shares) or by lot in a manner determined by the Board of Trustees.
(3) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any dividends, including any accumulation, on the shares of this Series are in arrears, no shares of this Series shall be redeemed unless all outstanding shares of this Series are simultaneously redeemed, and the Trust shall not purchase or otherwise acquire, directly or indirectly, any shares of this Series; , , that the foregoing shall not prevent the purchase or acquisition of shares of this Series pursuant to a purchase or exchange offer provided such offer is made on the same terms to all holders of shares of this Series.
provided
however
(4) Immediately prior to any redemption of shares of this Series, the Trust shall pay, in cash, any accumulated and unpaid dividends through the redemption date, unless a redemption date falls after a dividend payment record date and prior to the corresponding dividend payment date, in which case each holder of shares of this Series at the close of business on such dividend payment record date shall be entitled to the dividend payable on such shares on the corresponding dividend payment date notwithstanding the redemption of such shares before such dividend payment date. Except as expressly provided herein above, the Trust shall make no payment or allowance for unpaid dividends, whether or not in arrears, on shares of this Series called for redemption.
(5) Notice of redemption shall be given by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the County of Los Angeles and the City of New York, such publication to be made once a week for two successive weeks, commencing not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for redemption thereof. A similar notice will be mailed by the Trust by first class mail, postage pre-paid, to each record holder of the shares of this Series to be redeemed, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to such redemption date, to the respective addresses of such holders as the same shall appear on the share transfer records of the Trust. Each notice shall state: (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accumulate on such redemption date. If fewer than all the shares of this Series held by any holder are to be redeemed, the notice mailed to such holder shall also specify the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed from such holder.
(6) In order to facilitate the redemption of shares of this Series, the Board of Trustees may fix a record date for the determination of the shares to be redeemed, such record date to be not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for such redemption.
(7) Notice having been given as provided above, from and after the date fixed for the redemption of shares of this Series by the Trust (unless the Trust shall fail to make available the money necessary to effect such redemption), the holders of shares selected for redemption shall cease to be shareholders with respect to such shares and shall have no interest in or claim against the Trust by virtue thereof and shall have no voting or other rights with
 
respect to such shares, except the right to receive the moneys payable upon such redemption from the Trust, less any required tax withholding amount, without interest thereon, upon surrender (and endorsement or assignment of transfer, if required by the Trust and so stated in the notice) of their certificates, and the shares represented thereby shall no longer be deemed to be outstanding. If fewer than all the shares represented by a certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued, without cost to the holder thereof, representing the unredeemed shares. The Trust may, at its option, at any time after a notice of redemption has been given, deposit the redemption price for the shares of this Series designated for redemption and not yet redeemed, plus any accumulated and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for redemption, with the transfer agent or agents for this Series, as a trust fund for the benefit of the holders of the shares of this Series designated for redemption, together with irrevocable instructions and authority to such transfer agent or agents that such funds be delivered upon redemption of such shares and to pay, on and after the date fixed for redemption or prior thereto, the redemption price of the shares to their respective holders upon the surrender of their share certificates. From and after the making of such deposit, the holders of the shares designated for redemption shall cease to be shareholders with respect to such shares and shall have no interest in or claim against the Trust by virtue thereof and shall have no voting or other rights with respect to such shares, except the right to receive from such trust fund the moneys payable upon such redemption, without interest thereon, upon surrender (and endorsement or assignment of transfer, if required by the Trust and so stated in the notice) of their certificates, and the shares represented thereby shall no longer be deemed to be outstanding. Any balance of such moneys remaining unclaimed at the end of the five-year period commencing on the date fixed for redemption shall be repaid to the Trust upon its request expressed in a resolution of its Board of Trustees.
(8) Any shares of this Series that shall at any time have been redeemed shall, after such redemption, have the status of authorized but unissued Preferred Shares, without designation as to series until such shares are once more designated as part of a particular series by the Board of Trustees.
(9) If the Board of Trustees shall, at any time and in good faith, be of the opinion that ownership of securities of the Trust has or may become concentrated to an extent that may prevent the Trust from qualifying as a real estate investment trust under the REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, then the Board of Trustees shall have the power, by lot or other means deemed equitable by them to prevent the transfer of and/or to call for redemption a number of shares of this Series sufficient, in the opinion of the Board of Trustees, to maintain or bring the direct or indirect ownership thereof into conformity with the requirements of such a real estate investment trust under the REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. The redemption price to be paid for shares of this Series so called for redemption, on the date fixed for redemption, shall be (i) the closing sale price on any national securities exchange or trading market on which the shares of this Series are listed, or (ii) the last quoted price as reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotation System or any other United States automated inter-dealer quotation system, on the last business day prior to the redemption date, or if the shares of this Series so called for redemption are not listed on any such exchange, trading market or quotation system, at $25,000 per share of this Series (subject to adjustment in the case of share splits, combinations, share dividends and similar transactions); provided that if interests in shares of this Series are represented by depositary shares, then the
 
redemption price shall be determined in accordance with the foregoing, but with respect to one depositary share, multiplied by the number of depositary shares that together represent an interest in one share of this Series. From and after the date fixed for redemption by the Board of Trustees, the holder of any shares of this Series so called for redemption shall cease to be entitled to any distributions, voting rights and other benefits with respect to such shares of this Series, other than the right to payment of the redemption price determined as aforesaid. "REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code" shall mean Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. In order to exercise the redemption option set forth in this clause (9), with respect to the shares of this Series, the Trust shall give notice of redemption by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the County of Los Angeles and the City of New York, such publication to be made once a week for two successive weeks, commencing not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for redemption. A similar notice will be mailed by the Trust by first class mail, postage pre-paid, to each record holder of the shares of this Series to be redeemed, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to such redemption date, to the respective addresses of such holders as the same shall appear on the share transfer records of the Trust. Each notice shall state: (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accumulate on such redemption date. If fewer than all the shares of this Series held by any holder are to be redeemed, the notice mailed to such holder shall also specify the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed from such holder.
(d) . The shares of this Series shall not have any voting powers either general or special, except as required by law and except that:
Voting Rights
(1) If the Trust shall fail to pay full cumulative dividends on the shares of this Series or any other of its Preferred Shares for six quarterly dividend payment periods, whether or not consecutive (a ""), the holders of all outstanding Preferred Shares, voting as a single class without regard to series, will be entitled to elect two Trustees until full cumulative dividends for all past dividend payment periods on all Preferred Shares have been paid or declared and funds therefor set apart for payment. Such right to vote separately as a class to elect Trustees shall, when vested, be subject, always, to the same provisions for the vesting of such right to elect Trustees separately as a class in the case of future Dividend Defaults. At any time when such right to elect Trustees separately as a class shall have so vested, the Trust may, and upon the written request of the holders of record of not less than 20% of the total number of Preferred Shares of the Trust then outstanding shall, call a special meeting of shareholders for the election of Trustees. In the case of such a written request, such special meeting shall be held within 90 days after the delivery of such request and, in either case, at the place and upon the notice provided by law and in the Bylaws of the Trust, provided that the Trust shall not be required to call such a special meeting if such request is received less than 120 days before the date fixed for the next ensuing Annual Meeting of Shareholders of the Trust and the holders of all classes of outstanding Preferred Shares are afforded the opportunity to elect such Trustees (or fill any vacancy) at such Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Trustees elected as aforesaid shall serve until the next Annual Meeting of Shareholders of the Trust or until their respective successors shall be elected and qualified. If, prior to the end of the term of any Trustee elected as aforesaid, a vacancy in the office of such Trustee shall occur during the continuance of a
Dividend Default
 
Dividend Default by reason of death, resignation, or disability, such vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired term by the appointment of a new Trustee for the unexpired term of such former Trustee, such appointment to be made by the remaining Trustee elected as aforesaid.
(2) The affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least 66
 2
/
3
 % of the outstanding shares of this Series, voting separately as a class, will be required for any amendment to the Declaration of Trust that will adversely alter or change the powers, preferences, privileges or rights of the shares of this Series, except as set forth below. The affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least 66
 2
/
3
 % of the outstanding shares of this Series and any other series of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity with this Series as to dividends and upon liquidation (including the Parity Preferred Shares), voting as a single class without regard to series, will be required to issue, authorize or increase the authorized amount of any class or series of shares ranking prior to this Series as to dividends or upon liquidation or to issue or authorize any obligation or security convertible into or evidencing a right to purchase any such security, but the Declaration of Trust may be amended to increase the number of authorized Preferred Shares ranking on a parity with or junior to this Series or to create another class of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity with or junior to this Series without the vote of the holders of outstanding shares of this Series.
(e) . The shares of this Series are not convertible into shares of any other class or series of the shares of beneficial interest of this Trust.
Conversion
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Trust has caused these Articles Supplementary to be signed in its name and on its behalf by its Vice Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President and attested to by its Secretary as of May 30, 2007.
 
THE UNDERSIGNED, the Vice Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President of Public Storage, who executed on behalf of the Trust the foregoing Articles Supplementary of which this certificate is made a part, hereby acknowledges in the name and on behalf of said Trust the foregoing Articles Supplementary to be the duly authorized act of said Trust and hereby certifies to the best of his knowledge, information and belief that the matters and facts set forth herein with respect to the authorization and approval thereof are true in all material respects under the penalties of perjury.
 

Exhibit 3.14
PUBLIC STORAGE, a Maryland real estate investment trust (the ""), hereby certifies to the State Department of Assessments and Taxation of Maryland that:
Trust
FIRST: The articles of amendment and restatement of the Trust's declaration of trust (the "") authorize the issuance of 100,000,000 preferred shares of beneficial interest, par value $.01 per share (the "Preferred Shares"), issuable from time to time in one or more series, and authorize the Trust's board of trustees (the "") to classify or reclassify any unissued shares from time to time by setting or changing the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends, qualifications, or terms or conditions of redemption of such unissued shares.
Declaration of Trust
Board of Trustees
SECOND: In accordance with Section 8-203 of the Maryland REIT Law and pursuant to the authority expressly vested in the Board of Trustees by the Declaration of Trust, the Board of Trustees has duly divided and classified 5,750 Preferred Shares of the Trust as 6.750% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series E ("").
Series E- Preferred Shares
THIRD: The following is a description of the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends or distributions, qualifications, and terms and conditions of redemption of the Series E Preferred Shares of the Trust:
(a) .
Dividend Rights
(1) Dividends shall be payable in cash on the shares of this Series when, as and if declared by the Board of Trustees, out of funds legally available therefor: (i) for the period from April 1, 2007 to June 30, 2007, and (ii) for each quarterly dividend period thereafter (each quarterly dividend period thereafter being hereinafter individually referred to as a "" and collectively referred to as ""), which quarterly Dividend Periods shall be in four equal amounts and shall commence on January 1, April 1, July 1 and October 1 in each year (each, a ""), and shall end on and include the day next preceding the next Dividend Period Commencement Date, at a rate per annum equal to 6.750% of the $25,000 per share stated value thereof. Dividends on each share of this Series shall be cumulative from April 1, 2007 and shall be payable, without interest thereon, when, as and if declared by the Board of Trustees, on or before March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 of each year; , that if any such day shall be a Saturday, Sunday, or a day on which banking institutions in the State of New York or the State of California are authorized or obligated by law to close, or a day which is or is declared a national or a New York or California state holiday (any of the foregoing a ""), then the payment date shall be the next succeeding day which is not a Non-Business Day. Each such dividend shall be paid to the holders of record of shares of this Series as they appear on the share register of the Trust on such record date, not more than 45 days nor less than 15 days preceding
Dividend Period
Dividend Periods
Dividend Period Commencement Date
provided
Non-Business Day
the payment date thereof, as shall be fixed by the Board of Trustees. Dividends on account of arrears for any past Dividend Periods may be declared and paid at any time, without reference to any regular dividend payment date, to holders of record on such date, not more than 45 days nor less than 15 days preceding the payment date thereof, as may be fixed by the Board of Trustees. After full cumulative dividends on this Series have been paid or declared and funds therefor set aside for payment, including for the then current Dividend Period, the holders of shares of this Series will not be entitled to any further dividends with respect to that Dividend Period.
(2) Dividends payable on shares of this Series for any period greater or less than a full Dividend Period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.
(3) The Trust shall not declare or pay or set apart for payment any dividends on any series of Preferred Shares ranking, as to dividends, on a parity with or junior to the shares of this Series unless full cumulative dividends have been or contemporaneously are declared and paid, or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof is set apart for payment, on the shares of this Series for all Dividend Periods terminating on or prior to the date of payment of any such dividends on such other series of Preferred Shares. When dividends are not paid in full upon the shares of this Series and any other series of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity therewith as to dividends (including, without limitation, the Trust's 6.125% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series A, 7.125% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series B, 6.600% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series C, 6.180% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series D, 6.450% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series F, 7.000% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series G, 6.950% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series H, 7.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series I, 7.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series J, 7.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series K, 6.750% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series L, 6.625% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series M, 6.400% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series NN, 7.500% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series V, 6.500% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series W, 6.450% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series X, 6.850% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series Y, 6.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series Z (all of the foregoing, collectively the ""), all dividends declared upon shares of this Series and any other series of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity therewith as to dividends shall be declared pro rata so that the amount of dividends declared per share on the shares of this Series and such other series of Preferred Shares shall in all cases bear to each other that same ratio that the accumulated dividends per share on the shares of this Series and such other series of Preferred Shares bear to each other. Except as provided in the preceding sentence, unless full cumulative dividends on the shares of this Series have been paid, or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof is set apart for payment, for all past Dividend Periods, no dividends (other than in the Trust's common shares, par value $.10 per share (together with any other shares of beneficial interest of the Trust into which such shares shall be reclassified or changed ("")), or shares of beneficial interest ranking junior to the shares of this Series as to dividends and upon liquidation) shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment nor shall any other distribution be made upon the Common Shares or on any other shares of beneficial interest of the Trust ranking junior to or on a parity with the shares of this Series as to dividends or upon liquidation. Unless full cumulative dividends on the shares of this Series have been paid, or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof is set apart for payment, for all past Dividend Periods, no Common Shares or any other shares of beneficial interest of the Trust ranking junior to or on a
Parity Preferred Shares
Common Shares
 
parity with the shares of this Series as to dividends or upon liquidation shall be redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired for any consideration (or any moneys be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any shares of any such shares of beneficial interest) by the Trust or any subsidiary, except by conversion into or exchange for shares of beneficial interest of the Trust ranking junior to the shares of this Series as to dividends and upon liquidation.
(b) .
Liquidation
In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Trust, the holders of the shares of this Series are entitled to receive out of the assets of the Trust available for distribution to shareholders, before any distribution of assets is made to holders of Common Shares or any other class or series of shares ranking junior to the shares of this Series upon liquidation, liquidating distributions in the amount of $25,000 per share plus all accumulated and unpaid dividends (whether or not earned or declared) for the then current and all past Dividend Periods. If, upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Trust, the amounts payable with respect to the shares of this Series and any other shares of the Trust ranking as to any such distribution on a parity with the shares of this Series are not paid in full, the holders of shares of this Series and of such other shares (including the Parity Preferred Shares) will share ratably in any such distribution of assets of the Trust in proportion to the full respective preferential amounts to which they are entitled. After payment of the full amount of the liquidating distribution to which they are entitled, the holders of shares of this Series will not be entitled to any further participation in any distribution of assets by the Trust.
(1) Written notice of any such liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Trust, stating the payment date or dates when, and the place or places where the amounts distributable in such circumstances shall be payable, shall be given by first class mail, postage pre-paid, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the payment date stated therein, to each record holder of the shares of this Series at the respective addresses of such holders as the same shall appear on the share transfer records of the Trust.
(2) For purposes of liquidation rights, a reorganization, consolidation or merger of the Trust with or into any other entity or entities or a sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Trust shall be deemed not to be a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Trust.
(c) .
Redemption
(1) Except as provided in clause (9) below, the shares of this Series are not redeemable prior to April 27, 2010. On and after such date, the shares of this Series are redeemable at the option of the Trust, by resolution of the Board of Trustees, in whole or in part, from time to time upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' notice, at a cash redemption price of $25,000 per share plus all accumulated and unpaid dividends (whether or not earned or declared) to the date of redemption.
 
(2) If fewer than all the outstanding shares of this Series are to be redeemed, the number of shares to be redeemed will be determined by the Board of Trustees, and such shares shall be redeemed pro rata from the holders of record of such shares in proportion to the number of such shares held by such holders (with adjustments to avoid redemption of fractional shares) or by lot in a manner determined by the Board of Trustees.
(3) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any dividends, including any accumulation, on the shares of this Series are in arrears, no shares of this Series shall be redeemed unless all outstanding shares of this Series are simultaneously redeemed, and the Trust shall not purchase or otherwise acquire, directly or indirectly, any shares of this Series; , , that the foregoing shall not prevent the purchase or acquisition of shares of this Series pursuant to a purchase or exchange offer provided such offer is made on the same terms to all holders of shares of this Series.
provided
however
(4) Immediately prior to any redemption of shares of this Series, the Trust shall pay, in cash, any accumulated and unpaid dividends through the redemption date, unless a redemption date falls after a dividend payment record date and prior to the corresponding dividend payment date, in which case each holder of shares of this Series at the close of business on such dividend payment record date shall be entitled to the dividend payable on such shares on the corresponding dividend payment date notwithstanding the redemption of such shares before such dividend payment date. Except as expressly provided herein above, the Trust shall make no payment or allowance for unpaid dividends, whether or not in arrears, on shares of this Series called for redemption.
(5) Notice of redemption shall be given by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the County of Los Angeles and the City of New York, such publication to be made once a week for two successive weeks, commencing not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for redemption thereof. A similar notice will be mailed by the Trust by first class mail, postage pre-paid, to each record holder of the shares of this Series to be redeemed, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to such redemption date, to the respective addresses of such holders as the same shall appear on the share transfer records of the Trust. Each notice shall state: (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accumulate on such redemption date. If fewer than all the shares of this Series held by any holder are to be redeemed, the notice mailed to such holder shall also specify the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed from such holder.
(6) In order to facilitate the redemption of shares of this Series, the Board of Trustees may fix a record date for the determination of the shares to be redeemed, such record date to be not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for such redemption.
(7) Notice having been given as provided above, from and after the date fixed for the redemption of shares of this Series by the Trust (unless the Trust shall fail to make available the money necessary to effect such redemption), the holders of shares selected for redemption shall cease to be shareholders with respect to such shares and shall have no interest in or claim against the Trust by virtue thereof and shall have no voting or other rights with
 
respect to such shares, except the right to receive the moneys payable upon such redemption from the Trust, less any required tax withholding amount, without interest thereon, upon surrender (and endorsement or assignment of transfer, if required by the Trust and so stated in the notice) of their certificates, and the shares represented thereby shall no longer be deemed to be outstanding. If fewer than all the shares represented by a certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued, without cost to the holder thereof, representing the unredeemed shares. The Trust may, at its option, at any time after a notice of redemption has been given, deposit the redemption price for the shares of this Series designated for redemption and not yet redeemed, plus any accumulated and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for redemption, with the transfer agent or agents for this Series, as a trust fund for the benefit of the holders of the shares of this Series designated for redemption, together with irrevocable instructions and authority to such transfer agent or agents that such funds be delivered upon redemption of such shares and to pay, on and after the date fixed for redemption or prior thereto, the redemption price of the shares to their respective holders upon the surrender of their share certificates. From and after the making of such deposit, the holders of the shares designated for redemption shall cease to be shareholders with respect to such shares and shall have no interest in or claim against the Trust by virtue thereof and shall have no voting or other rights with respect to such shares, except the right to receive from such trust fund the moneys payable upon such redemption, without interest thereon, upon surrender (and endorsement or assignment of transfer, if required by the Trust and so stated in the notice) of their certificates, and the shares represented thereby shall no longer be deemed to be outstanding. Any balance of such moneys remaining unclaimed at the end of the five-year period commencing on the date fixed for redemption shall be repaid to the Trust upon its request expressed in a resolution of its Board of Trustees.
(8) Any shares of this Series that shall at any time have been redeemed shall, after such redemption, have the status of authorized but unissued Preferred Shares, without designation as to series until such shares are once more designated as part of a particular series by the Board of Trustees.
(9) If the Board of Trustees shall, at any time and in good faith, be of the opinion that ownership of securities of the Trust has or may become concentrated to an extent that may prevent the Trust from qualifying as a real estate investment trust under the REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, then the Board of Trustees shall have the power, by lot or other means deemed equitable by them to prevent the transfer of and/or to call for redemption a number of shares of this Series sufficient, in the opinion of the Board of Trustees, to maintain or bring the direct or indirect ownership thereof into conformity with the requirements of such a real estate investment trust under the REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. The redemption price to be paid for shares of this Series so called for redemption, on the date fixed for redemption, shall be (i) the closing sale price on any national securities exchange or trading market on which the shares of this Series are listed, or (ii) the last quoted price as reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotation System or any other United States automated inter-dealer quotation system, on the last business day prior to the redemption date, or if the shares of this Series so called for redemption are not listed on any such exchange, trading market or quotation system, at $25,000 per share of this Series (subject to adjustment in the case of share splits, combinations, share dividends and similar transactions); provided that if interests in shares of this Series are represented by depositary shares, then the
 
redemption price shall be determined in accordance with the foregoing, but with respect to one depositary share, multiplied by the number of depositary shares that together represent an interest in one share of this Series. From and after the date fixed for redemption by the Board of Trustees, the holder of any shares of this Series so called for redemption shall cease to be entitled to any distributions, voting rights and other benefits with respect to such shares of this Series, other than the right to payment of the redemption price determined as aforesaid. "REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code" shall mean Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. In order to exercise the redemption option set forth in this clause (9), with respect to the shares of this Series, the Trust shall give notice of redemption by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the County of Los Angeles and the City of New York, such publication to be made once a week for two successive weeks, commencing not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for redemption. A similar notice will be mailed by the Trust by first class mail, postage pre-paid, to each record holder of the shares of this Series to be redeemed, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to such redemption date, to the respective addresses of such holders as the same shall appear on the share transfer records of the Trust. Each notice shall state: (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accumulate on such redemption date. If fewer than all the shares of this Series held by any holder are to be redeemed, the notice mailed to such holder shall also specify the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed from such holder.
(d) . The shares of this Series shall not have any voting powers either general or special, except as required by law and except that:
Voting Rights
(1) If the Trust shall fail to pay full cumulative dividends on the shares of this Series or any other of its Preferred Shares for six quarterly dividend payment periods, whether or not consecutive (a ""), the holders of all outstanding Preferred Shares, voting as a single class without regard to series, will be entitled to elect two Trustees until full cumulative dividends for all past dividend payment periods on all Preferred Shares have been paid or declared and funds therefor set apart for payment. Such right to vote separately as a class to elect Trustees shall, when vested, be subject, always, to the same provisions for the vesting of such right to elect Trustees separately as a class in the case of future Dividend Defaults. At any time when such right to elect Trustees separately as a class shall have so vested, the Trust may, and upon the written request of the holders of record of not less than 20% of the total number of Preferred Shares of the Trust then outstanding shall, call a special meeting of shareholders for the election of Trustees. In the case of such a written request, such special meeting shall be held within 90 days after the delivery of such request and, in either case, at the place and upon the notice provided by law and in the Bylaws of the Trust, provided that the Trust shall not be required to call such a special meeting if such request is received less than 120 days before the date fixed for the next ensuing Annual Meeting of Shareholders of the Trust and the holders of all classes of outstanding Preferred Shares are afforded the opportunity to elect such Trustees (or fill any vacancy) at such Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Trustees elected as aforesaid shall serve until the next Annual Meeting of Shareholders of the Trust or until their respective successors shall be elected and qualified. If, prior to the end of the term of any Trustee elected as aforesaid, a vacancy in the office of such Trustee shall occur during the continuance of a
Dividend Default
 
Dividend Default by reason of death, resignation, or disability, such vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired term by the appointment of a new Trustee for the unexpired term of such former Trustee, such appointment to be made by the remaining Trustee elected as aforesaid.
(2) The affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least 66
2/3 
% of the outstanding shares of this Series, voting separately as a class, will be required for any amendment to the Declaration of Trust that will adversely alter or change the powers, preferences, privileges or rights of the shares of this Series, except as set forth below. The affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least 66
2/3 
% of the outstanding shares of this Series and any other series of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity with this Series as to dividends and upon liquidation (including the Parity Preferred Shares), voting as a single class without regard to series, will be required to issue, authorize or increase the authorized amount of any class or series of shares ranking prior to this Series as to dividends or upon liquidation or to issue or authorize any obligation or security convertible into or evidencing a right to purchase any such security, but the Declaration of Trust may be amended to increase the number of authorized Preferred Shares ranking on a parity with or junior to this Series or to create another class of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity with or junior to this Series without the vote of the holders of outstanding shares of this Series.
(e) . The shares of this Series are not convertible into shares of any other class or series of the shares of beneficial interest of this Trust.
Conversion
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Trust has caused these Articles Supplementary to be signed in its name and on its behalf by its Vice Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President and attested to by its Secretary as of May 30, 2007.
 
THE UNDERSIGNED, the Vice Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President of Public Storage, who executed on behalf of the Trust the foregoing Articles Supplementary of which this certificate is made a part, hereby acknowledges in the name and on behalf of said Trust the foregoing Articles Supplementary to be the duly authorized act of said Trust and hereby certifies to the best of his knowledge, information and belief that the matters and facts set forth herein with respect to the authorization and approval thereof are true in all material respects under the penalties of perjury.
 

Exhibit 3.15
PUBLIC STORAGE, a Maryland real estate investment trust (the ""), hereby certifies to the State Department of Assessments and Taxation of Maryland that:
Trust
FIRST: The articles of amendment and restatement of the Trust's declaration of trust (the "") authorize the issuance of 100,000,000 preferred shares of beneficial interest, par value $.01 per share (the "Preferred Shares"), issuable from time to time in one or more series, and authorize the Trust's board of trustees (the "") to classify or reclassify any unissued shares from time to time by setting or changing the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends, qualifications, or terms or conditions of redemption of such unissued shares.
Declaration of Trust
Board of Trustees
SECOND: In accordance with Section 8-203 of the Maryland REIT Law and pursuant to the authority expressly vested in the Board of Trustees by the Declaration of Trust, the Board of Trustees has duly divided and classified 8,000 Preferred Shares of the Trust as6.450% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series F ("").
Series F Preferred Shares
THIRD: The following is a description of the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends or distributions, qualifications, and terms and conditions of redemption of the Series F Preferred Shares of the Trust:
(a) .
Dividend Rights
(1) Dividends shall be payable in cash on the shares of this Series when, as and if declared by the Board of Trustees, out of funds legally available therefor: (i) for the period from April 1, 2007 to June 30, 2007, and (ii) for each quarterly dividend period thereafter (each quarterly dividend period thereafter being hereinafter individually referred to as a "" and collectively referred to as ""), which quarterly Dividend Periods shall be in four equal amounts and shall commence on January 1, April 1, July 1 and October 1 in each year (each, a ""), and shall end on and include the day next preceding the next Dividend Period Commencement Date, at a rate per annum equal to 6.450% of the $25,000 per share stated value thereof. Dividends on each share of this Series shall be cumulative from April 1, 2007 and shall be payable, without interest thereon, when, as and if declared by the Board of Trustees, on or before March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 of each year; , that if any such day shall be a Saturday, Sunday, or a day on which banking institutions in the State of New York or the State of California are authorized or obligated by law to close, or a day which is or is declared a national or a New York or California state holiday (any of the foregoing a ""), then the payment date shall be the next succeeding day which is not a Non-Business Day. Each such dividend shall be paid to the holders of record of shares of this Series as they appear on the share register of the Trust on such record date, not more than 45 days nor less than 15 days preceding
Dividend Period
Dividend Periods
Dividend Period Commencement Date
provided
Non-Business Day
the payment date thereof, as shall be fixed by the Board of Trustees. Dividends on account of arrears for any past Dividend Periods may be declared and paid at any time, without reference to any regular dividend payment date, to holders of record on such date, not more than 45 days nor less than 15 days preceding the payment date thereof, as may be fixed by the Board of Trustees. After full cumulative dividends on this Series have been paid or declared and funds therefor set aside for payment, including for the then current Dividend Period, the holders of shares of this Series will not be entitled to any further dividends with respect to that Dividend Period.
(2) Dividends payable on shares of this Series for any period greater or less than a full Dividend Period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.
(3) The Trust shall not declare or pay or set apart for payment any dividends on any series of Preferred Shares ranking, as to dividends, on a parity with or junior to the shares of this Series unless full cumulative dividends have been or contemporaneously are declared and paid, or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof is set apart for payment, on the shares of this Series for all Dividend Periods terminating on or prior to the date of payment of any such dividends on such other series of Preferred Shares. When dividends are not paid in full upon the shares of this Series and any other series of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity therewith as to dividends (including, without limitation, the Trust's 6.125% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series A, 7.125% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series B, 6.600% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series C, 6.180% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series D, 6.750% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series E, 7.000% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series G, 6.950% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series H, 7.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series I, 7.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series J, 7.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series K, 6.750% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series L, 6.625% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series M, 6.400% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series NN, 7.500% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series V, 6.500% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series W, 6.450% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series X, 6.850% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series Y, 6.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series Z (all of the foregoing, collectively the ""), all dividends declared upon shares of this Series and any other series of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity therewith as to dividends shall be declared pro rata so that the amount of dividends declared per share on the shares of this Series and such other series of Preferred Shares shall in all cases bear to each other that same ratio that the accumulated dividends per share on the shares of this Series and such other series of Preferred Shares bear to each other. Except as provided in the preceding sentence, unless full cumulative dividends on the shares of this Series have been paid, or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof is set apart for payment, for all past Dividend Periods, no dividends (other than in the Trust's common shares, par value $.10 per share (together with any other shares of beneficial interest of the Trust into which such shares shall be reclassified or changed ("")), or shares of beneficial interest ranking junior to the shares of this Series as to dividends and upon liquidation) shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment nor shall any other distribution be made upon the Common Shares or on any other shares of beneficial interest of the Trust ranking junior to or on a parity with the shares of this Series as to dividends or upon liquidation. Unless full cumulative dividends on the shares of this Series have been paid, or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof is set apart for payment, for all past Dividend Periods, no Common Shares or any other shares of beneficial interest of the Trust ranking junior to or on a
Parity Preferred Shares
Common Shares
 
parity with the shares of this Series as to dividends or upon liquidation shall be redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired for any consideration (or any moneys be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any shares of any such shares of beneficial interest) by the Trust or any subsidiary, except by conversion into or exchange for shares of beneficial interest of the Trust ranking junior to the shares of this Series as to dividends and upon liquidation.
(b) .
Liquidation
In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Trust, the holders of the shares of this Series are entitled to receive out of the assets of the Trust available for distribution to shareholders, before any distribution of assets is made to holders of Common Shares or any other class or series of shares ranking junior to the shares of this Series upon liquidation, liquidating distributions in the amount of $25,000 per share plus all accumulated and unpaid dividends (whether or not earned or declared) for the then current and all past Dividend Periods. If, upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Trust, the amounts payable with respect to the shares of this Series and any other shares of the Trust ranking as to any such distribution on a parity with the shares of this Series are not paid in full, the holders of shares of this Series and of such other shares (including the Parity Preferred Shares) will share ratably in any such distribution of assets of the Trust in proportion to the full respective preferential amounts to which they are entitled. After payment of the full amount of the liquidating distribution to which they are entitled, the holders of shares of this Series will not be entitled to any further participation in any distribution of assets by the Trust.
(1) Written notice of any such liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Trust, stating the payment date or dates when, and the place or places where the amounts distributable in such circumstances shall be payable, shall be given by first class mail, postage pre-paid, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the payment date stated therein, to each record holder of the shares of this Series at the respective addresses of such holders as the same shall appear on the share transfer records of the Trust.
(2) For purposes of liquidation rights, a reorganization, consolidation or merger of the Trust with or into any other entity or entities or a sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Trust shall be deemed not to be a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Trust.
(c) .
Redemption
(1) Except as provided in clause (9) below, the shares of this Series are not redeemable prior to August 23, 2010. On and after such date, the shares of this Series are redeemable at the option of the Trust, by resolution of the Board of Trustees, in whole or in part, from time to time upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' notice, at a cash redemption price of $25,000 per share plus all accumulated and unpaid dividends (whether or not earned or declared) to the date of redemption.
 
(2) If fewer than all the outstanding shares of this Series are to be redeemed, the number of shares to be redeemed will be determined by the Board of Trustees, and such shares shall be redeemed pro rata from the holders of record of such shares in proportion to the number of such shares held by such holders (with adjustments to avoid redemption of fractional shares) or by lot in a manner determined by the Board of Trustees.
(3) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any dividends, including any accumulation, on the shares of this Series are in arrears, no shares of this Series shall be redeemed unless all outstanding shares of this Series are simultaneously redeemed, and the Trust shall not purchase or otherwise acquire, directly or indirectly, any shares of this Series; , , that the foregoing shall not prevent the purchase or acquisition of shares of this Series pursuant to a purchase or exchange offer provided such offer is made on the same terms to all holders of shares of this Series.
provided
however
(4) Immediately prior to any redemption of shares of this Series, the Trust shall pay, in cash, any accumulated and unpaid dividends through the redemption date, unless a redemption date falls after a dividend payment record date and prior to the corresponding dividend payment date, in which case each holder of shares of this Series at the close of business on such dividend payment record date shall be entitled to the dividend payable on such shares on the corresponding dividend payment date notwithstanding the redemption of such shares before such dividend payment date. Except as expressly provided herein above, the Trust shall make no payment or allowance for unpaid dividends, whether or not in arrears, on shares of this Series called for redemption.
(5) Notice of redemption shall be given by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the County of Los Angeles and the City of New York, such publication to be made once a week for two successive weeks, commencing not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for redemption thereof. A similar notice will be mailed by the Trust by first class mail, postage pre-paid, to each record holder of the shares of this Series to be redeemed, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to such redemption date, to the respective addresses of such holders as the same shall appear on the share transfer records of the Trust. Each notice shall state: (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accumulate on such redemption date. If fewer than all the shares of this Series held by any holder are to be redeemed, the notice mailed to such holder shall also specify the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed from such holder.
(6) In order to facilitate the redemption of shares of this Series, the Board of Trustees may fix a record date for the determination of the shares to be redeemed, such record date to be not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for such redemption.
(7) Notice having been given as provided above, from and after the date fixed for the redemption of shares of this Series by the Trust (unless the Trust shall fail to make available the money necessary to effect such redemption), the holders of shares selected for redemption shall cease to be shareholders with respect to such shares and shall have no interest in or claim against the Trust by virtue thereof and shall have no voting or other rights with
 
respect to such shares, except the right to receive the moneys payable upon such redemption from the Trust, less any required tax withholding amount, without interest thereon, upon surrender (and endorsement or assignment of transfer, if required by the Trust and so stated in the notice) of their certificates, and the shares represented thereby shall no longer be deemed to be outstanding. If fewer than all the shares represented by a certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued, without cost to the holder thereof, representing the unredeemed shares. The Trust may, at its option, at any time after a notice of redemption has been given, deposit the redemption price for the shares of this Series designated for redemption and not yet redeemed, plus any accumulated and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for redemption, with the transfer agent or agents for this Series, as a trust fund for the benefit of the holders of the shares of this Series designated for redemption, together with irrevocable instructions and authority to such transfer agent or agents that such funds be delivered upon redemption of such shares and to pay, on and after the date fixed for redemption or prior thereto, the redemption price of the shares to their respective holders upon the surrender of their share certificates. From and after the making of such deposit, the holders of the shares designated for redemption shall cease to be shareholders with respect to such shares and shall have no interest in or claim against the Trust by virtue thereof and shall have no voting or other rights with respect to such shares, except the right to receive from such trust fund the moneys payable upon such redemption, without interest thereon, upon surrender (and endorsement or assignment of transfer, if required by the Trust and so stated in the notice) of their certificates, and the shares represented thereby shall no longer be deemed to be outstanding. Any balance of such moneys remaining unclaimed at the end of the five-year period commencing on the date fixed for redemption shall be repaid to the Trust upon its request expressed in a resolution of its Board of Trustees.
(8) Any shares of this Series that shall at any time have been redeemed shall, after such redemption, have the status of authorized but unissued Preferred Shares, without designation as to series until such shares are once more designated as part of a particular series by the Board of Trustees.
(9) If the Board of Trustees shall, at any time and in good faith, be of the opinion that ownership of securities of the Trust has or may become concentrated to an extent that may prevent the Trust from qualifying as a real estate investment trust under the REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, then the Board of Trustees shall have the power, by lot or other means deemed equitable by them to prevent the transfer of and/or to call for redemption a number of shares of this Series sufficient, in the opinion of the Board of Trustees, to maintain or bring the direct or indirect ownership thereof into conformity with the requirements of such a real estate investment trust under the REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. The redemption price to be paid for shares of this Series so called for redemption, on the date fixed for redemption, shall be (i) the closing sale price on any national securities exchange or trading market on which the shares of this Series are listed, or (ii) the last quoted price as reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotation System or any other United States automated inter-dealer quotation system, on the last business day prior to the redemption date, or if the shares of this Series so called for redemption are not listed on any such exchange, trading market or quotation system, at $25,000 per share of this Series (subject to adjustment in the case of share splits, combinations, share dividends and similar transactions); provided that if interests in shares of this Series are represented by depositary shares, then the
 
redemption price shall be determined in accordance with the foregoing, but with respect to one depositary share, multiplied by the number of depositary shares that together represent an interest in one share of this Series. From and after the date fixed for redemption by the Board of Trustees, the holder of any shares of this Series so called for redemption shall cease to be entitled to any distributions, voting rights and other benefits with respect to such shares of this Series, other than the right to payment of the redemption price determined as aforesaid. "REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code" shall mean Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. In order to exercise the redemption option set forth in this clause (9), with respect to the shares of this Series, the Trust shall give notice of redemption by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the County of Los Angeles and the City of New York, such publication to be made once a week for two successive weeks, commencing not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for redemption. A similar notice will be mailed by the Trust by first class mail, postage pre-paid, to each record holder of the shares of this Series to be redeemed, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to such redemption date, to the respective addresses of such holders as the same shall appear on the share transfer records of the Trust. Each notice shall state: (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accumulate on such redemption date. If fewer than all the shares of this Series held by any holder are to be redeemed, the notice mailed to such holder shall also specify the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed from such holder.
(d) . The shares of this Series shall not have any voting powers either general or special, except as required by law and except that:
Voting Rights
(1) If the Trust shall fail to pay full cumulative dividends on the shares of this Series or any other of its Preferred Shares for six quarterly dividend payment periods, whether or not consecutive (a ""), the holders of all outstanding Preferred Shares, voting as a single class without regard to series, will be entitled to elect two Trustees until full cumulative dividends for all past dividend payment periods on all Preferred Shares have been paid or declared and funds therefor set apart for payment. Such right to vote separately as a class to elect Trustees shall, when vested, be subject, always, to the same provisions for the vesting of such right to elect Trustees separately as a class in the case of future Dividend Defaults. At any time when such right to elect Trustees separately as a class shall have so vested, the Trust may, and upon the written request of the holders of record of not less than 20% of the total number of Preferred Shares of the Trust then outstanding shall, call a special meeting of shareholders for the election of Trustees. In the case of such a written request, such special meeting shall be held within 90 days after the delivery of such request and, in either case, at the place and upon the notice provided by law and in the Bylaws of the Trust, provided that the Trust shall not be required to call such a special meeting if such request is received less than 120 days before the date fixed for the next ensuing Annual Meeting of Shareholders of the Trust and the holders of all classes of outstanding Preferred Shares are afforded the opportunity to elect such Trustees (or fill any vacancy) at such Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Trustees elected as aforesaid shall serve until the next Annual Meeting of Shareholders of the Trust or until their respective successors shall be elected and qualified. If, prior to the end of the term of any Trustee elected as aforesaid, a vacancy in the office of such Trustee shall occur during the continuance of a
Dividend Default
 
Dividend Default by reason of death, resignation, or disability, such vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired term by the appointment of a new Trustee for the unexpired term of such former Trustee, such appointment to be made by the remaining Trustee elected as aforesaid.
(2) The affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least 66
2/3 
% of the outstanding shares of this Series, voting separately as a class, will be required for any amendment to the Declaration of Trust that will adversely alter or change the powers, preferences, privileges or rights of the shares of this Series, except as set forth below. The affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least 66
2/3 
% of the outstanding shares of this Series and any other series of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity with this Series as to dividends and upon liquidation (including the Parity Preferred Shares), voting as a single class without regard to series, will be required to issue, authorize or increase the authorized amount of any class or series of shares ranking prior to this Series as to dividends or upon liquidation or to issue or authorize any obligation or security convertible into or evidencing a right to purchase any such security, but the Declaration of Trust may be amended to increase the number of authorized Preferred Shares ranking on a parity with or junior to this Series or to create another class of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity with or junior to this Series without the vote of the holders of outstanding shares of this Series.
(e) . The shares of this Series are not convertible into shares of any other class or series of the shares of beneficial interest of this Trust.
Conversion
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Trust has caused these Articles Supplementary to be signed in its name and on its behalf by its Vice Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President and attested to by its Secretary as of May 30, 2007.
 
THE UNDERSIGNED, the Vice Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President of Public Storage, who executed on behalf of the Trust the foregoing Articles Supplementary of which this certificate is made a part, hereby acknowledges in the name and on behalf of said Trust the foregoing Articles Supplementary to be the duly authorized act of said Trust and hereby certifies to the best of his knowledge, information and belief that the matters and facts set forth herein with respect to the authorization and approval thereof are true in all material respects under the penalties of perjury.
 

Exhibit 3.16
PUBLIC STORAGE, a Maryland real estate investment trust (the ""), hereby certifies to the State Department of Assessments and Taxation of Maryland that:
Trust
FIRST: The articles of amendment and restatement of the Trust's declaration of trust (the "") authorize the issuance of 100,000,000 preferred shares of beneficial interest, par value $.01 per share (the "Preferred Shares"), issuable from time to time in one or more series, and authorize the Trust's board of trustees (the "") to classify or reclassify any unissued shares from time to time by setting or changing the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends, qualifications, or terms or conditions of redemption of such unissued shares.
Declaration of Trust
Board of Trustees
SECOND: In accordance with Section 8-203 of the Maryland REIT Law and pursuant to the authority expressly vested in the Board of Trustees by the Declaration of Trust, the Board of Trustees has duly divided and classified 4,000 Preferred Shares of the Trust as 7.000% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series G ("").
Series G Preferred Shares
THIRD: The following is a description of the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends or distributions, qualifications, and terms and conditions of redemption of the Series G Preferred Shares of the Trust:
(a) .
Dividend Rights
(1) Dividends shall be payable in cash on the shares of this Series when, as and if declared by the Board of Trustees, out of funds legally available therefor: (i) for the period from April 1, 2007 to June 30, 2007, and (ii) for each quarterly dividend period thereafter (each quarterly dividend period thereafter being hereinafter individually referred to as a "" and collectively referred to as ""), which quarterly Dividend Periods shall be in four equal amounts and shall commence on January 1, April 1, July 1 and October 1 in each year (each, a ""), and shall end on and include the day next preceding the next Dividend Period Commencement Date, at a rate per annum equal to 7.000% of the $25,000 per share stated value thereof. Dividends on each share of this Series shall be cumulative from April 1, 2007 and shall be payable, without interest thereon, when, as and if declared by the Board of Trustees, on or before March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 of each year; , that if any such day shall be a Saturday, Sunday, or a day on which banking institutions in the State of New York or the State of California are authorized or obligated by law to close, or a day which is or is declared a national or a New York or California state holiday (any of the foregoing a ""), then the payment date shall be the next succeeding day which is not a Non-Business Day. Each such dividend shall be paid to the holders of record of shares of this Series as they appear on the share register of the Trust on such record date, not more than 45 days nor less than 15 days preceding
Dividend Period
Dividend Periods
Dividend Period Commencement Date
provided
Non-Business Day
the payment date thereof, as shall be fixed by the Board of Trustees. Dividends on account of arrears for any past Dividend Periods may be declared and paid at any time, without reference to any regular dividend payment date, to holders of record on such date, not more than 45 days nor less than 15 days preceding the payment date thereof, as may be fixed by the Board of Trustees. After full cumulative dividends on this Series have been paid or declared and funds therefor set aside for payment, including for the then current Dividend Period, the holders of shares of this Series will not be entitled to any further dividends with respect to that Dividend Period.
(2) Dividends payable on shares of this Series for any period greater or less than a full Dividend Period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.
(3) The Trust shall not declare or pay or set apart for payment any dividends on any series of Preferred Shares ranking, as to dividends, on a parity with or junior to the shares of this Series unless full cumulative dividends have been or contemporaneously are declared and paid, or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof is set apart for payment, on the shares of this Series for all Dividend Periods terminating on or prior to the date of payment of any such dividends on such other series of Preferred Shares. When dividends are not paid in full upon the shares of this Series and any other series of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity therewith as to dividends (including, without limitation, the Trust's 6.125% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series A, 7.125% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series B, 6.600% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series C, 6.180% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series D, 6.750% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series E, 6.450% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series F, 6.950% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series H, 7.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series I, 7.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series J, 7.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series K, 6.750% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series L, 6.625% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series M, 6.400% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series NN, 7.500% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series V, 6.500% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series W, 6.450% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series X, 6.850% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series Y, 6.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series Z (all of the foregoing, collectively the ""), all dividends declared upon shares of this Series and any other series of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity therewith as to dividends shall be declared pro rata so that the amount of dividends declared per share on the shares of this Series and such other series of Preferred Shares shall in all cases bear to each other that same ratio that the accumulated dividends per share on the shares of this Series and such other series of Preferred Shares bear to each other. Except as provided in the preceding sentence, unless full cumulative dividends on the shares of this Series have been paid, or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof is set apart for payment, for all past Dividend Periods, no dividends (other than in the Trust's common shares, par value $.10 per share (together with any other shares of beneficial interest of the Trust into which such shares shall be reclassified or changed ("")), or shares of beneficial interest ranking junior to the shares of this Series as to dividends and upon liquidation) shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment nor shall any other distribution be made upon the Common Shares or on any other shares of beneficial interest of the Trust ranking junior to or on a parity with the shares of this Series as to dividends or upon liquidation. Unless full cumulative dividends on the shares of this Series have been paid, or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof is set apart for payment, for all past Dividend Periods, no
Parity Preferred Shares
Common Shares
 
Common Shares or any other shares of beneficial interest of the Trust ranking junior to or on a parity with the shares of this Series as to dividends or upon liquidation shall be redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired for any consideration (or any moneys be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any shares of any such shares of beneficial interest) by the Trust or any subsidiary, except by conversion into or exchange for shares of beneficial interest of the Trust ranking junior to the shares of this Series as to dividends and upon liquidation.
(b) .
Liquidation
In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Trust, the holders of the shares of this Series are entitled to receive out of the assets of the Trust available for distribution to shareholders, before any distribution of assets is made to holders of Common Shares or any other class or series of shares ranking junior to the shares of this Series upon liquidation, liquidating distributions in the amount of $25,000 per share plus all accumulated and unpaid dividends (whether or not earned or declared) for the then current and all past Dividend Periods. If, upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Trust, the amounts payable with respect to the shares of this Series and any other shares of the Trust ranking as to any such distribution on a parity with the shares of this Series are not paid in full, the holders of shares of this Series and of such other shares (including the Parity Preferred Shares) will share ratably in any such distribution of assets of the Trust in proportion to the full respective preferential amounts to which they are entitled. After payment of the full amount of the liquidating distribution to which they are entitled, the holders of shares of this Series will not be entitled to any further participation in any distribution of assets by the Trust.
(1) Written notice of any such liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Trust, stating the payment date or dates when, and the place or places where the amounts distributable in such circumstances shall be payable, shall be given by first class mail, postage pre-paid, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the payment date stated therein, to each record holder of the shares of this Series at the respective addresses of such holders as the same shall appear on the share transfer records of the Trust.
(2) For purposes of liquidation rights, a reorganization, consolidation or merger of the Trust with or into any other entity or entities or a sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Trust shall be deemed not to be a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Trust.
(c) .
Redemption
(1) Except as provided in clause (9) below, the shares of this Series are not redeemable prior to December 12, 2010. On and after such date, the shares of this Series are redeemable at the option of the Trust, by resolution of the Board of Trustees, in whole or in part, from time to time upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' notice, at a cash redemption price of $25,000 per share plus all accumulated and unpaid dividends (whether or not earned or declared) to the date of redemption.
 
(2) If fewer than all the outstanding shares of this Series are to be redeemed, the number of shares to be redeemed will be determined by the Board of Trustees, and such shares shall be redeemed pro rata from the holders of record of such shares in proportion to the number of such shares held by such holders (with adjustments to avoid redemption of fractional shares) or by lot in a manner determined by the Board of Trustees.
(3) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any dividends, including any accumulation, on the shares of this Series are in arrears, no shares of this Series shall be redeemed unless all outstanding shares of this Series are simultaneously redeemed, and the Trust shall not purchase or otherwise acquire, directly or indirectly, any shares of this Series; , , that the foregoing shall not prevent the purchase or acquisition of shares of this Series pursuant to a purchase or exchange offer provided such offer is made on the same terms to all holders of shares of this Series.
provided
however
(4) Immediately prior to any redemption of shares of this Series, the Trust shall pay, in cash, any accumulated and unpaid dividends through the redemption date, unless a redemption date falls after a dividend payment record date and prior to the corresponding dividend payment date, in which case each holder of shares of this Series at the close of business on such dividend payment record date shall be entitled to the dividend payable on such shares on the corresponding dividend payment date notwithstanding the redemption of such shares before such dividend payment date. Except as expressly provided herein above, the Trust shall make no payment or allowance for unpaid dividends, whether or not in arrears, on shares of this Series called for redemption.
(5) Notice of redemption shall be given by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the County of Los Angeles and the City of New York, such publication to be made once a week for two successive weeks, commencing not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for redemption thereof. A similar notice will be mailed by the Trust by first class mail, postage pre-paid, to each record holder of the shares of this Series to be redeemed, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to such redemption date, to the respective addresses of such holders as the same shall appear on the share transfer records of the Trust. Each notice shall state: (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accumulate on such redemption date. If fewer than all the shares of this Series held by any holder are to be redeemed, the notice mailed to such holder shall also specify the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed from such holder.
(6) In order to facilitate the redemption of shares of this Series, the Board of Trustees may fix a record date for the determination of the shares to be redeemed, such record date to be not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for such redemption.
(7) Notice having been given as provided above, from and after the date fixed for the redemption of shares of this Series by the Trust (unless the Trust shall fail to make available the money necessary to effect such redemption), the holders of shares selected for redemption shall cease to be shareholders with respect to such shares and shall have no interest
 
in or claim against the Trust by virtue thereof and shall have no voting or other rights with respect to such shares, except the right to receive the moneys payable upon such redemption from the Trust, less any required tax withholding amount, without interest thereon, upon surrender (and endorsement or assignment of transfer, if required by the Trust and so stated in the notice) of their certificates, and the shares represented thereby shall no longer be deemed to be outstanding. If fewer than all the shares represented by a certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued, without cost to the holder thereof, representing the unredeemed shares. The Trust may, at its option, at any time after a notice of redemption has been given, deposit the redemption price for the shares of this Series designated for redemption and not yet redeemed, plus any accumulated and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for redemption, with the transfer agent or agents for this Series, as a trust fund for the benefit of the holders of the shares of this Series designated for redemption, together with irrevocable instructions and authority to such transfer agent or agents that such funds be delivered upon redemption of such shares and to pay, on and after the date fixed for redemption or prior thereto, the redemption price of the shares to their respective holders upon the surrender of their share certificates. From and after the making of such deposit, the holders of the shares designated for redemption shall cease to be shareholders with respect to such shares and shall have no interest in or claim against the Trust by virtue thereof and shall have no voting or other rights with respect to such shares, except the right to receive from such trust fund the moneys payable upon such redemption, without interest thereon, upon surrender (and endorsement or assignment of transfer, if required by the Trust and so stated in the notice) of their certificates, and the shares represented thereby shall no longer be deemed to be outstanding. Any balance of such moneys remaining unclaimed at the end of the five-year period commencing on the date fixed for redemption shall be repaid to the Trust upon its request expressed in a resolution of its Board of Trustees.
(8) Any shares of this Series that shall at any time have been redeemed shall, after such redemption, have the status of authorized but unissued Preferred Shares, without designation as to series until such shares are once more designated as part of a particular series by the Board of Trustees.
(9) If the Board of Trustees shall, at any time and in good faith, be of the opinion that ownership of securities of the Trust has or may become concentrated to an extent that may prevent the Trust from qualifying as a real estate investment trust under the REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, then the Board of Trustees shall have the power, by lot or other means deemed equitable by them to prevent the transfer of and/or to call for redemption a number of shares of this Series sufficient, in the opinion of the Board of Trustees, to maintain or bring the direct or indirect ownership thereof into conformity with the requirements of such a real estate investment trust under the REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. The redemption price to be paid for shares of this Series so called for redemption, on the date fixed for redemption, shall be (i) the closing sale price on any national securities exchange or trading market on which the shares of this Series are listed, or (ii) the last quoted price as reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotation System or any other United States automated inter-dealer quotation system, on the last business day prior to the redemption date, or if the shares of this Series so called for redemption are not listed on any such exchange, trading market or quotation system, at $25,000 per share of this Series (subject to
 
adjustment in the case of share splits, combinations, share dividends and similar transactions); provided that if interests in shares of this Series are represented by depositary shares, then the redemption price shall be determined in accordance with the foregoing, but with respect to one depositary share, multiplied by the number of depositary shares that together represent an interest in one share of this Series. From and after the date fixed for redemption by the Board of Trustees, the holder of any shares of this Series so called for redemption shall cease to be entitled to any distributions, voting rights and other benefits with respect to such shares of this Series, other than the right to payment of the redemption price determined as aforesaid. "REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code" shall mean Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. In order to exercise the redemption option set forth in this clause (9), with respect to the shares of this Series, the Trust shall give notice of redemption by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the County of Los Angeles and the City of New York, such publication to be made once a week for two successive weeks, commencing not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for redemption. A similar notice will be mailed by the Trust by first class mail, postage pre-paid, to each record holder of the shares of this Series to be redeemed, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to such redemption date, to the respective addresses of such holders as the same shall appear on the share transfer records of the Trust. Each notice shall state: (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accumulate on such redemption date. If fewer than all the shares of this Series held by any holder are to be redeemed, the notice mailed to such holder shall also specify the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed from such holder.
(d) . The shares of this Series shall not have any voting powers either general or special, except as required by law and except that:
Voting Rights
(1) If the Trust shall fail to pay full cumulative dividends on the shares of this Series or any other of its Preferred Shares for six quarterly dividend payment periods, whether or not consecutive (a ""), the holders of all outstanding Preferred Shares, voting as a single class without regard to series, will be entitled to elect two Trustees until full cumulative dividends for all past dividend payment periods on all Preferred Shares have been paid or declared and funds therefor set apart for payment. Such right to vote separately as a class to elect Trustees shall, when vested, be subject, always, to the same provisions for the vesting of such right to elect Trustees separately as a class in the case of future Dividend Defaults. At any time when such right to elect Trustees separately as a class shall have so vested, the Trust may, and upon the written request of the holders of record of not less than 20% of the total number of Preferred Shares of the Trust then outstanding shall, call a special meeting of shareholders for the election of Trustees. In the case of such a written request, such special meeting shall be held within 90 days after the delivery of such request and, in either case, at the place and upon the notice provided by law and in the Bylaws of the Trust, provided that the Trust shall not be required to call such a special meeting if such request is received less than 120 days before the date fixed for the next ensuing Annual Meeting of Shareholders of the Trust and the holders of all classes of outstanding Preferred Shares are afforded the opportunity to elect such Trustees (or fill any vacancy) at such Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Trustees elected as aforesaid shall
Dividend Default
 
serve until the next Annual Meeting of Shareholders of the Trust or until their respective successors shall be elected and qualified. If, prior to the end of the term of any Trustee elected as aforesaid, a vacancy in the office of such Trustee shall occur during the continuance of a Dividend Default by reason of death, resignation, or disability, such vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired term by the appointment of a new Trustee for the unexpired term of such former Trustee, such appointment to be made by the remaining Trustee elected as aforesaid.
(2) The affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least 66
2/3 
% of the outstanding shares of this Series, voting separately as a class, will be required for any amendment to the Declaration of Trust that will adversely alter or change the powers, preferences, privileges or rights of the shares of this Series, except as set forth below. The affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least 66
2/3 
% of the outstanding shares of this Series and any other series of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity with this Series as to dividends and upon liquidation (including the Parity Preferred Shares), voting as a single class without regard to series, will be required to issue, authorize or increase the authorized amount of any class or series of shares ranking prior to this Series as to dividends or upon liquidation or to issue or authorize any obligation or security convertible into or evidencing a right to purchase any such security, but the Declaration of Trust may be amended to increase the number of authorized Preferred Shares ranking on a parity with or junior to this Series or to create another class of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity with or junior to this Series without the vote of the holders of outstanding shares of this Series.
(e) . The shares of this Series are not convertible into shares of any other class or series of the shares of beneficial interest of this Trust.
Conversion
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Trust has caused these Articles Supplementary to be signed in its name and on its behalf by its Vice Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President and attested to by its Secretary as of May 30, 2007.
 
THE UNDERSIGNED, the Vice Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President of Public Storage, who executed on behalf of the Trust the foregoing Articles Supplementary of which this certificate is made a part, hereby acknowledges in the name and on behalf of said Trust the foregoing Articles Supplementary to be the duly authorized act of said Trust and hereby certifies to the best of his knowledge, information and belief that the matters and facts set forth herein with respect to the authorization and approval thereof are true in all material respects under the penalties of perjury.
 

Exhibit 3.17
PUBLIC STORAGE, a Maryland real estate investment trust (the ""), hereby certifies to the State Department of Assessments and Taxation of Maryland that:
Trust
FIRST: The articles of amendment and restatement of the Trust's declaration of trust (the "") authorize the issuance of 100,000,000 preferred shares of beneficial interest, par value $.01 per share (the "Preferred Shares"), issuable from time to time in one or more series, and authorize the Trust's board of trustees (the "") to classify or reclassify any unissued shares from time to time by setting or changing the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends, qualifications, or terms or conditions of redemption of such unissued shares.
Declaration of Trust
Board of Trustees
SECOND: In accordance with Section 8-203 of the Maryland REIT Law and pursuant to the authority expressly vested in the Board of Trustees by the Declaration of Trust, the Board of Trustees has duly divided and classified 4,600 Preferred Shares of the Trust as 6.950% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series H ("").
Series H Preferred Shares
THIRD: The following is a description of the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends or distributions, qualifications, and terms and conditions of redemption of the Series H Preferred Shares of the Trust:
(a) .
Dividend Rights
(1) Dividends shall be payable in cash on the shares of this Series when, as and if declared by the Board of Trustees, out of funds legally available therefor: (i) for the period from April 1, 2007 to June 30, 2007, and (ii) for each quarterly dividend period thereafter (each quarterly dividend period thereafter being hereinafter individually referred to as a "" and collectively referred to as ""), which quarterly Dividend Periods shall be in four equal amounts and shall commence on January 1, April 1, July 1 and October 1 in each year (each, a ""), and shall end on and include the day next preceding the next Dividend Period Commencement Date, at a rate per annum equal to 6.950% of the $25,000 per share stated value thereof. Dividends on each share of this Series shall be cumulative from April 1, 2007 and shall be payable, without interest thereon, when, as and if declared by the Board of Trustees, on or before March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 of each year; , that if any such day shall be a Saturday, Sunday, or a day on which banking institutions in the State of New York or the State of California are authorized or obligated by law to close, or a day which is or is declared a national or a New York or California state holiday (any of the foregoing a ""), then the payment date shall be the next succeeding day which is not a Non-Business Day. Each such dividend shall be paid to the holders of record of shares of this Series as they appear on the share register of the Trust on such record date, not more than 45 days nor less than 15 days preceding
Dividend Period
Dividend Periods
Dividend Period Commencement Date
provided
Non-Business Day
the payment date thereof, as shall be fixed by the Board of Trustees. Dividends on account of arrears for any past Dividend Periods may be declared and paid at any time, without reference to any regular dividend payment date, to holders of record on such date, not more than 45 days nor less than 15 days preceding the payment date thereof, as may be fixed by the Board of Trustees. After full cumulative dividends on this Series have been paid or declared and funds therefor set aside for payment, including for the then current Dividend Period, the holders of shares of this Series will not be entitled to any further dividends with respect to that Dividend Period.
(2) Dividends payable on shares of this Series for any period greater or less than a full Dividend Period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.
(3) The Trust shall not declare or pay or set apart for payment any dividends on any series of Preferred Shares ranking, as to dividends, on a parity with or junior to the shares of this Series unless full cumulative dividends have been or contemporaneously are declared and paid, or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof is set apart for payment, on the shares of this Series for all Dividend Periods terminating on or prior to the date of payment of any such dividends on such other series of Preferred Shares. When dividends are not paid in full upon the shares of this Series and any other series of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity therewith as to dividends (including, without limitation, the Trust's 6.125% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series A, 7.125% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series B, 6.600% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series C, 6.180% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series D, 6.750% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series E, 6.450% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series F, 7.000% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series G, 7.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series I, 7.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series J, 7.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series K, 6.750% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series L, 6.625% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series M, 6.400% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series NN, 7.500% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series V, 6.500% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series W, 6.450% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series X, 6.850% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series Y, 6.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series Z (all of the foregoing, collectively the ""), all dividends declared upon shares of this Series and any other series of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity therewith as to dividends shall be declared pro rata so that the amount of dividends declared per share on the shares of this Series and such other series of Preferred Shares shall in all cases bear to each other that same ratio that the accumulated dividends per share on the shares of this Series and such other series of Preferred Shares bear to each other. Except as provided in the preceding sentence, unless full cumulative dividends on the shares of this Series have been paid, or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof is set apart for payment, for all past Dividend Periods, no dividends (other than in the Trust's common shares, par value $.10 per share (together with any other shares of beneficial interest of the Trust into which such shares shall be reclassified or changed ("")), or shares of beneficial interest ranking junior to the shares of this Series as to dividends and upon liquidation) shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment nor shall any other distribution be made upon the Common Shares or on any other shares of beneficial interest of the Trust ranking junior to or on a parity with the shares of this Series as to dividends or upon liquidation. Unless full cumulative dividends on the shares of this Series have been paid, or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof is set apart for payment, for all past Dividend Periods, no
Parity Preferred Shares
Common Shares
 
Common Shares or any other shares of beneficial interest of the Trust ranking junior to or on a parity with the shares of this Series as to dividends or upon liquidation shall be redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired for any consideration (or any moneys be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any shares of any such shares of beneficial interest) by the Trust or any subsidiary, except by conversion into or exchange for shares of beneficial interest of the Trust ranking junior to the shares of this Series as to dividends and upon liquidation.
(b) .
Liquidation
In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Trust, the holders of the shares of this Series are entitled to receive out of the assets of the Trust available for distribution to shareholders, before any distribution of assets is made to holders of Common Shares or any other class or series of shares ranking junior to the shares of this Series upon liquidation, liquidating distributions in the amount of $25,000 per share plus all accumulated and unpaid dividends (whether or not earned or declared) for the then current and all past Dividend Periods. If, upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Trust, the amounts payable with respect to the shares of this Series and any other shares of the Trust ranking as to any such distribution on a parity with the shares of this Series are not paid in full, the holders of shares of this Series and of such other shares (including the Parity Preferred Shares) will share ratably in any such distribution of assets of the Trust in proportion to the full respective preferential amounts to which they are entitled. After payment of the full amount of the liquidating distribution to which they are entitled, the holders of shares of this Series will not be entitled to any further participation in any distribution of assets by the Trust.
(1) Written notice of any such liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Trust, stating the payment date or dates when, and the place or places where the amounts distributable in such circumstances shall be payable, shall be given by first class mail, postage pre-paid, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the payment date stated therein, to each record holder of the shares of this Series at the respective addresses of such holders as the same shall appear on the share transfer records of the Trust.
(2) For purposes of liquidation rights, a reorganization, consolidation or merger of the Trust with or into any other entity or entities or a sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Trust shall be deemed not to be a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Trust.
(c) .
Redemption
(1) Except as provided in clause (9) below, the shares of this Series are not redeemable prior to January 19, 2011. On and after such date, the shares of this Series are redeemable at the option of the Trust, by resolution of the Board of Trustees, in whole or in part, from time to time upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' notice, at a cash redemption price of $25,000 per share plus all accumulated and unpaid dividends (whether or not earned or declared) to the date of redemption.
 
(2) If fewer than all the outstanding shares of this Series are to be redeemed, the number of shares to be redeemed will be determined by the Board of Trustees, and such shares shall be redeemed pro rata from the holders of record of such shares in proportion to the number of such shares held by such holders (with adjustments to avoid redemption of fractional shares) or by lot in a manner determined by the Board of Trustees.
(3) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any dividends, including any accumulation, on the shares of this Series are in arrears, no shares of this Series shall be redeemed unless all outstanding shares of this Series are simultaneously redeemed, and the Trust shall not purchase or otherwise acquire, directly or indirectly, any shares of this Series; , , that the foregoing shall not prevent the purchase or acquisition of shares of this Series pursuant to a purchase or exchange offer provided such offer is made on the same terms to all holders of shares of this Series.
provided
however
(4) Immediately prior to any redemption of shares of this Series, the Trust shall pay, in cash, any accumulated and unpaid dividends through the redemption date, unless a redemption date falls after a dividend payment record date and prior to the corresponding dividend payment date, in which case each holder of shares of this Series at the close of business on such dividend payment record date shall be entitled to the dividend payable on such shares on the corresponding dividend payment date notwithstanding the redemption of such shares before such dividend payment date. Except as expressly provided herein above, the Trust shall make no payment or allowance for unpaid dividends, whether or not in arrears, on shares of this Series called for redemption.
(5) Notice of redemption shall be given by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the County of Los Angeles and the City of New York, such publication to be made once a week for two successive weeks, commencing not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for redemption thereof. A similar notice will be mailed by the Trust by first class mail, postage pre-paid, to each record holder of the shares of this Series to be redeemed, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to such redemption date, to the respective addresses of such holders as the same shall appear on the share transfer records of the Trust. Each notice shall state: (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accumulate on such redemption date. If fewer than all the shares of this Series held by any holder are to be redeemed, the notice mailed to such holder shall also specify the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed from such holder.
(6) In order to facilitate the redemption of shares of this Series, the Board of Trustees may fix a record date for the determination of the shares to be redeemed, such record date to be not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for such redemption.
(7) Notice having been given as provided above, from and after the date fixed for the redemption of shares of this Series by the Trust (unless the Trust shall fail to make available the money necessary to effect such redemption), the holders of shares selected for redemption shall cease to be shareholders with respect to such shares and shall have no interest
 
in or claim against the Trust by virtue thereof and shall have no voting or other rights with respect to such shares, except the right to receive the moneys payable upon such redemption from the Trust, less any required tax withholding amount, without interest thereon, upon surrender (and endorsement or assignment of transfer, if required by the Trust and so stated in the notice) of their certificates, and the shares represented thereby shall no longer be deemed to be outstanding. If fewer than all the shares represented by a certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued, without cost to the holder thereof, representing the unredeemed shares. The Trust may, at its option, at any time after a notice of redemption has been given, deposit the redemption price for the shares of this Series designated for redemption and not yet redeemed, plus any accumulated and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for redemption, with the transfer agent or agents for this Series, as a trust fund for the benefit of the holders of the shares of this Series designated for redemption, together with irrevocable instructions and authority to such transfer agent or agents that such funds be delivered upon redemption of such shares and to pay, on and after the date fixed for redemption or prior thereto, the redemption price of the shares to their respective holders upon the surrender of their share certificates. From and after the making of such deposit, the holders of the shares designated for redemption shall cease to be shareholders with respect to such shares and shall have no interest in or claim against the Trust by virtue thereof and shall have no voting or other rights with respect to such shares, except the right to receive from such trust fund the moneys payable upon such redemption, without interest thereon, upon surrender (and endorsement or assignment of transfer, if required by the Trust and so stated in the notice) of their certificates, and the shares represented thereby shall no longer be deemed to be outstanding. Any balance of such moneys remaining unclaimed at the end of the five-year period commencing on the date fixed for redemption shall be repaid to the Trust upon its request expressed in a resolution of its Board of Trustees.
(8) Any shares of this Series that shall at any time have been redeemed shall, after such redemption, have the status of authorized but unissued Preferred Shares, without designation as to series until such shares are once more designated as part of a particular series by the Board of Trustees.
(9) If the Board of Trustees shall, at any time and in good faith, be of the opinion that ownership of securities of the Trust has or may become concentrated to an extent that may prevent the Trust from qualifying as a real estate investment trust under the REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, then the Board of Trustees shall have the power, by lot or other means deemed equitable by them to prevent the transfer of and/or to call for redemption a number of shares of this Series sufficient, in the opinion of the Board of Trustees, to maintain or bring the direct or indirect ownership thereof into conformity with the requirements of such a real estate investment trust under the REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. The redemption price to be paid for shares of this Series so called for redemption, on the date fixed for redemption, shall be (i) the closing sale price on any national securities exchange or trading market on which the shares of this Series are listed, or (ii) the last quoted price as reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotation System or any other United States automated inter-dealer quotation system, on the last business day prior to the redemption date, or if the shares of this Series so called for redemption are not listed on any such exchange, trading market or quotation system, at $25,000 per share of this Series (subject to
 
adjustment in the case of share splits, combinations, share dividends and similar transactions); provided that if interests in shares of this Series are represented by depositary shares, then the redemption price shall be determined in accordance with the foregoing, but with respect to one depositary share, multiplied by the number of depositary shares that together represent an interest in one share of this Series. From and after the date fixed for redemption by the Board of Trustees, the holder of any shares of this Series so called for redemption shall cease to be entitled to any distributions, voting rights and other benefits with respect to such shares of this Series, other than the right to payment of the redemption price determined as aforesaid. "REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code" shall mean Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. In order to exercise the redemption option set forth in this clause (9), with respect to the shares of this Series, the Trust shall give notice of redemption by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the County of Los Angeles and the City of New York, such publication to be made once a week for two successive weeks, commencing not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for redemption. A similar notice will be mailed by the Trust by first class mail, postage pre-paid, to each record holder of the shares of this Series to be redeemed, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to such redemption date, to the respective addresses of such holders as the same shall appear on the share transfer records of the Trust. Each notice shall state: (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accumulate on such redemption date. If fewer than all the shares of this Series held by any holder are to be redeemed, the notice mailed to such holder shall also specify the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed from such holder.
(d) . The shares of this Series shall not have any voting powers either general or special, except as required by law and except that:
Voting Rights
(1) If the Trust shall fail to pay full cumulative dividends on the shares of this Series or any other of its Preferred Shares for six quarterly dividend payment periods, whether or not consecutive (a ""), the holders of all outstanding Preferred Shares, voting as a single class without regard to series, will be entitled to elect two Trustees until full cumulative dividends for all past dividend payment periods on all Preferred Shares have been paid or declared and funds therefor set apart for payment. Such right to vote separately as a class to elect Trustees shall, when vested, be subject, always, to the same provisions for the vesting of such right to elect Trustees separately as a class in the case of future Dividend Defaults. At any time when such right to elect Trustees separately as a class shall have so vested, the Trust may, and upon the written request of the holders of record of not less than 20% of the total number of Preferred Shares of the Trust then outstanding shall, call a special meeting of shareholders for the election of Trustees. In the case of such a written request, such special meeting shall be held within 90 days after the delivery of such request and, in either case, at the place and upon the notice provided by law and in the Bylaws of the Trust, provided that the Trust shall not be required to call such a special meeting if such request is received less than 120 days before the date fixed for the next ensuing Annual Meeting of Shareholders of the Trust and the holders of all classes of outstanding Preferred Shares are afforded the opportunity to elect such Trustees (or fill any vacancy) at such Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Trustees elected as aforesaid shall
Dividend Default
 
serve until the next Annual Meeting of Shareholders of the Trust or until their respective successors shall be elected and qualified. If, prior to the end of the term of any Trustee elected as aforesaid, a vacancy in the office of such Trustee shall occur during the continuance of a Dividend Default by reason of death, resignation, or disability, such vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired term by the appointment of a new Trustee for the unexpired term of such former Trustee, such appointment to be made by the remaining Trustee elected as aforesaid.
(2) The affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least 66
2/3 
% of the outstanding shares of this Series, voting separately as a class, will be required for any amendment to the Declaration of Trust that will adversely alter or change the powers, preferences, privileges or rights of the shares of this Series, except as set forth below. The affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least 66
2/3 
% of the outstanding shares of this Series and any other series of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity with this Series as to dividends and upon liquidation (including the Parity Preferred Shares), voting as a single class without regard to series, will be required to issue, authorize or increase the authorized amount of any class or series of shares ranking prior to this Series as to dividends or upon liquidation or to issue or authorize any obligation or security convertible into or evidencing a right to purchase any such security, but the Declaration of Trust may be amended to increase the number of authorized Preferred Shares ranking on a parity with or junior to this Series or to create another class of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity with or junior to this Series without the vote of the holders of outstanding shares of this Series.
(e) . The shares of this Series are not convertible into shares of any other class or series of the shares of beneficial interest of this Trust.
Conversion
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Trust has caused these Articles Supplementary to be signed in its name and on its behalf by its Vice Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President and attested to by its Secretary as of May 30, 2007.
 
THE UNDERSIGNED, the Vice Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President of Public Storage, who executed on behalf of the Trust the foregoing Articles Supplementary of which this certificate is made a part, hereby acknowledges in the name and on behalf of said Trust the foregoing Articles Supplementary to be the duly authorized act of said Trust and hereby certifies to the best of his knowledge, information and belief that the matters and facts set forth herein with respect to the authorization and approval thereof are true in all material respects under the penalties of perjury.
 

Exhibit 3.18
PUBLIC STORAGE, a Maryland real estate investment trust (the ""), hereby certifies to the State Department of Assessments and Taxation of Maryland that:
Trust
FIRST: The articles of amendment and restatement of the Trust's declaration of trust (the "") authorize the issuance of 100,000,000 preferred shares of beneficial interest, par value $.01 per share (the "Preferred Shares"), issuable from time to time in one or more series, and authorize the Trust's board of trustees (the "") to classify or reclassify any unissued shares from time to time by setting or changing the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends, qualifications, or terms or conditions of redemption of such unissued shares.
Declaration of Trust
Board of Trustees
SECOND: In accordance with Section 8-203 of the Maryland REIT Law and pursuant to the authority expressly vested in the Board of Trustees by the Declaration of Trust, the Board of Trustees has duly divided and classified 20,700 Preferred Shares of the Trust as 7.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series I ("").
Series I Preferred Shares
THIRD: The following is a description of the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends or distributions, qualifications, and terms and conditions of redemption of the Series I Preferred Shares of the Trust:
(a) .
Dividend Rights
(1) Dividends shall be payable in cash on the shares of this Series when, as and if declared by the Board of Trustees, out of funds legally available therefor: (i) for the period from April 1, 2007 to June 30, 2007, and (ii) for each quarterly dividend period thereafter (each quarterly dividend period thereafter being hereinafter individually referred to as a "" and collectively referred to as ""), which quarterly Dividend Periods shall be in four equal amounts and shall commence on January 1, April 1, July 1 and October 1 in each year (each, a ""), and shall end on and include the day next preceding the next Dividend Period Commencement Date, at a rate per annum equal to 7.250% of the $25,000 per share stated value thereof. Dividends on each share of this Series shall be cumulative from April 1, 2007 and shall be payable, without interest thereon, when, as and if declared by the Board of Trustees, on or before March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 of each year; , that if any such day shall be a Saturday, Sunday, or a day on which banking institutions in the State of New York or the State of California are authorized or obligated by law to close, or a day which is or is declared a national or a New York or California state holiday (any of the foregoing a ""), then the payment date shall be the next succeeding day which is not a Non-Business Day. Each such dividend shall be paid to the holders of record of shares of this Series as they appear on the share register of the Trust on such record date, not more than 45 days nor less than 15 days preceding
Dividend Period
Dividend Periods
Dividend Period Commencement Date
provided
Non-Business Day
the payment date thereof, as shall be fixed by the Board of Trustees. Dividends on account of arrears for any past Dividend Periods may be declared and paid at any time, without reference to any regular dividend payment date, to holders of record on such date, not more than 45 days nor less than 15 days preceding the payment date thereof, as may be fixed by the Board of Trustees. After full cumulative dividends on this Series have been paid or declared and funds therefor set aside for payment, including for the then current Dividend Period, the holders of shares of this Series will not be entitled to any further dividends with respect to that Dividend Period.
(2) Dividends payable on shares of this Series for any period greater or less than a full Dividend Period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.
(3) The Trust shall not declare or pay or set apart for payment any dividends on any series of Preferred Shares ranking, as to dividends, on a parity with or junior to the shares of this Series unless full cumulative dividends have been or contemporaneously are declared and paid, or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof is set apart for payment, on the shares of this Series for all Dividend Periods terminating on or prior to the date of payment of any such dividends on such other series of Preferred Shares. When dividends are not paid in full upon the shares of this Series and any other series of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity therewith as to dividends (including, without limitation, the Trust's 6.125% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series A, 7.125% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series B, 6.600% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series C, 6.180% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series D, 6.750% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series E, 6.450% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series F, 7.000% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series G, 6.950% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series H, 7.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series J, 7.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series K, 6.750% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series L, 6.625% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series M, 6.400% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series NN, 7.500% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series V, 6.500% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series W, 6.450% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series X, 6.850% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series Y, 6.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series Z (all of the foregoing, collectively the ""), all dividends declared upon shares of this Series and any other series of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity therewith as to dividends shall be declared pro rata so that the amount of dividends declared per share on the shares of this Series and such other series of Preferred Shares shall in all cases bear to each other that same ratio that the accumulated dividends per share on the shares of this Series and such other series of Preferred Shares bear to each other. Except as provided in the preceding sentence, unless full cumulative dividends on the shares of this Series have been paid, or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof is set apart for payment, for all past Dividend Periods, no dividends (other than in the Trust's common shares, par value $.10 per share (together with any other shares of beneficial interest of the Trust into which such shares shall be reclassified or changed ("")), or shares of beneficial interest ranking junior to the shares of this Series as to dividends and upon liquidation) shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment nor shall any other distribution be made upon the Common Shares or on any other shares of beneficial interest of the Trust ranking junior to or on a parity with the shares of this Series as to dividends or upon liquidation. Unless full cumulative dividends on the shares of this Series have been paid, or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof is set apart for payment, for all past Dividend Periods, no Common Shares or any other shares of beneficial interest of the Trust ranking junior to or on a
Parity Preferred Shares
Common Shares
 
parity with the shares of this Series as to dividends or upon liquidation shall be redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired for any consideration (or any moneys be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any shares of any such shares of beneficial interest) by the Trust or any subsidiary, except by conversion into or exchange for shares of beneficial interest of the Trust ranking junior to the shares of this Series as to dividends and upon liquidation.
(b) .
Liquidation
In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Trust, the holders of the shares of this Series are entitled to receive out of the assets of the Trust available for distribution to shareholders, before any distribution of assets is made to holders of Common Shares or any other class or series of shares ranking junior to the shares of this Series upon liquidation, liquidating distributions in the amount of $25,000 per share plus all accumulated and unpaid dividends (whether or not earned or declared) for the then current and all past Dividend Periods. If, upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Trust, the amounts payable with respect to the shares of this Series and any other shares of the Trust ranking as to any such distribution on a parity with the shares of this Series are not paid in full, the holders of shares of this Series and of such other shares (including the Parity Preferred Shares) will share ratably in any such distribution of assets of the Trust in proportion to the full respective preferential amounts to which they are entitled. After payment of the full amount of the liquidating distribution to which they are entitled, the holders of shares of this Series will not be entitled to any further participation in any distribution of assets by the Trust.
(1) Written notice of any such liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Trust, stating the payment date or dates when, and the place or places where the amounts distributable in such circumstances shall be payable, shall be given by first class mail, postage pre-paid, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the payment date stated therein, to each record holder of the shares of this Series at the respective addresses of such holders as the same shall appear on the share transfer records of the Trust.
(2) For purposes of liquidation rights, a reorganization, consolidation or merger of the Trust with or into any other entity or entities or a sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Trust shall be deemed not to be a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Trust.
(c) .
Redemption
(1) Except as provided in clause (9) below, the shares of this Series are not redeemable prior to May 3, 2011. On and after such date, the shares of this Series are redeemable at the option of the Trust, by resolution of the Board of Trustees, in whole or in part, from time to time upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' notice, at a cash redemption price of $25,000 per share plus all accumulated and unpaid dividends (whether or not earned or declared) to the date of redemption.
 
(2) If fewer than all the outstanding shares of this Series are to be redeemed, the number of shares to be redeemed will be determined by the Board of Trustees, and such shares shall be redeemed pro rata from the holders of record of such shares in proportion to the number of such shares held by such holders (with adjustments to avoid redemption of fractional shares) or by lot in a manner determined by the Board of Trustees.
(3) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any dividends, including any accumulation, on the shares of this Series are in arrears, no shares of this Series shall be redeemed unless all outstanding shares of this Series are simultaneously redeemed, and the Trust shall not purchase or otherwise acquire, directly or indirectly, any shares of this Series; , , that the foregoing shall not prevent the purchase or acquisition of shares of this Series pursuant to a purchase or exchange offer provided such offer is made on the same terms to all holders of shares of this Series.
provided
however
(4) Immediately prior to any redemption of shares of this Series, the Trust shall pay, in cash, any accumulated and unpaid dividends through the redemption date, unless a redemption date falls after a dividend payment record date and prior to the corresponding dividend payment date, in which case each holder of shares of this Series at the close of business on such dividend payment record date shall be entitled to the dividend payable on such shares on the corresponding dividend payment date notwithstanding the redemption of such shares before such dividend payment date. Except as expressly provided herein above, the Trust shall make no payment or allowance for unpaid dividends, whether or not in arrears, on shares of this Series called for redemption.
(5) Notice of redemption shall be given by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the County of Los Angeles and the City of New York, such publication to be made once a week for two successive weeks, commencing not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for redemption thereof. A similar notice will be mailed by the Trust by first class mail, postage pre-paid, to each record holder of the shares of this Series to be redeemed, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to such redemption date, to the respective addresses of such holders as the same shall appear on the share transfer records of the Trust. Each notice shall state: (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accumulate on such redemption date. If fewer than all the shares of this Series held by any holder are to be redeemed, the notice mailed to such holder shall also specify the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed from such holder.
(6) In order to facilitate the redemption of shares of this Series, the Board of Trustees may fix a record date for the determination of the shares to be redeemed, such record date to be not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for such redemption.
(7) Notice having been given as provided above, from and after the date fixed for the redemption of shares of this Series by the Trust (unless the Trust shall fail to make available the money necessary to effect such redemption), the holders of shares selected for redemption shall cease to be shareholders with respect to such shares and shall have no interest in or claim against the Trust by virtue thereof and shall have no voting or other rights with
 
respect to such shares, except the right to receive the moneys payable upon such redemption from the Trust, less any required tax withholding amount, without interest thereon, upon surrender (and endorsement or assignment of transfer, if required by the Trust and so stated in the notice) of their certificates, and the shares represented thereby shall no longer be deemed to be outstanding. If fewer than all the shares represented by a certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued, without cost to the holder thereof, representing the unredeemed shares. The Trust may, at its option, at any time after a notice of redemption has been given, deposit the redemption price for the shares of this Series designated for redemption and not yet redeemed, plus any accumulated and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for redemption, with the transfer agent or agents for this Series, as a trust fund for the benefit of the holders of the shares of this Series designated for redemption, together with irrevocable instructions and authority to such transfer agent or agents that such funds be delivered upon redemption of such shares and to pay, on and after the date fixed for redemption or prior thereto, the redemption price of the shares to their respective holders upon the surrender of their share certificates. From and after the making of such deposit, the holders of the shares designated for redemption shall cease to be shareholders with respect to such shares and shall have no interest in or claim against the Trust by virtue thereof and shall have no voting or other rights with respect to such shares, except the right to receive from such trust fund the moneys payable upon such redemption, without interest thereon, upon surrender (and endorsement or assignment of transfer, if required by the Trust and so stated in the notice) of their certificates, and the shares represented thereby shall no longer be deemed to be outstanding. Any balance of such moneys remaining unclaimed at the end of the five-year period commencing on the date fixed for redemption shall be repaid to the Trust upon its request expressed in a resolution of its Board of Trustees.
(8) Any shares of this Series that shall at any time have been redeemed shall, after such redemption, have the status of authorized but unissued Preferred Shares, without designation as to series until such shares are once more designated as part of a particular series by the Board of Trustees.
(9) If the Board of Trustees shall, at any time and in good faith, be of the opinion that ownership of securities of the Trust has or may become concentrated to an extent that may prevent the Trust from qualifying as a real estate investment trust under the REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, then the Board of Trustees shall have the power, by lot or other means deemed equitable by them to prevent the transfer of and/or to call for redemption a number of shares of this Series sufficient, in the opinion of the Board of Trustees, to maintain or bring the direct or indirect ownership thereof into conformity with the requirements of such a real estate investment trust under the REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. The redemption price to be paid for shares of this Series so called for redemption, on the date fixed for redemption, shall be (i) the closing sale price on any national securities exchange or trading market on which the shares of this Series are listed, or (ii) the last quoted price as reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotation System or any other United States automated inter-dealer quotation system, on the last business day prior to the redemption date, or if the shares of this Series so called for redemption are not listed on any such exchange, trading market or quotation system, at $25,000 per share of this Series (subject to adjustment in the case of share splits, combinations, share dividends and similar transactions); provided that if interests in shares of this Series are represented by depositary shares, then the
 
redemption price shall be determined in accordance with the foregoing, but with respect to one depositary share, multiplied by the number of depositary shares that together represent an interest in one share of this Series. From and after the date fixed for redemption by the Board of Trustees, the holder of any shares of this Series so called for redemption shall cease to be entitled to any distributions, voting rights and other benefits with respect to such shares of this Series, other than the right to payment of the redemption price determined as aforesaid. "REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code" shall mean Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. In order to exercise the redemption option set forth in this clause (9), with respect to the shares of this Series, the Trust shall give notice of redemption by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the County of Los Angeles and the City of New York, such publication to be made once a week for two successive weeks, commencing not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for redemption. A similar notice will be mailed by the Trust by first class mail, postage pre-paid, to each record holder of the shares of this Series to be redeemed, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to such redemption date, to the respective addresses of such holders as the same shall appear on the share transfer records of the Trust. Each notice shall state: (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accumulate on such redemption date. If fewer than all the shares of this Series held by any holder are to be redeemed, the notice mailed to such holder shall also specify the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed from such holder.
(d) . The shares of this Series shall not have any voting powers either general or special, except as required by law and except that:
Voting Rights
(1) If the Trust shall fail to pay full cumulative dividends on the shares of this Series or any other of its Preferred Shares for six quarterly dividend payment periods, whether or not consecutive (a ""), the holders of all outstanding Preferred Shares, voting as a single class without regard to series, will be entitled to elect two Trustees until full cumulative dividends for all past dividend payment periods on all Preferred Shares have been paid or declared and funds therefor set apart for payment. Such right to vote separately as a class to elect Trustees shall, when vested, be subject, always, to the same provisions for the vesting of such right to elect Trustees separately as a class in the case of future Dividend Defaults. At any time when such right to elect Trustees separately as a class shall have so vested, the Trust may, and upon the written request of the holders of record of not less than 20% of the total number of Preferred Shares of the Trust then outstanding shall, call a special meeting of shareholders for the election of Trustees. In the case of such a written request, such special meeting shall be held within 90 days after the delivery of such request and, in either case, at the place and upon the notice provided by law and in the Bylaws of the Trust, provided that the Trust shall not be required to call such a special meeting if such request is received less than 120 days before the date fixed for the next ensuing Annual Meeting of Shareholders of the Trust and the holders of all classes of outstanding Preferred Shares are afforded the opportunity to elect such Trustees (or fill any vacancy) at such Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Trustees elected as aforesaid shall serve until the next Annual Meeting of Shareholders of the Trust or until their respective successors shall be elected and qualified. If, prior to the end of the term of any Trustee elected as aforesaid, a vacancy in the office of such Trustee shall occur during the continuance of a
Dividend Default
 
Dividend Default by reason of death, resignation, or disability, such vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired term by the appointment of a new Trustee for the unexpired term of such former Trustee, such appointment to be made by the remaining Trustee elected as aforesaid.
(2) The affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least 66
2/3 
% of the outstanding shares of this Series, voting separately as a class, will be required for any amendment to the Declaration of Trust that will adversely alter or change the powers, preferences, privileges or rights of the shares of this Series, except as set forth below. The affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least 66
2/3 
% of the outstanding shares of this Series and any other series of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity with this Series as to dividends and upon liquidation (including the Parity Preferred Shares), voting as a single class without regard to series, will be required to issue, authorize or increase the authorized amount of any class or series of shares ranking prior to this Series as to dividends or upon liquidation or to issue or authorize any obligation or security convertible into or evidencing a right to purchase any such security, but the Declaration of Trust may be amended to increase the number of authorized Preferred Shares ranking on a parity with or junior to this Series or to create another class of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity with or junior to this Series without the vote of the holders of outstanding shares of this Series.
(e) . The shares of this Series are not convertible into shares of any other class or series of the shares of beneficial interest of this Trust.
Conversion
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Trust has caused these Articles Supplementary to be signed in its name and on its behalf by its Vice Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President and attested to by its Secretary as of May 30, 2007.
 
THE UNDERSIGNED, the Vice Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President of Public Storage, who executed on behalf of the Trust the foregoing Articles Supplementary of which this certificate is made a part, hereby acknowledges in the name and on behalf of said Trust the foregoing Articles Supplementary to be the duly authorized act of said Trust and hereby certifies to the best of his knowledge, information and belief that the matters and facts set forth herein with respect to the authorization and approval thereof are true in all material respects under the penalties of perjury.
 

Exhibit 3.19
PUBLIC STORAGE, a Maryland real estate investment trust (the ""), hereby certifies to the State Department of Assessments and Taxation of Maryland that:
Trust
FIRST: The articles of amendment and restatement of the Trust's declaration of trust (the "") authorize the issuance of 100,000,000 preferred shares of beneficial interest, par value $.01 per share (the "Preferred Shares"), issuable from time to time in one or more series, and authorize the Trust's board of trustees (the "") to classify or reclassify any unissued shares from time to time by setting or changing the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends, qualifications, or terms or conditions of redemption of such unissued shares.
Declaration of Trust
Board of Trustees
SECOND: In accordance with Section 8-203 of the Maryland REIT Law and pursuant to the authority expressly vested in the Board of Trustees by the Declaration of Trust, the Board of Trustees has duly divided and classified 18,400 Preferred Shares of the Trust as 7.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series K ("").
Series K Preferred Shares
THIRD: The following is a description of the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends or distributions, qualifications, and terms and conditions of redemption of the Series K Preferred Shares of the Trust:
(a) .
Dividend Rights
(1) Dividends shall be payable in cash on the shares of this Series when, as and if declared by the Board of Trustees, out of funds legally available therefor: (i) for the period from April 1, 2007 to June 30, 2007, and (ii) for each quarterly dividend period thereafter (each quarterly dividend period thereafter being hereinafter individually referred to as a "" and collectively referred to as ""), which quarterly Dividend Periods shall be in four equal amounts and shall commence on January 1, April 1, July 1 and October 1 in each year (each, a ""), and shall end on and include the day next preceding the next Dividend Period Commencement Date, at a rate per annum equal to 7.250% of the $25,000 per share stated value thereof. Dividends on each share of this Series shall be cumulative from April 1, 2007 and shall be payable, without interest thereon, when, as and if declared by the Board of Trustees, on or before March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 of each year; , that if any such day shall be a Saturday, Sunday, or a day on which banking institutions in the State of New York or the State of California are authorized or obligated by law to close, or a day which is or is declared a national or a New York or California state holiday (any of the foregoing a ""), then the payment date shall be the next succeeding day which is not a Non-Business Day. Each such dividend shall be paid to the holders of record of shares of this Series as they appear on the share register of the Trust on such record date, not more than 45 days nor less than 15 days preceding
Dividend Period
Dividend Periods
Dividend Period Commencement Date
provided
Non-Business Day
the payment date thereof, as shall be fixed by the Board of Trustees. Dividends on account of arrears for any past Dividend Periods may be declared and paid at any time, without reference to any regular dividend payment date, to holders of record on such date, not more than 45 days nor less than 15 days preceding the payment date thereof, as may be fixed by the Board of Trustees. After full cumulative dividends on this Series have been paid or declared and funds therefor set aside for payment, including for the then current Dividend Period, the holders of shares of this Series will not be entitled to any further dividends with respect to that Dividend Period.
(2) Dividends payable on shares of this Series for any period greater or less than a full Dividend Period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.
(3) The Trust shall not declare or pay or set apart for payment any dividends on any series of Preferred Shares ranking, as to dividends, on a parity with or junior to the shares of this Series unless full cumulative dividends have been or contemporaneously are declared and paid, or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof is set apart for payment, on the shares of this Series for all Dividend Periods terminating on or prior to the date of payment of any such dividends on such other series of Preferred Shares. When dividends are not paid in full upon the shares of this Series and any other series of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity therewith as to dividends (including, without limitation, the Trust's 6.125% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series A, 7.125% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series B, 6.600% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series C, 6.180% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series D, 6.750% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series E, 6.450% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series F, 7.000% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series G, 6.950% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series H, 7.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series I, 7.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series J, 6.750% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series L, 6.625% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series M, 6.400% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series NN, 7.500% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series V, 6.500% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series W, 6.450% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series X, 6.850% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series Y, 6.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series Z (all of the foregoing, collectively the ""), all dividends declared upon shares of this Series and any other series of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity therewith as to dividends shall be declared pro rata so that the amount of dividends declared per share on the shares of this Series and such other series of Preferred Shares shall in all cases bear to each other that same ratio that the accumulated dividends per share on the shares of this Series and such other series of Preferred Shares bear to each other. Except as provided in the preceding sentence, unless full cumulative dividends on the shares of this Series have been paid, or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof is set apart for payment, for all past Dividend Periods, no dividends (other than in the Trust's common shares, par value $.10 per share (together with any other shares of beneficial interest of the Trust into which such shares shall be reclassified or changed ("")), or shares of beneficial interest ranking junior to the shares of this Series as to dividends and upon liquidation) shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment nor shall any other distribution be made upon the Common Shares or on any other shares of beneficial interest of the Trust ranking junior to or on a parity with the shares of this Series as to dividends or upon liquidation. Unless full cumulative dividends on the shares of this Series have been paid, or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof is set apart for payment, for all past Dividend Periods, no Common Shares or any other shares of beneficial interest of the Trust ranking junior to or on a
Parity Preferred Shares
Common Shares
 
parity with the shares of this Series as to dividends or upon liquidation shall be redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired for any consideration (or any moneys be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any shares of any such shares of beneficial interest) by the Trust or any subsidiary, except by conversion into or exchange for shares of beneficial interest of the Trust ranking junior to the shares of this Series as to dividends and upon liquidation.
(b) .
Liquidation
In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Trust, the holders of the shares of this Series are entitled to receive out of the assets of the Trust available for distribution to shareholders, before any distribution of assets is made to holders of Common Shares or any other class or series of shares ranking junior to the shares of this Series upon liquidation, liquidating distributions in the amount of $25,000 per share plus all accumulated and unpaid dividends (whether or not earned or declared) for the then current and all past Dividend Periods. If, upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Trust, the amounts payable with respect to the shares of this Series and any other shares of the Trust ranking as to any such distribution on a parity with the shares of this Series are not paid in full, the holders of shares of this Series and of such other shares (including the Parity Preferred Shares) will share ratably in any such distribution of assets of the Trust in proportion to the full respective preferential amounts to which they are entitled. After payment of the full amount of the liquidating distribution to which they are entitled, the holders of shares of this Series will not be entitled to any further participation in any distribution of assets by the Trust.
(1) Written notice of any such liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Trust, stating the payment date or dates when, and the place or places where the amounts distributable in such circumstances shall be payable, shall be given by first class mail, postage pre-paid, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the payment date stated therein, to each record holder of the shares of this Series at the respective addresses of such holders as the same shall appear on the share transfer records of the Trust.
(2) For purposes of liquidation rights, a reorganization, consolidation or merger of the Trust with or into any other entity or entities or a sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Trust shall be deemed not to be a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Trust.
(c) .
Redemption
(1) Except as provided in clause (9) below, the shares of this Series are not redeemable prior to August 8, 2011. On and after such date, the shares of this Series are redeemable at the option of the Trust, by resolution of the Board of Trustees, in whole or in part, from time to time upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' notice, at a cash redemption price of $25,000 per share plus all accumulated and unpaid dividends (whether or not earned or declared) to the date of redemption.
 
(2) If fewer than all the outstanding shares of this Series are to be redeemed, the number of shares to be redeemed will be determined by the Board of Trustees, and such shares shall be redeemed pro rata from the holders of record of such shares in proportion to the number of such shares held by such holders (with adjustments to avoid redemption of fractional shares) or by lot in a manner determined by the Board of Trustees.
(3) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any dividends, including any accumulation, on the shares of this Series are in arrears, no shares of this Series shall be redeemed unless all outstanding shares of this Series are simultaneously redeemed, and the Trust shall not purchase or otherwise acquire, directly or indirectly, any shares of this Series; , , that the foregoing shall not prevent the purchase or acquisition of shares of this Series pursuant to a purchase or exchange offer provided such offer is made on the same terms to all holders of shares of this Series.
provided
however
(4) Immediately prior to any redemption of shares of this Series, the Trust shall pay, in cash, any accumulated and unpaid dividends through the redemption date, unless a redemption date falls after a dividend payment record date and prior to the corresponding dividend payment date, in which case each holder of shares of this Series at the close of business on such dividend payment record date shall be entitled to the dividend payable on such shares on the corresponding dividend payment date notwithstanding the redemption of such shares before such dividend payment date. Except as expressly provided herein above, the Trust shall make no payment or allowance for unpaid dividends, whether or not in arrears, on shares of this Series called for redemption.
(5) Notice of redemption shall be given by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the County of Los Angeles and the City of New York, such publication to be made once a week for two successive weeks, commencing not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for redemption thereof. A similar notice will be mailed by the Trust by first class mail, postage pre-paid, to each record holder of the shares of this Series to be redeemed, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to such redemption date, to the respective addresses of such holders as the same shall appear on the share transfer records of the Trust. Each notice shall state: (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accumulate on such redemption date. If fewer than all the shares of this Series held by any holder are to be redeemed, the notice mailed to such holder shall also specify the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed from such holder.
(6) In order to facilitate the redemption of shares of this Series, the Board of Trustees may fix a record date for the determination of the shares to be redeemed, such record date to be not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for such redemption.
(7) Notice having been given as provided above, from and after the date fixed for the redemption of shares of this Series by the Trust (unless the Trust shall fail to make available the money necessary to effect such redemption), the holders of shares selected for redemption shall cease to be shareholders with respect to such shares and shall have no interest in or claim against the Trust by virtue thereof and shall have no voting or other rights with
 
respect to such shares, except the right to receive the moneys payable upon such redemption from the Trust, less any required tax withholding amount, without interest thereon, upon surrender (and endorsement or assignment of transfer, if required by the Trust and so stated in the notice) of their certificates, and the shares represented thereby shall no longer be deemed to be outstanding. If fewer than all the shares represented by a certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued, without cost to the holder thereof, representing the unredeemed shares. The Trust may, at its option, at any time after a notice of redemption has been given, deposit the redemption price for the shares of this Series designated for redemption and not yet redeemed, plus any accumulated and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for redemption, with the transfer agent or agents for this Series, as a trust fund for the benefit of the holders of the shares of this Series designated for redemption, together with irrevocable instructions and authority to such transfer agent or agents that such funds be delivered upon redemption of such shares and to pay, on and after the date fixed for redemption or prior thereto, the redemption price of the shares to their respective holders upon the surrender of their share certificates. From and after the making of such deposit, the holders of the shares designated for redemption shall cease to be shareholders with respect to such shares and shall have no interest in or claim against the Trust by virtue thereof and shall have no voting or other rights with respect to such shares, except the right to receive from such trust fund the moneys payable upon such redemption, without interest thereon, upon surrender (and endorsement or assignment of transfer, if required by the Trust and so stated in the notice) of their certificates, and the shares represented thereby shall no longer be deemed to be outstanding. Any balance of such moneys remaining unclaimed at the end of the five-year period commencing on the date fixed for redemption shall be repaid to the Trust upon its request expressed in a resolution of its Board of Trustees.
(8) Any shares of this Series that shall at any time have been redeemed shall, after such redemption, have the status of authorized but unissued Preferred Shares, without designation as to series until such shares are once more designated as part of a particular series by the Board of Trustees.
(9) If the Board of Trustees shall, at any time and in good faith, be of the opinion that ownership of securities of the Trust has or may become concentrated to an extent that may prevent the Trust from qualifying as a real estate investment trust under the REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, then the Board of Trustees shall have the power, by lot or other means deemed equitable by them to prevent the transfer of and/or to call for redemption a number of shares of this Series sufficient, in the opinion of the Board of Trustees, to maintain or bring the direct or indirect ownership thereof into conformity with the requirements of such a real estate investment trust under the REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. The redemption price to be paid for shares of this Series so called for redemption, on the date fixed for redemption, shall be (i) the closing sale price on any national securities exchange or trading market on which the shares of this Series are listed, or (ii) the last quoted price as reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotation System or any other United States automated inter-dealer quotation system, on the last business day prior to the redemption date, or if the shares of this Series so called for redemption are not listed on any such exchange, trading market or quotation system, at $25,000 per share of this Series (subject to adjustment in the case of share splits, combinations, share dividends and similar transactions); provided that if interests in shares of this Series are represented by depositary shares, then the
 
redemption price shall be determined in accordance with the foregoing, but with respect to one depositary share, multiplied by the number of depositary shares that together represent an interest in one share of this Series. From and after the date fixed for redemption by the Board of Trustees, the holder of any shares of this Series so called for redemption shall cease to be entitled to any distributions, voting rights and other benefits with respect to such shares of this Series, other than the right to payment of the redemption price determined as aforesaid. "REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code" shall mean Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. In order to exercise the redemption option set forth in this clause (9), with respect to the shares of this Series, the Trust shall give notice of redemption by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the County of Los Angeles and the City of New York, such publication to be made once a week for two successive weeks, commencing not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for redemption. A similar notice will be mailed by the Trust by first class mail, postage pre-paid, to each record holder of the shares of this Series to be redeemed, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to such redemption date, to the respective addresses of such holders as the same shall appear on the share transfer records of the Trust. Each notice shall state: (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accumulate on such redemption date. If fewer than all the shares of this Series held by any holder are to be redeemed, the notice mailed to such holder shall also specify the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed from such holder.
(d) . The shares of this Series shall not have any voting powers either general or special, except as required by law and except that:
Voting Rights
(1) If the Trust shall fail to pay full cumulative dividends on the shares of this Series or any other of its Preferred Shares for six quarterly dividend payment periods, whether or not consecutive (a ""), the holders of all outstanding Preferred Shares, voting as a single class without regard to series, will be entitled to elect two Trustees until full cumulative dividends for all past dividend payment periods on all Preferred Shares have been paid or declared and funds therefor set apart for payment. Such right to vote separately as a class to elect Trustees shall, when vested, be subject, always, to the same provisions for the vesting of such right to elect Trustees separately as a class in the case of future Dividend Defaults. At any time when such right to elect Trustees separately as a class shall have so vested, the Trust may, and upon the written request of the holders of record of not less than 20% of the total number of Preferred Shares of the Trust then outstanding shall, call a special meeting of shareholders for the election of Trustees. In the case of such a written request, such special meeting shall be held within 90 days after the delivery of such request and, in either case, at the place and upon the notice provided by law and in the Bylaws of the Trust, provided that the Trust shall not be required to call such a special meeting if such request is received less than 120 days before the date fixed for the next ensuing Annual Meeting of Shareholders of the Trust and the holders of all classes of outstanding Preferred Shares are afforded the opportunity to elect such Trustees (or fill any vacancy) at such Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Trustees elected as aforesaid shall serve until the next Annual Meeting of Shareholders of the Trust or until their respective successors shall be elected and qualified. If, prior to the end of the term of any Trustee elected as aforesaid, a vacancy in the office of such Trustee shall occur during the continuance of a
Dividend Default
 
Dividend Default by reason of death, resignation, or disability, such vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired term by the appointment of a new Trustee for the unexpired term of such former Trustee, such appointment to be made by the remaining Trustee elected as aforesaid.
(2) The affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least 66
2/3 
% of the outstanding shares of this Series, voting separately as a class, will be required for any amendment to the Declaration of Trust that will adversely alter or change the powers, preferences, privileges or rights of the shares of this Series, except as set forth below. The affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least 66
2/3 
% of the outstanding shares of this Series and any other series of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity with this Series as to dividends and upon liquidation (including the Parity Preferred Shares), voting as a single class without regard to series, will be required to issue, authorize or increase the authorized amount of any class or series of shares ranking prior to this Series as to dividends or upon liquidation or to issue or authorize any obligation or security convertible into or evidencing a right to purchase any such security, but the Declaration of Trust may be amended to increase the number of authorized Preferred Shares ranking on a parity with or junior to this Series or to create another class of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity with or junior to this Series without the vote of the holders of outstanding shares of this Series.
(e) . The shares of this Series are not convertible into shares of any other class or series of the shares of beneficial interest of this Trust.
Conversion
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Trust has caused these Articles Supplementary to be signed in its name and on its behalf by its Vice Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President and attested to by its Secretary as of May 30, 2007.
 
THE UNDERSIGNED, the Vice Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President of Public Storage, who executed on behalf of the Trust the foregoing Articles Supplementary of which this certificate is made a part, hereby acknowledges in the name and on behalf of said Trust the foregoing Articles Supplementary to be the duly authorized act of said Trust and hereby certifies to the best of his knowledge, information and belief that the matters and facts set forth herein with respect to the authorization and approval thereof are true in all material respects under the penalties of perjury.
 

Exhibit 3.20
PUBLIC STORAGE, a Maryland real estate investment trust (the ""), hereby certifies to the State Department of Assessments and Taxation of Maryland that:
Trust
FIRST: The articles of amendment and restatement of the Trust's declaration of trust (the "") authorize the issuance of 100,000,000 preferred shares of beneficial interest, par value $.01 per share (the "Preferred Shares"), issuable from time to time in one or more series, and authorize the Trust's board of trustees (the "") to classify or reclassify any unissued shares from time to time by setting or changing the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends, qualifications, or terms or conditions of redemption of such unissued shares.
Declaration of Trust
Board of Trustees
SECOND: In accordance with Section 8-203 of the Maryland REIT Law and pursuant to the authority expressly vested in the Board of Trustees by the Declaration of Trust, the Board of Trustees has duly divided and classified 9,200 Preferred Shares of the Trust as 6.750% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series L ("").
Series L Preferred Shares
THIRD: The following is a description of the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends or distributions, qualifications, and terms and conditions of redemption of the Series L Preferred Shares of the Trust:
(a) .
Dividend Rights
(1) Dividends shall be payable in cash on the shares of this Series when, as and if declared by the Board of Trustees, out of funds legally available therefor: (i) for the period from April 1, 2007 to June 30, 2007, and (ii) for each quarterly dividend period thereafter (each quarterly dividend period thereafter being hereinafter individually referred to as a "" and collectively referred to as ""), which quarterly Dividend Periods shall be in four equal amounts and shall commence on January 1, April 1, July 1 and October 1 in each year (each, a ""), and shall end on and include the day next preceding the next Dividend Period Commencement Date, at a rate per annum equal to 6.750% of the $25,000 per share stated value thereof. Dividends on each share of this Series shall be cumulative from April 1, 2007 and shall be payable, without interest thereon, when, as and if declared by the Board of Trustees, on or before March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 of each year; , that if any such day shall be a Saturday, Sunday, or a day on which banking institutions in the State of New York or the State of California are authorized or obligated by law to close, or a day which is or is declared a national or a New York or California state holiday (any of the foregoing a ""), then the payment date shall be the next succeeding day which is not a Non-Business Day. Each such dividend shall be paid to the holders of record of shares of this Series as they appear on the share register of the Trust on such record date, not more than 45 days nor less than 15 days preceding
Dividend Period
Dividend Periods
Dividend Period Commencement Date
provided
Non-Business Day
the payment date thereof, as shall be fixed by the Board of Trustees. Dividends on account of arrears for any past Dividend Periods may be declared and paid at any time, without reference to any regular dividend payment date, to holders of record on such date, not more than 45 days nor less than 15 days preceding the payment date thereof, as may be fixed by the Board of Trustees. After full cumulative dividends on this Series have been paid or declared and funds therefor set aside for payment, including for the then current Dividend Period, the holders of shares of this Series will not be entitled to any further dividends with respect to that Dividend Period.
(2) Dividends payable on shares of this Series for any period greater or less than a full Dividend Period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.
(3) The Trust shall not declare or pay or set apart for payment any dividends on any series of Preferred Shares ranking, as to dividends, on a parity with or junior to the shares of this Series unless full cumulative dividends have been or contemporaneously are declared and paid, or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof is set apart for payment, on the shares of this Series for all Dividend Periods terminating on or prior to the date of payment of any such dividends on such other series of Preferred Shares. When dividends are not paid in full upon the shares of this Series and any other series of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity therewith as to dividends (including, without limitation, the Trust's 6.125% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series A, 7.125% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series B, 6.600% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series C, 6.180% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series D, 6.750% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series E, 6.450% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series F, 7.000% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series G, 6.950% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series H, 7.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series I, 7.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series J, 7.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series K, 6.625% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series M, 6.400% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series NN, 7.500% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series V, 6.500% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series W, 6.450% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series X, 6.850% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series Y, 6.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series Z (all of the foregoing, collectively the ""), all dividends declared upon shares of this Series and any other series of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity therewith as to dividends shall be declared pro rata so that the amount of dividends declared per share on the shares of this Series and such other series of Preferred Shares shall in all cases bear to each other that same ratio that the accumulated dividends per share on the shares of this Series and such other series of Preferred Shares bear to each other. Except as provided in the preceding sentence, unless full cumulative dividends on the shares of this Series have been paid, or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof is set apart for payment, for all past Dividend Periods, no dividends (other than in the Trust's common shares, par value $.10 per share (together with any other shares of beneficial interest of the Trust into which such shares shall be reclassified or changed ("")), or shares of beneficial interest ranking junior to the shares of this Series as to dividends and upon liquidation) shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment nor shall any other distribution be made upon the Common Shares or on any other shares of beneficial interest of the Trust ranking junior to or on a parity with the shares of this Series as to dividends or upon liquidation. Unless full cumulative dividends on the shares of this Series have been paid, or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof is set apart for payment, for all past Dividend Periods, no Common Shares or any other shares of beneficial interest of the Trust ranking junior to or on a
Parity Preferred Shares
Common Shares
 
parity with the shares of this Series as to dividends or upon liquidation shall be redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired for any consideration (or any moneys be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any shares of any such shares of beneficial interest) by the Trust or any subsidiary, except by conversion into or exchange for shares of beneficial interest of the Trust ranking junior to the shares of this Series as to dividends and upon liquidation.
(b) .
Liquidation
In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Trust, the holders of the shares of this Series are entitled to receive out of the assets of the Trust available for distribution to shareholders, before any distribution of assets is made to holders of Common Shares or any other class or series of shares ranking junior to the shares of this Series upon liquidation, liquidating distributions in the amount of $25,000 per share plus all accumulated and unpaid dividends (whether or not earned or declared) for the then current and all past Dividend Periods. If, upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Trust, the amounts payable with respect to the shares of this Series and any other shares of the Trust ranking as to any such distribution on a parity with the shares of this Series are not paid in full, the holders of shares of this Series and of such other shares (including the Parity Preferred Shares) will share ratably in any such distribution of assets of the Trust in proportion to the full respective preferential amounts to which they are entitled. After payment of the full amount of the liquidating distribution to which they are entitled, the holders of shares of this Series will not be entitled to any further participation in any distribution of assets by the Trust.
(1) Written notice of any such liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Trust, stating the payment date or dates when, and the place or places where the amounts distributable in such circumstances shall be payable, shall be given by first class mail, postage pre-paid, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the payment date stated therein, to each record holder of the shares of this Series at the respective addresses of such holders as the same shall appear on the share transfer records of the Trust.
(2) For purposes of liquidation rights, a reorganization, consolidation or merger of the Trust with or into any other entity or entities or a sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Trust shall be deemed not to be a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Trust.
(c) .
Redemption
(1) Except as provided in clause (9) below, the shares of this Series are not redeemable prior to October 20, 2011. On and after such date, the shares of this Series are redeemable at the option of the Trust, by resolution of the Board of Trustees, in whole or in part, from time to time upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' notice, at a cash redemption price of $25,000 per share plus all accumulated and unpaid dividends (whether or not earned or declared) to the date of redemption.
 
(2) If fewer than all the outstanding shares of this Series are to be redeemed, the number of shares to be redeemed will be determined by the Board of Trustees, and such shares shall be redeemed pro rata from the holders of record of such shares in proportion to the number of such shares held by such holders (with adjustments to avoid redemption of fractional shares) or by lot in a manner determined by the Board of Trustees.
(3) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any dividends, including any accumulation, on the shares of this Series are in arrears, no shares of this Series shall be redeemed unless all outstanding shares of this Series are simultaneously redeemed, and the Trust shall not purchase or otherwise acquire, directly or indirectly, any shares of this Series; , , that the foregoing shall not prevent the purchase or acquisition of shares of this Series pursuant to a purchase or exchange offer provided such offer is made on the same terms to all holders of shares of this Series.
provided
however
(4) Immediately prior to any redemption of shares of this Series, the Trust shall pay, in cash, any accumulated and unpaid dividends through the redemption date, unless a redemption date falls after a dividend payment record date and prior to the corresponding dividend payment date, in which case each holder of shares of this Series at the close of business on such dividend payment record date shall be entitled to the dividend payable on such shares on the corresponding dividend payment date notwithstanding the redemption of such shares before such dividend payment date. Except as expressly provided herein above, the Trust shall make no payment or allowance for unpaid dividends, whether or not in arrears, on shares of this Series called for redemption.
(5) Notice of redemption shall be given by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the County of Los Angeles and the City of New York, such publication to be made once a week for two successive weeks, commencing not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for redemption thereof. A similar notice will be mailed by the Trust by first class mail, postage pre-paid, to each record holder of the shares of this Series to be redeemed, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to such redemption date, to the respective addresses of such holders as the same shall appear on the share transfer records of the Trust. Each notice shall state: (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accumulate on such redemption date. If fewer than all the shares of this Series held by any holder are to be redeemed, the notice mailed to such holder shall also specify the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed from such holder.
(6) In order to facilitate the redemption of shares of this Series, the Board of Trustees may fix a record date for the determination of the shares to be redeemed, such record date to be not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for such redemption.
(7) Notice having been given as provided above, from and after the date fixed for the redemption of shares of this Series by the Trust (unless the Trust shall fail to make available the money necessary to effect such redemption), the holders of shares selected for redemption shall cease to be shareholders with respect to such shares and shall have no interest in or claim against the Trust by virtue thereof and shall have no voting or other rights with
 
respect to such shares, except the right to receive the moneys payable upon such redemption from the Trust, less any required tax withholding amount, without interest thereon, upon surrender (and endorsement or assignment of transfer, if required by the Trust and so stated in the notice) of their certificates, and the shares represented thereby shall no longer be deemed to be outstanding. If fewer than all the shares represented by a certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued, without cost to the holder thereof, representing the unredeemed shares. The Trust may, at its option, at any time after a notice of redemption has been given, deposit the redemption price for the shares of this Series designated for redemption and not yet redeemed, plus any accumulated and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for redemption, with the transfer agent or agents for this Series, as a trust fund for the benefit of the holders of the shares of this Series designated for redemption, together with irrevocable instructions and authority to such transfer agent or agents that such funds be delivered upon redemption of such shares and to pay, on and after the date fixed for redemption or prior thereto, the redemption price of the shares to their respective holders upon the surrender of their share certificates. From and after the making of such deposit, the holders of the shares designated for redemption shall cease to be shareholders with respect to such shares and shall have no interest in or claim against the Trust by virtue thereof and shall have no voting or other rights with respect to such shares, except the right to receive from such trust fund the moneys payable upon such redemption, without interest thereon, upon surrender (and endorsement or assignment of transfer, if required by the Trust and so stated in the notice) of their certificates, and the shares represented thereby shall no longer be deemed to be outstanding. Any balance of such moneys remaining unclaimed at the end of the five-year period commencing on the date fixed for redemption shall be repaid to the Trust upon its request expressed in a resolution of its Board of Trustees.
(8) Any shares of this Series that shall at any time have been redeemed shall, after such redemption, have the status of authorized but unissued Preferred Shares, without designation as to series until such shares are once more designated as part of a particular series by the Board of Trustees.
(9) If the Board of Trustees shall, at any time and in good faith, be of the opinion that ownership of securities of the Trust has or may become concentrated to an extent that may prevent the Trust from qualifying as a real estate investment trust under the REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, then the Board of Trustees shall have the power, by lot or other means deemed equitable by them to prevent the transfer of and/or to call for redemption a number of shares of this Series sufficient, in the opinion of the Board of Trustees, to maintain or bring the direct or indirect ownership thereof into conformity with the requirements of such a real estate investment trust under the REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. The redemption price to be paid for shares of this Series so called for redemption, on the date fixed for redemption, shall be (i) the closing sale price on any national securities exchange or trading market on which the shares of this Series are listed, or (ii) the last quoted price as reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotation System or any other United States automated inter-dealer quotation system, on the last business day prior to the redemption date, or if the shares of this Series so called for redemption are not listed on any such exchange, trading market or quotation system, at $25,000 per share of this Series (subject to adjustment in the case of share splits, combinations, share dividends and similar transactions); provided that if interests in shares of this Series are represented by depositary shares, then the
 
redemption price shall be determined in accordance with the foregoing, but with respect to one depositary share, multiplied by the number of depositary shares that together represent an interest in one share of this Series. From and after the date fixed for redemption by the Board of Trustees, the holder of any shares of this Series so called for redemption shall cease to be entitled to any distributions, voting rights and other benefits with respect to such shares of this Series, other than the right to payment of the redemption price determined as aforesaid. "REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code" shall mean Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. In order to exercise the redemption option set forth in this clause (9), with respect to the shares of this Series, the Trust shall give notice of redemption by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the County of Los Angeles and the City of New York, such publication to be made once a week for two successive weeks, commencing not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for redemption. A similar notice will be mailed by the Trust by first class mail, postage pre-paid, to each record holder of the shares of this Series to be redeemed, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to such redemption date, to the respective addresses of such holders as the same shall appear on the share transfer records of the Trust. Each notice shall state: (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accumulate on such redemption date. If fewer than all the shares of this Series held by any holder are to be redeemed, the notice mailed to such holder shall also specify the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed from such holder.
(d) . The shares of this Series shall not have any voting powers either general or special, except as required by law and except that:
Voting Rights
(1) If the Trust shall fail to pay full cumulative dividends on the shares of this Series or any other of its Preferred Shares for six quarterly dividend payment periods, whether or not consecutive (a ""), the holders of all outstanding Preferred Shares, voting as a single class without regard to series, will be entitled to elect two Trustees until full cumulative dividends for all past dividend payment periods on all Preferred Shares have been paid or declared and funds therefor set apart for payment. Such right to vote separately as a class to elect Trustees shall, when vested, be subject, always, to the same provisions for the vesting of such right to elect Trustees separately as a class in the case of future Dividend Defaults. At any time when such right to elect Trustees separately as a class shall have so vested, the Trust may, and upon the written request of the holders of record of not less than 20% of the total number of Preferred Shares of the Trust then outstanding shall, call a special meeting of shareholders for the election of Trustees. In the case of such a written request, such special meeting shall be held within 90 days after the delivery of such request and, in either case, at the place and upon the notice provided by law and in the Bylaws of the Trust, provided that the Trust shall not be required to call such a special meeting if such request is received less than 120 days before the date fixed for the next ensuing Annual Meeting of Shareholders of the Trust and the holders of all classes of outstanding Preferred Shares are afforded the opportunity to elect such Trustees (or fill any vacancy) at such Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Trustees elected as aforesaid shall serve until the next Annual Meeting of Shareholders of the Trust or until their respective successors shall be elected and qualified. If, prior to the end of the term of any Trustee elected as aforesaid, a vacancy in the office of such Trustee shall occur during the continuance of a
Dividend Default
 
Dividend Default by reason of death, resignation, or disability, such vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired term by the appointment of a new Trustee for the unexpired term of such former Trustee, such appointment to be made by the remaining Trustee elected as aforesaid.
(2) The affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least 66
2/3 
% of the outstanding shares of this Series, voting separately as a class, will be required for any amendment to the Declaration of Trust that will adversely alter or change the powers, preferences, privileges or rights of the shares of this Series, except as set forth below. The affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least 66
2/3 
% of the outstanding shares of this Series and any other series of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity with this Series as to dividends and upon liquidation (including the Parity Preferred Shares), voting as a single class without regard to series, will be required to issue, authorize or increase the authorized amount of any class or series of shares ranking prior to this Series as to dividends or upon liquidation or to issue or authorize any obligation or security convertible into or evidencing a right to purchase any such security, but the Declaration of Trust may be amended to increase the number of authorized Preferred Shares ranking on a parity with or junior to this Series or to create another class of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity with or junior to this Series without the vote of the holders of outstanding shares of this Series.
(e) . The shares of this Series are not convertible into shares of any other class or series of the shares of beneficial interest of this Trust.
Conversion
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Trust has caused these Articles Supplementary to be signed in its name and on its behalf by its Vice Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President and attested to by its Secretary as of May 30, 2007.
 
THE UNDERSIGNED, the Vice Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President of Public Storage, who executed on behalf of the Trust the foregoing Articles Supplementary of which this certificate is made a part, hereby acknowledges in the name and on behalf of said Trust the foregoing Articles Supplementary to be the duly authorized act of said Trust and hereby certifies to the best of his knowledge, information and belief that the matters and facts set forth herein with respect to the authorization and approval thereof are true in all material respects under the penalties of perjury.
 

Exhibit 3.21
PUBLIC STORAGE, a Maryland real estate investment trust (the ""), hereby certifies to the State Department of Assessments and Taxation of Maryland that:
Trust
FIRST: The articles of amendment and restatement of the Trust's declaration of trust (the "") authorize the issuance of 100,000,000 preferred shares of beneficial interest, par value $.01 per share (the "Preferred Shares"), issuable from time to time in one or more series, and authorize the Trust's board of trustees (the "") to classify or reclassify any unissued shares from time to time by setting or changing the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends, qualifications, or terms or conditions of redemption of such unissued shares.
Declaration of Trust
Board of Trustees
SECOND: In accordance with Section 8-203 of the Maryland REIT Law and pursuant to the authority expressly vested in the Board of Trustees by the Declaration of Trust, the Board of Trustees has duly divided and classified 20,000 Preferred Shares of the Trust as 6.625% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series M ("").
Series M Preferred Shares
THIRD: The following is a description of the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends or distributions, qualifications, and terms and conditions of redemption of the Series M Preferred Shares of the Trust:
(a) .
Dividend Rights
(1) Dividends shall be payable in cash on the shares of this Series when, as and if declared by the Board of Trustees, out of funds legally available therefor: (i) for the period from April 1, 2007 to June 30, 2007, and (ii) for each quarterly dividend period thereafter (each quarterly dividend period thereafter being hereinafter individually referred to as a "" and collectively referred to as ""), which quarterly Dividend Periods shall be in four equal amounts and shall commence on January 1, April 1, July 1 and October 1 in each year (each, a ""), and shall end on and include the day next preceding the next Dividend Period Commencement Date, at a rate per annum equal to 6.625% of the $25,000 per share stated value thereof. Dividends on each share of this Series shall be cumulative from April 1, 2007 and shall be payable, without interest thereon, when, as and if declared by the Board of Trustees, on or before March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 of each year; , that if any such day shall be a Saturday, Sunday, or a day on which banking institutions in the State of New York or the State of California are authorized or obligated by law to close, or a day which is or is declared a national or a New York or California state holiday (any of the foregoing a ""), then the payment date shall be the next succeeding day which is not a Non-Business Day. Each such dividend shall be paid to the holders of record of shares of this Series as they appear on the share register of the Trust on such record date, not more than 45 days nor less than 15 days preceding
Dividend Period
Dividend Periods
Dividend Period Commencement Date
provided
Non-Business Day
the payment date thereof, as shall be fixed by the Board of Trustees. Dividends on account of arrears for any past Dividend Periods may be declared and paid at any time, without reference to any regular dividend payment date, to holders of record on such date, not more than 45 days nor less than 15 days preceding the payment date thereof, as may be fixed by the Board of Trustees. After full cumulative dividends on this Series have been paid or declared and funds therefor set aside for payment, including for the then current Dividend Period, the holders of shares of this Series will not be entitled to any further dividends with respect to that Dividend Period.
(2) Dividends payable on shares of this Series for any period greater or less than a full Dividend Period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.
(3) The Trust shall not declare or pay or set apart for payment any dividends on any series of Preferred Shares ranking, as to dividends, on a parity with or junior to the shares of this Series unless full cumulative dividends have been or contemporaneously are declared and paid, or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof is set apart for payment, on the shares of this Series for all Dividend Periods terminating on or prior to the date of payment of any such dividends on such other series of Preferred Shares. When dividends are not paid in full upon the shares of this Series and any other series of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity therewith as to dividends (including, without limitation, the Trust's 6.125% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series A, 7.125% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series B, 6.600% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series C, 6.180% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series D, 6.750% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series E, 6.450% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series F, 7.000% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series G, 6.950% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series H, 7.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series I, 7.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series J, 7.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series K, 6.750% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series L, 6.400% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series NN, 7.500% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series V, 6.500% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series W, 6.450% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series X, 6.850% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series Y, 6.250% Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series Z (all of the foregoing, collectively the ""), all dividends declared upon shares of this Series and any other series of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity therewith as to dividends shall be declared pro rata so that the amount of dividends declared per share on the shares of this Series and such other series of Preferred Shares shall in all cases bear to each other that same ratio that the accumulated dividends per share on the shares of this Series and such other series of Preferred Shares bear to each other. Except as provided in the preceding sentence, unless full cumulative dividends on the shares of this Series have been paid, or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof is set apart for payment, for all past Dividend Periods, no dividends (other than in the Trust's common shares, par value $.10 per share (together with any other shares of beneficial interest of the Trust into which such shares shall be reclassified or changed ("")), or shares of beneficial interest ranking junior to the shares of this Series as to dividends and upon liquidation) shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment nor shall any other distribution be made upon the Common Shares or on any other shares of beneficial interest of the Trust ranking junior to or on a parity with the shares of this Series as to dividends or upon liquidation. Unless full cumulative dividends on the shares of this Series have been paid, or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof is set apart for payment, for all past Dividend Periods, no Common Shares or any other shares of beneficial interest of the Trust ranking junior to or on a
Parity Preferred Shares
Common Shares
 
parity with the shares of this Series as to dividends or upon liquidation shall be redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired for any consideration (or any moneys be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any shares of any such shares of beneficial interest) by the Trust or any subsidiary, except by conversion into or exchange for shares of beneficial interest of the Trust ranking junior to the shares of this Series as to dividends and upon liquidation.
(b) .
Liquidation
In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Trust, the holders of the shares of this Series are entitled to receive out of the assets of the Trust available for distribution to shareholders, before any distribution of assets is made to holders of Common Shares or any other class or series of shares ranking junior to the shares of this Series upon liquidation, liquidating distributions in the amount of $25,000 per share plus all accumulated and unpaid dividends (whether or not earned or declared) for the then current and all past Dividend Periods. If, upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Trust, the amounts payable with respect to the shares of this Series and any other shares of the Trust ranking as to any such distribution on a parity with the shares of this Series are not paid in full, the holders of shares of this Series and of such other shares (including the Parity Preferred Shares) will share ratably in any such distribution of assets of the Trust in proportion to the full respective preferential amounts to which they are entitled. After payment of the full amount of the liquidating distribution to which they are entitled, the holders of shares of this Series will not be entitled to any further participation in any distribution of assets by the Trust.
(1) Written notice of any such liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Trust, stating the payment date or dates when, and the place or places where the amounts distributable in such circumstances shall be payable, shall be given by first class mail, postage pre-paid, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the payment date stated therein, to each record holder of the shares of this Series at the respective addresses of such holders as the same shall appear on the share transfer records of the Trust.
(2) For purposes of liquidation rights, a reorganization, consolidation or merger of the Trust with or into any other entity or entities or a sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Trust shall be deemed not to be a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Trust.
(c) .
Redemption
(1) Except as provided in clause (9) below, the shares of this Series are not redeemable prior to January 9, 2012. On and after such date, the shares of this Series are redeemable at the option of the Trust, by resolution of the Board of Trustees, in whole or in part, from time to time upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' notice, at a cash redemption price of $25,000 per share plus all accumulated and unpaid dividends (whether or not earned or declared) to the date of redemption.
 
(2) If fewer than all the outstanding shares of this Series are to be redeemed, the number of shares to be redeemed will be determined by the Board of Trustees, and such shares shall be redeemed pro rata from the holders of record of such shares in proportion to the number of such shares held by such holders (with adjustments to avoid redemption of fractional shares) or by lot in a manner determined by the Board of Trustees.
(3) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any dividends, including any accumulation, on the shares of this Series are in arrears, no shares of this Series shall be redeemed unless all outstanding shares of this Series are simultaneously redeemed, and the Trust shall not purchase or otherwise acquire, directly or indirectly, any shares of this Series; , , that the foregoing shall not prevent the purchase or acquisition of shares of this Series pursuant to a purchase or exchange offer provided such offer is made on the same terms to all holders of shares of this Series.
provided
however
(4) Immediately prior to any redemption of shares of this Series, the Trust shall pay, in cash, any accumulated and unpaid dividends through the redemption date, unless a redemption date falls after a dividend payment record date and prior to the corresponding dividend payment date, in which case each holder of shares of this Series at the close of business on such dividend payment record date shall be entitled to the dividend payable on such shares on the corresponding dividend payment date notwithstanding the redemption of such shares before such dividend payment date. Except as expressly provided herein above, the Trust shall make no payment or allowance for unpaid dividends, whether or not in arrears, on shares of this Series called for redemption.
(5) Notice of redemption shall be given by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the County of Los Angeles and the City of New York, such publication to be made once a week for two successive weeks, commencing not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for redemption thereof. A similar notice will be mailed by the Trust by first class mail, postage pre-paid, to each record holder of the shares of this Series to be redeemed, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to such redemption date, to the respective addresses of such holders as the same shall appear on the share transfer records of the Trust. Each notice shall state: (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accumulate on such redemption date. If fewer than all the shares of this Series held by any holder are to be redeemed, the notice mailed to such holder shall also specify the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed from such holder.
(6) In order to facilitate the redemption of shares of this Series, the Board of Trustees may fix a record date for the determination of the shares to be redeemed, such record date to be not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for such redemption.
(7) Notice having been given as provided above, from and after the date fixed for the redemption of shares of this Series by the Trust (unless the Trust shall fail to make available the money necessary to effect such redemption), the holders of shares selected for redemption shall cease to be shareholders with respect to such shares and shall have no interest in or claim against the Trust by virtue thereof and shall have no voting or other rights with
 
respect to such shares, except the right to receive the moneys payable upon such redemption from the Trust, less any required tax withholding amount, without interest thereon, upon surrender (and endorsement or assignment of transfer, if required by the Trust and so stated in the notice) of their certificates, and the shares represented thereby shall no longer be deemed to be outstanding. If fewer than all the shares represented by a certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued, without cost to the holder thereof, representing the unredeemed shares. The Trust may, at its option, at any time after a notice of redemption has been given, deposit the redemption price for the shares of this Series designated for redemption and not yet redeemed, plus any accumulated and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for redemption, with the transfer agent or agents for this Series, as a trust fund for the benefit of the holders of the shares of this Series designated for redemption, together with irrevocable instructions and authority to such transfer agent or agents that such funds be delivered upon redemption of such shares and to pay, on and after the date fixed for redemption or prior thereto, the redemption price of the shares to their respective holders upon the surrender of their share certificates. From and after the making of such deposit, the holders of the shares designated for redemption shall cease to be shareholders with respect to such shares and shall have no interest in or claim against the Trust by virtue thereof and shall have no voting or other rights with respect to such shares, except the right to receive from such trust fund the moneys payable upon such redemption, without interest thereon, upon surrender (and endorsement or assignment of transfer, if required by the Trust and so stated in the notice) of their certificates, and the shares represented thereby shall no longer be deemed to be outstanding. Any balance of such moneys remaining unclaimed at the end of the five-year period commencing on the date fixed for redemption shall be repaid to the Trust upon its request expressed in a resolution of its Board of Trustees.
(8) Any shares of this Series that shall at any time have been redeemed shall, after such redemption, have the status of authorized but unissued Preferred Shares, without designation as to series until such shares are once more designated as part of a particular series by the Board of Trustees.
(9) If the Board of Trustees shall, at any time and in good faith, be of the opinion that ownership of securities of the Trust has or may become concentrated to an extent that may prevent the Trust from qualifying as a real estate investment trust under the REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, then the Board of Trustees shall have the power, by lot or other means deemed equitable by them to prevent the transfer of and/or to call for redemption a number of shares of this Series sufficient, in the opinion of the Board of Trustees, to maintain or bring the direct or indirect ownership thereof into conformity with the requirements of such a real estate investment trust under the REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. The redemption price to be paid for shares of this Series so called for redemption, on the date fixed for redemption, shall be (i) the closing sale price on any national securities exchange or trading market on which the shares of this Series are listed, or (ii) the last quoted price as reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotation System or any other United States automated inter-dealer quotation system, on the last business day prior to the redemption date, or if the shares of this Series so called for redemption are not listed on any such exchange, trading market or quotation system, at $25,000 per share of this Series (subject to adjustment in the case of share splits, combinations, share dividends and similar transactions); provided that if interests in shares of this Series are represented by depositary shares, then the
 
redemption price shall be determined in accordance with the foregoing, but with respect to one depositary share, multiplied by the number of depositary shares that together represent an interest in one share of this Series. From and after the date fixed for redemption by the Board of Trustees, the holder of any shares of this Series so called for redemption shall cease to be entitled to any distributions, voting rights and other benefits with respect to such shares of this Series, other than the right to payment of the redemption price determined as aforesaid. "REIT Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code" shall mean Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. In order to exercise the redemption option set forth in this clause (9), with respect to the shares of this Series, the Trust shall give notice of redemption by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the County of Los Angeles and the City of New York, such publication to be made once a week for two successive weeks, commencing not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for redemption. A similar notice will be mailed by the Trust by first class mail, postage pre-paid, to each record holder of the shares of this Series to be redeemed, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to such redemption date, to the respective addresses of such holders as the same shall appear on the share transfer records of the Trust. Each notice shall state: (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accumulate on such redemption date. If fewer than all the shares of this Series held by any holder are to be redeemed, the notice mailed to such holder shall also specify the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed from such holder.
(d) . The shares of this Series shall not have any voting powers either general or special, except as required by law and except that:
Voting Rights
(1) If the Trust shall fail to pay full cumulative dividends on the shares of this Series or any other of its Preferred Shares for six quarterly dividend payment periods, whether or not consecutive (a ""), the holders of all outstanding Preferred Shares, voting as a single class without regard to series, will be entitled to elect two Trustees until full cumulative dividends for all past dividend payment periods on all Preferred Shares have been paid or declared and funds therefor set apart for payment. Such right to vote separately as a class to elect Trustees shall, when vested, be subject, always, to the same provisions for the vesting of such right to elect Trustees separately as a class in the case of future Dividend Defaults. At any time when such right to elect Trustees separately as a class shall have so vested, the Trust may, and upon the written request of the holders of record of not less than 20% of the total number of Preferred Shares of the Trust then outstanding shall, call a special meeting of shareholders for the election of Trustees. In the case of such a written request, such special meeting shall be held within 90 days after the delivery of such request and, in either case, at the place and upon the notice provided by law and in the Bylaws of the Trust, provided that the Trust shall not be required to call such a special meeting if such request is received less than 120 days before the date fixed for the next ensuing Annual Meeting of Shareholders of the Trust and the holders of all classes of outstanding Preferred Shares are afforded the opportunity to elect such Trustees (or fill any vacancy) at such Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Trustees elected as aforesaid shall serve until the next Annual Meeting of Shareholders of the Trust or until their respective successors shall be elected and qualified. If, prior to the end of the term of any Trustee elected as aforesaid, a vacancy in the office of such Trustee shall occur during the continuance of a
Dividend Default
 
Dividend Default by reason of death, resignation, or disability, such vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired term by the appointment of a new Trustee for the unexpired term of such former Trustee, such appointment to be made by the remaining Trustee elected as aforesaid.
(2) The affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least 66
2/3 
% of the outstanding shares of this Series, voting separately as a class, will be required for any amendment to the Declaration of Trust that will adversely alter or change the powers, preferences, privileges or rights of the shares of this Series, except as set forth below. The affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least 66
2/3 
% of the outstanding shares of this Series and any other series of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity with this Series as to dividends and upon liquidation (including the Parity Preferred Shares), voting as a single class without regard to series, will be required to issue, authorize or increase the authorized amount of any class or series of shares ranking prior to this Series as to dividends or upon liquidation or to issue or authorize any obligation or security convertible into or evidencing a right to purchase any such security, but the Declaration of Trust may be amended to increase the number of authorized Preferred Shares ranking on a parity with or junior to this Series or to create another class of Preferred Shares ranking on a parity with or junior to this Series without the vote of the holders of outstanding shares of this Series.
(e) . The shares of this Series are not convertible into shares of any other class or series of the shares of beneficial interest of this Trust.
Conversion
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Trust has caused these Articles Supplementary to be signed in its name and on its behalf by its Vice Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President and attested to by its Secretary as of May 30, 2007.
 
THE UNDERSIGNED, the Vice Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President of Public Storage, who executed on behalf of the Trust the foregoing Articles Supplementary of which this certificate is made a part, hereby acknowledges in the name and on behalf of said Trust the foregoing Articles Supplementary to be the duly authorized act of said Trust and hereby certifies to the best of his knowledge, information and belief that the matters and facts set forth herein with respect to the authorization and approval thereof are true in all material respects under the penalties of perjury.
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MASTER DEPOSIT AGREEMENT (this "Agreement"), dated as of May 31, 2007, among PUBLIC STORAGE, a Maryland real estate investment trust (the "Company"), Computershare Shareholder Services, Inc., a Delaware corporation and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Computershare Trust Company, N. A., a national banking association (collectively, the "Depositary" or individually "CSS" and the "Trust Company" respectively), and the holders from time to time of the Receipts described herein.
WHEREAS, Public Storage, Inc., a California corporation (the "Predecessor"), and the Depositary are party to certain Deposit Agreements currently in effect as of the date of this Agreement, as set forth on Schedule A attached hereto (the "Existing Agreements"), relating to the deposit of certain shares of the Predecessor's capital stock with the Depositary and the issuance thereunder of receipts evidencing depositary shares in respect of the shares of capital stock so deposited;
WHEREAS, the stockholders of the Predecessor have approved an agreement and plan of merger whereby the Predecessor will merge with and into the Company, with the Company surviving (such transaction, the "Reorganization");
WHEREAS, at the effective time of the Reorganization, the outstanding shares of the Predecessor's capital stock and the outstanding depositary shares in respect thereof each will automatically be exchanged, on a one-for-one basis, for shares of beneficial interest, and depositary shares representing the same, as applicable, in the Company;
WHEREAS, in connection with such Reorganization, the parties wish to amend, restate and consolidate the Existing Agreements into this Agreement;
WHEREAS, the parties also desire to provide, as hereinafter set forth in this Agreement, for the deposit of shares of certain classes or series of shares of beneficial interest in the Company, as set forth from time to time in the future on Schedule B attached hereto with the Depositary for the purposes set forth in this Agreement and for the issuance hereunder of Receipts evidencing Depositary Shares in respect of the Shares so deposited; and
WHEREAS, the Receipts are to be substantially in the form of Exhibit A annexed hereto, with appropriate insertions, modifications and omissions, as hereinafter provided in this Deposit Agreement;
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the promises contained herein, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
 
The following definitions shall, for all purposes, unless otherwise indicated, apply to the respective terms used in this Agreement:
"Certificate" shall mean the Articles Supplementary filed with the State Department of Assessments and Taxation of the State of Maryland establishing the Shares as a class or series of shares of beneficial interest in the Company.
"Depositary" shall mean the Depositary as defined above and any successor as Depositary hereunder.
"Depositary Shares" shall mean Depositary Shares, each representing 1/1,000 of a Share and evidenced by a Receipt.
"Depositary's Agent" shall mean an agent appointed by the Depositary pursuant to Section 5.1 and shall include the Registrar if such Registrar is not the Depositary.
"Depositary's Office" shall mean the principal office of the Depositary at which at any particular time its depositary receipt business shall be administered.
"Receipt" shall mean one of the Depositary Receipts, which, unless issued in book-entry or other electronic form shall be substantially in the form set forth as Exhibit A hereto, issued hereunder, whether in definitive or temporary form and evidencing the number of Depositary Shares held of record by the record holder of such Depositary Shares.
"Record holder" or "holder" as applied to a Receipt shall mean the person in whose name a Receipt is registered on the books of the Depositary maintained for such purpose.
"Registrar" shall mean the Depositary or such other bank or trust company which shall be appointed to register ownership and transfers of Receipts as herein provided.
"Securities Act" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
"Share" or "Shares" shall mean a share or shares of a class or series of shares of beneficial interest in the Company deposited with the Depositary hereunder, as listed on the attached Schedule B, as the same may be amended, modified or supplemented from time to time in accordance with the terms hereof.
 
SECTION 2.1 . Unless issued in book-entry or other electronic form, definitive Receipts shall be engraved or printed or lithographed on steel-engraved borders, with appropriate insertions, modifications and omissions, as hereinafter provided, if and to the extent required by any securities exchange on which the Receipts are listed. Pending the preparation of definitive Receipts or if definitive Receipts are not required by any securities exchange on which the Receipts are listed, the Depositary, upon the written order of the Company or any holder of Shares, as the case may be, delivered in compliance with Section 2.2, shall execute and deliver temporary Receipts which are printed, lithographed, typewritten, mimeographed or otherwise substantially of the tenor of the definitive Receipts in lieu of which they are issued and with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as the persons executing such Receipts may determine, as evidenced by their execution of such Receipts. If temporary Receipts are issued, the Company and the Depositary will cause definitive Receipts to be prepared without unreasonable delay. After the preparation of definitive Receipts, the temporary Receipts shall be exchangeable for definitive Receipts upon surrender of the temporary Receipts at the Depositary's Office or at such other place or places as the Depositary shall determine, without charge to the holder. Upon surrender for cancellation of any one or more temporary Receipts, the Depositary shall execute and deliver in exchange therefor definitive Receipts representing the same number of Depositary Shares as represented by the surrendered temporary Receipt or Receipts. Such exchange shall be made at the Company's expense and without any charge to the holder therefor. Until so exchanged, the temporary Receipts shall in all respects be entitled to the same benefits under this Agreement, and with respect to the Shares, as definitive Receipts.
Form And Transfer Of Receipts
Receipts shall be executed by the Depositary by the manual and/or facsimile signature of a duly authorized officer of the Depositary. No Receipt shall be entitled to any benefits under this Deposit Agreement or be valid or obligatory for any purpose unless it shall have been executed in accordance with the foregoing sentence. The Depositary shall record on its books each Receipt so signed and delivered as hereinafter provided.
Receipts shall be in denominations of any number of whole Depositary Shares. The Company shall deliver to the Depositary from time to time such quantities of Receipts as the Depositary may request to enable the Depositary to perform its obligations under this Deposit Agreement.
Receipts may be endorsed with or have incorporated in the text thereof such legends or recitals or changes not inconsistent with the provisions of this Deposit Agreement as may be required by the Depositary or required to comply with any applicable law or any regulation thereunder or with the rules and regulations of any securities exchange upon which the Shares, the Depositary Shares or the Receipts may be listed or to conform with any usage with respect thereto, or to indicate any special limitations or restrictions to which any particular Receipts are subject.
 
Title to Depositary Shares evidenced by a Receipt, which is properly endorsed or accompanied by a properly executed instrument of transfer, shall be transferable, pursuant to applicable law, and in particular but not by way of limitation, the terms of Article 8 of the Uniform Commercial Code; provided, however, that until transfer of a Receipt shall be registered on the books of the Depositary as provided in Section 2.3, the Depositary may, notwithstanding any notice to the contrary, treat the record holder thereof at such time as the absolute owner thereof for the purpose of determining the person entitled to distributions of dividends or other distributions or to any notice provided for in this Deposit Agreement and for all other purposes.
SECTION 2.2 . Subject to the terms and conditions of this Deposit Agreement, the Company or, subject to Section 2.4, any holder of Shares may from time to time deposit Shares under this Deposit Agreement by delivery to the Depositary of a certificate or certificates for the Shares to be deposited, properly endorsed or accompanied, if required by the Depositary, by a duly executed instrument of transfer or endorsement, in form satisfactory to the Depositary, together with all such certifications as may be required by the Depositary in accordance with the provisions of this Deposit Agreement, and together with a written order of the Company or such holder, as the case may be, directing the Depositary to execute and deliver to, or upon the written order of, the person or persons stated in such order a Receipt or Receipts for the number of Depositary Shares representing such deposited Shares.
Deposit of Shares; Execution and Delivery of Receipts in Respect Thereof
Deposited Shares shall be held by the Depositary at the Depositary's Office or at such other place or places as the Depositary shall determine.
Upon receipt by the Depositary of a certificate or certificates for Shares deposited in accordance with the provisions of this Section, together with the other documents required as above specified, and upon recordation of the Shares on the books of the Company in the name of the Depositary or its nominee, the Depositary, subject to the terms and conditions of this Deposit Agreement, shall execute and deliver, to or upon the order of the person or persons named in the written order delivered to the Depositary referred to in the first paragraph of this Section, a Receipt or Receipts for the whole number of Depositary Shares representing, in the aggregate, the Shares so deposited and registered in such name or names as may be requested by such person or persons. The Depositary shall execute and deliver such Receipt or Receipts at the Depositary's Office or such other offices, if any, as the Depositary may designate. Delivery at other offices shall be at the risk and expense of the person requesting such delivery.
SECTION 2.3 . Subject to the terms and conditions of this Deposit Agreement, the Depositary shall register on the books of the Company from time to time transfers of Receipts upon any surrender thereof by the holder in person or by a duly authorized attorney, properly endorsed or accompanied by a properly executed instrument of transfer as well as a signature guarantee of such holder or authorized attorney by eligible guarantor institution which is a participant in a medallion guarantee program approved by the Securities Transfer Association. Thereupon, the Depositary shall execute a new Receipt or Receipts evidencing the same aggregate number of Depositary Shares as those evidenced by the Receipt or Receipts surrendered and deliver such new Receipt or Receipts to or upon the order of the person entitled thereto.
Registration of Transfer of Receipts
 
SECTION 2.4 . Upon surrender of a Receipt or Receipts at the Depositary's Office or at such other offices as it may designate for the purpose of effecting a split-up or combination of such Receipt or Receipts, and subject to the terms and conditions of this Deposit Agreement, the Depositary shall execute and deliver a new Receipt or Receipts in the authorized denomination or denominations requested, evidencing the aggregate number of Depositary Shares evidenced by the Receipt or Receipts surrendered; provided, however, that the Depositary shall not issue any Receipt evidencing a fractional Depositary Share.
Split-ups and Combinations of Receipts; Surrender of Receipts and Withdrawal of Shares
Any holder of a Receipt or Receipts representing any number of whole Shares may (unless the related Depositary Shares have previously been called for redemption) withdraw the Shares and all money and other property, if any, represented thereby by surrendering such Receipt or Receipts at the Depositary's Office or at such other offices as the Depositary may designate for such withdrawals and paying any unpaid amount due the Depositary. Thereafter, without unreasonable delay, the Depositary shall deliver to such holder or to the person or persons designated by such holder as hereinafter provided, the number of whole Shares and all money and other property, if any, represented by the Receipt or Receipts so surrendered for withdrawal, but holders of such whole Shares will not thereafter be entitled to deposit such Shares hereunder or to receive Depositary Shares therefor. If a Receipt delivered by the holder to the Depositary in connection with such withdrawal shall evidence a number of Depositary Shares in excess of the number of Depositary Shares representing the number of whole Shares to be so withdrawn, the Depositary shall at the same time, in addition to such number of whole Shares and such money and other property, if any, to be so withdrawn, deliver to such holder, or upon his order, a new Receipt evidencing such excess number of Depositary Shares, , , that the Depositary shall not issue any Receipt evidencing a fractional Depositary Share. Delivery of the Shares and money and other property being withdrawn may be made by the delivery of such certificates, documents of title and other instruments as the Depositary may deem appropriate which, if required by the Depositary, shall be properly endorsed or accompanied by proper instruments of transfer.
provided
however
If the Shares and the money and other property being withdrawn are to be delivered to a person or persons other than the record holder of the Receipt or Receipts being surrendered for withdrawal of Shares, such holders shall execute and deliver to the Depositary a written order so directing the Depositary and the Depositary may require that the Receipt or Receipts surrendered by such holder for withdrawal of such Shares be properly endorsed in blank or accompanied by a properly executed instrument of transfer in blank.
Delivery of the Shares and the money and other property, if any, represented by Receipts surrendered for withdrawal shall be made by the Depositary at the Depositary's Office, except that, at the request, risk and expense of the holder surrendering such Receipt or Receipts and for the account of the holder thereof.
SECTION 2.5 . As a condition precedent to the execution and delivery, registration of transfer, split-up, combination, surrender or exchange of any Receipt, the Depositary, any of the Depositary's Agents or the Company may require payment to it of a sum sufficient for the payment (or, in the event that the Depositary or the Company shall have made such payment, the
Limitations on Execution and Delivery, Transfer, Surrender and Exchange of Receipts
 
reimbursement to it) of any charges or expenses payable by the holder of a Receipt pursuant to Sections 3.2 and 5.7, may require the production of evidence satisfactory to it as to the identity and genuineness of any signature, and may also require compliance with such regulations, if any, as the Depositary or the Company may establish consistent with the provisions of this Agreement.
The deposit of Shares may be refused, the delivery of Receipts against Shares may be suspended, the registration of transfer of Receipts may be refused and the registration of transfer, surrender or exchange of outstanding Receipts may be suspended (i) during any period when the register of shareholders of the Company is closed, or (ii) if any such action is deemed necessary or advisable by the Depositary, any of the Depositary's Agents or the Company at any time or from time to time because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body or commission or under any provision of this Agreement.
SECTION 2.6 . In case any Receipt shall be mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen, the Depositary in its reasonable discretion may execute and deliver a Receipt of like form and tenor in exchange and substitution for such mutilated Receipt, or in lieu of and in substitution for such destroyed, lost or stolen Receipt, upon (i) the filing by the holder thereof with the Depositary of evidence reasonably satisfactory to the Depositary of such destruction or loss or theft of such Receipt, of the authenticity thereof and of his or her ownership thereof, (ii) the furnishing of the Depositary with a surety bond reasonably satisfactory to it and (iii) the payment of any reasonable expense (including reasonable fees, charges and expenses of the Depositary) in connection with such execution and delivery.
Lost Receipts, etc
SECTION 2.7 . All Receipts surrendered to the Depositary or any Depositary's Agent shall be cancelled by the Depositary. Except as prohibited by applicable law or regulation, the Company is authorized to destroy all Receipts so cancelled.
Cancellation and Destruction of Surrendered Receipts
SECTION 2.8 . Whenever the Company shall be permitted and shall elect to redeem Shares in accordance with the provisions of the applicable Certificate, it shall (unless otherwise agreed to in writing with the Depositary) give or cause to be given to the Depositary not less than 60 days' notice of the date of such proposed redemption of Shares and of the number of such Shares held by the Depositary to be so redeemed and the applicable redemption price, as set forth in the applicable Certificate, which notice shall be accompanied by a certificate from the Company stating that such redemption of Shares is in accordance with the provisions of the applicable Certificate. Notice of redemption of Shares will also be given by the Company by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the County of Los Angeles and the City of New York, such publication to be made once a week for two successive weeks commencing not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the redemption date, and the Depositary will publish a notice of redemption of the Depositary Shares containing the same type of information and in the same manner as the Company's notice of redemption. On the date of such redemption, provided that the Company shall then have paid or caused to be paid in full to the Depositary the redemption price of the Shares to be redeemed, plus an amount equal to any accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for redemption, in accordance with the provisions of the applicable Certificate, the Depositary shall redeem the number of Depositary Shares representing such Shares. The Depositary shall mail notice of the Company's redemption
Redemption of Shares
 
of Shares and the proposed simultaneous redemption of the number of Depositary Shares representing the Shares to be redeemed by first-class mail, postage prepaid, not less than 30 and not more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for redemption of such Shares and Depositary Shares (the "Redemption Date") to the record holders of the Receipts evidencing the Depositary Shares to be so redeemed, at the address of such holders as they appear on the records of the Depositary; but neither failure to mail any such notice of redemption of Depositary Shares to one or more such holders nor any defect in any notice of redemption of Depositary Shares to one or more such holders shall affect the sufficiency of the proceedings for redemption as to the other holders. The Company will provide the Depositary with the information necessary for the Depositary to prepare such notice and each such notice shall state: (i) the Redemption Date; (ii) the class, series and number of Depositary Shares to be redeemed and, if less than all the Depositary Shares of a particular class or series held by any such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such Depositary Shares of such class or series held by such holder to be so redeemed; (iii) the applicable redemption price per Depositary Share; (iv) the place or places where Receipts evidencing Depositary Shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends in respect of the Shares represented by such Depositary Shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on such Redemption Date. In case less than all the outstanding Depositary Shares of a particular class or series are to be redeemed, the Depositary Shares to be so redeemed shall be determined pro rata or by lot in a manner determined by the Board of Trustees of the Company.
Notice having been mailed by the Depositary as aforesaid, from and after the Redemption Date (unless the Company shall have failed to provide the funds necessary to redeem the Shares evidenced by the Depositary Shares called for redemption) (i) dividends on the Shares so called for redemption shall cease to accrue from and after such date, (ii) the Depositary Shares being redeemed from such proceeds shall be deemed no longer to be outstanding, (iii) all rights of the holders of Receipts evidencing such Depositary Shares (except the right to receive the redemption price) shall, to the extent of such Depositary Shares, cease and terminate, and (iv) upon surrender in accordance with such redemption notice of the Receipts evidencing any such Depositary Shares called for redemption (properly endorsed or assigned for transfer, if the Depositary or applicable law shall so require), such Depositary Shares shall be redeemed by CSS at a redemption price per Depositary Share equal to the same fraction of the redemption price per share paid with respect to the Shares as the fraction each Depositary Share represents of a Share plus the same fraction of all money and other property, if any, represented by such Depositary Shares, including all amounts paid by the Company in respect of dividends which on the Redemption Date have accumulated on the Shares to be so redeemed and have not theretofore been paid. Any funds deposited by the Company with CSS for any Depositary Shares that the holders thereof fail to redeem will be returned to the Company after a period of five years from the date such funds are so deposited.
If fewer than all of the Depositary Shares evidenced by a Receipt are called for redemption, the Depositary will deliver to the holder of such Receipt upon its surrender to the Depositary, together with the redemption payment, a new Receipt evidencing the Depositary Shares evidenced by such prior Receipt and not called for redemption, , , that the Depositary shall not issue any Receipt evidencing a fractional Depositary Share.
provided
however
 
SECTION 3.1 . Any holder of a Receipt may be required from time to time to file such proof of residence, or other matters or other information, to execute such certificates and to make such representations and warranties as the Depositary or the Company may reasonably deem necessary or proper or otherwise reasonably request. The Depositary or the Company may withhold the delivery, or delay the registration of transfer, redemption or exchange, of any Receipt or the withdrawal or conversion of the Shares represented by the Depositary Shares evidenced by any Receipt or the distribution of any dividend or other distribution or the sale of any rights or of the proceeds thereof until such proof or other information is filed or such certificates are executed or such representations and warranties are made
Filing Proofs, Certificates and Other Information
.
SECTION 3.2 . Holders of Receipts shall be obligated to make payments to the Depositary of certain charges and expenses, as provided in Section 5.7. Registration of transfer of any Receipt or any withdrawal of Shares and all money or other property, if any, represented by the Depositary Shares evidenced by such Receipt may be refused until any such payment due is made, and any dividends, interest payments or other distributions may be withheld or any part of or all the Shares or other property represented by the Depositary Shares evidenced by such Receipt and not theretofore sold may be sold for the account of the holder thereof (after attempting by reasonable means to notify such holder prior to such sale), and such dividends, interest payments or other distributions or the proceeds of any such sale may be applied to any payment of such charges or expenses, the holder of such Receipt remaining liable for any deficiency.
Payment of Taxes or Other Governmental Charges
SECTION 3.3 . The Company hereby represents and warrants that the Shares, when issued, will be duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable and that such issuance will comply with applicable state and federal securities laws. Such representation and warranty shall survive the deposit of the Shares and the issuance of Receipts.
Warranty as to Shares
SECTION 4.1 Whenever CSS shall receive any cash dividend or other cash distribution on any Shares, CSS shall, subject to Sections 3.1 and 3.2, distribute to record holders of the corresponding Receipts on the record date fixed pursuant to Section 4.4 such amounts of such dividend or distribution as are, as nearly as practicable, in proportion to the respective numbers of Depositary Shares evidenced by the Receipts held by such holders; provided, however, that in case the Company or CSS shall be required to withhold and shall withhold from any cash dividend or other cash distribution in respect of such Shares an amount on account of taxes or as otherwise required by law, regulation or court process, the
Cash Distributions.
 
amount made available for distribution or distributed in respect of Depositary Shares shall be reduced accordingly. In the event that the calculation of any such cash dividend or other cash distribution to be paid to any record holder on the aggregate number of Depositary Receipts held by such holder results in an amount which is a fraction of a cent, the amount CSS shall distribute to such record holder shall be rounded to the next highest whole cent if such fraction of a cent is equal to or greater than $.005, otherwise such fractional interest shall be disregarded; and upon request of CSS, the Company shall pay the additional amount to CSS for distribution.
SECTION 4.2 Whenever the Depositary shall receive any distribution other than cash, rights, preferences or privileges upon any Shares, the Depositary shall, subject to Sections 3.1 and 3.2, distribute to record holders of the corresponding Receipts on the record date fixed pursuant to Section 4.4 such amounts of the securities or property received by it as are, as nearly as practicable, in proportion to the respective numbers of Depositary Shares evidenced by the Receipts held by such holders, in any manner that the Depositary may deem equitable and practicable for accomplishing such distribution. If in the opinion of the Depositary such distribution cannot be made proportionately among such record holders, or if for any other reason (including any requirement that the Company or the Depositary withhold an amount on account of taxes) the Depositary deems such distribution not to be feasible, the Depositary may, with the approval of the Company, adopt such method as it deems equitable and practicable for the purpose of effecting such distribution, including the sale (at public or private sale) of the securities or property thus received, or any part thereof, at such place or places and upon such terms as it may deem equitable and appropriate. The net proceeds of any such sale shall, subject to Sections 3.1 and 3.2, be distributed or made available for distribution, as the case may be, by the Depositary to record holders of Receipts as provided by Section 4.1 in the case of a distribution received in cash.
Distributions Other than Cash, Rights, Preferences or Privileges
.
SECTION 4.3 . If the Company shall at any time offer or cause to be offered to the persons in whose names any Shares are recorded on the books of the Company any rights, preferences or privileges to subscribe for or to purchase any securities or any rights, preferences or privileges of any other nature, such rights, preferences or privileges shall in each such instance be made available by the Depositary to the record holders of the corresponding Receipts in such manner as the Depositary may determine, either by the issue to such record holders of warrants representing such rights, preferences or privileges or by such other method as may be approved by the Depositary in its discretion with the approval of the Company; , , that (i) if at the time of issue or offer of any such rights, preferences or privileges the Depositary determines that it is not lawful or (after consultation with the Company) not feasible to make such rights, preferences or privileges available to holders of Receipts by the issue of warrants or otherwise, or (ii) if and to the extent so instructed by holders of Receipts who do not desire to execute such rights, preferences or privileges, then the Depositary, in its discretion (with approval of the Company, in any case where the Depositary has determined that it is not feasible to make such rights, preferences or privileges available), may, if applicable laws or the terms of such rights, preferences or privileges permit such transfer, sell such rights, preferences or privileges at public or private sale, at such place or places and upon such terms as it may deem proper. The net proceeds of any such sale shall, subject to Sections 3.1 and 3.2, be distributed by the Depositary to the record
Subscription Rights, Preferences or Privileges
provided
however
 
holders of Receipts entitled thereto as provided by Section 4.1 in the case of a distribution received in cash.
If registration under the Securities Act of the securities to which any rights, preferences or privileges relate is required in order for holders of Receipts to be offered or sold the securities to which such rights, preferences or privileges relate, the Company will file promptly a registration statement pursuant to the Securities Act with respect to such rights, preferences or privileges and securities and use its best efforts and take all steps available to it to cause such registration statement to become effective sufficiently in advance of the expiration of such rights, preferences or privileges to enable such holders to exercise such rights, preferences or privileges. In no event shall the Depositary make available to the holders of Receipts any right, preference or privilege to subscribe for or to purchase any securities unless and until it has received written notice from the Company that such registration statement shall have become effective, or that the offering and sale of such securities to such holders are exempt from registration under the provisions of the Securities Act and the Company shall have provided to the Depositary an opinion of counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Depositary to such effect.
If any other action under the laws of any jurisdiction or any governmental or administrative authorization, consent or permit is required in order for such rights, preferences or privileges to be made available to holders of Receipts, the Company will use its reasonable best efforts to take such action or obtain such authorization, consent or permit sufficiently in advance of the expiration of such rights, preferences or privileges to enable such holders to exercise such rights, preferences or privileges.
SECTION 4.4 Whenever any cash dividend or other cash distribution shall become payable or any distribution other than cash shall be made, or if rights, preferences or privileges shall at any time be offered, with respect to any Shares, or whenever the Depositary shall receive notice of any meeting at which holders of any Shares are entitled to vote or of which holders of any Shares are entitled to notice, or whenever the Depositary and the Company shall decide it is appropriate, the Depositary shall in each such instance fix a record date (which shall be the same date as the record date fixed by the Company with respect to or otherwise in accordance with the terms of the Shares) for the determination of the holders of the corresponding Receipts who shall be entitled to receive such dividend, distribution, rights, preferences or privileges or the net proceeds of the sale thereof, or to give instructions for the exercise of voting rights at any such meeting, or who shall be entitled to notice of such meeting or for any other appropriate reasons.
Notice of Dividends, etc.; Fixing Record Date for Holders of Receipts.
SECTION 4.5 . Upon receipt of notice of any meeting at which the holders of any Shares are entitled to vote, the Depositary shall, as soon as practicable thereafter, mail to the record holders of the corresponding Receipts a notice which shall contain (i) such information as is contained in such notice of meeting and (ii) a statement that the holders may, subject to any applicable restrictions, instruct the Depositary as to the exercise of the voting rights pertaining to the amount of such Shares represented by their respective Depositary Shares (including an express indication that instructions may be given to the Depositary to give a discretionary proxy to a person designated by the Company) and a brief statement as to the manner in which such instructions may be given. Upon the written request of the holders of Receipts on the relevant record date, the Depositary shall use its best efforts to vote or cause to
Voting Rights
 
be voted, in accordance with the instructions set forth in such requests, the maximum number of whole Shares represented by the Depositary Shares evidenced by all Receipts as to which any particular voting instructions are received. The Company hereby agrees to take all action which may be deemed necessary by the Depositary in order to enable the Depositary to vote such Shares or cause such Shares to be voted. In the absence of specific instructions from the holder of a Receipt, the Depositary will not vote (but, at its discretion, may appear at any meeting with respect to such Shares unless directed to the contrary by the holders of all the Receipts) to the extent of the Shares represented by the Depositary Shares evidenced by such Receipt.
SECTION 4.6 Upon any change in par value or liquidation preference, split-up, combination or any other reclassification of any Shares, or upon any recapitalization, reorganization, merger or consolidation affecting the Company or to which it is a party, the Depositary may in its discretion with the approval (not to be unreasonably withheld) of, and shall upon the instructions of, the Company, and (in either case) in such manner as the Depositary may deem equitable, (i) make such adjustments in the fraction of an interest in one such Share represented by one Depositary Share as may be necessary (as certified by the Company) fully to reflect the effects of such change in par value or liquidation preference, split-up, combination or other reclassification of such Shares, or of such recapitalization, reorganization, merger or consolidation and (ii) treat any securities which shall be received by the Depositary in exchange for or upon conversion of or in respect of the Shares as new deposited securities so received in exchange for or upon conversion or in respect of such Shares. In any such case, the Depositary may in its discretion, with the approval of the Company, execute and deliver additional Receipts or may call for the surrender of all outstanding Receipts to be exchanged for new Receipts specifically describing such new deposited securities. Anything to the contrary herein notwithstanding, holders of the corresponding Receipts shall have the right from and after the effective date of any such change in par value or liquidation preference, split-up, combination or other reclassification of the Shares or any such recapitalization, reorganization, merger or consolidation to surrender such Receipts to the Depositary with instructions to convert, exchange or surrender the Shares represented thereby only into or for, as the case may be, the kind and amount of shares of stock and other securities and property and cash into which the Shares represented by such Receipts would have been converted or for which such Shares would have been exchanged or surrendered had such Receipt been surrendered immediately prior to the effective date of such transaction.
Changes Affecting Deposited Securities and Reclassifications, Recapitalizations, etc.
SECTION 4.7 . The Depositary shall furnish to holders of Receipts any reports and communications received from the Company which are received by the Depositary as the holder of Shares.
Delivery of Reports
SECTION 4.8 . Promptly upon request from time to time by the Company, the Depositary shall furnish to it a list, as of the most recent practicable date, of the names, addresses and holdings of Depositary Shares of all record holders of Receipts representing each class or series of Shares evidenced thereby. The Company shall be entitled to receive such a list in respect of each class or series of Shares so evidenced four times annually without charge.
List of Receipt Holders
 
SECTION 5.1 . Upon execution of this Deposit Agreement, the Depositary shall maintain at the Depositary's office facilities for the execution and delivery, registration and registration of transfer, surrender and exchange of Receipts, and at the offices of the Depositary's Agents, if any, facilities for the delivery, registration of transfer, surrender and exchange of Receipts, all in accordance with the provisions of this Deposit Agreement.
Maintenance of Offices, Agencies and Transfer Books by the Depositary; Registrar
The Depositary shall keep books at the Depositary's Office for the registration and registration of transfer of Receipts, in compliance with applicable law provided that any such holder requesting to exercise such right shall certify to the Depositary that such inspection shall be for a proper purpose reasonably related to such person's interest as an owner of Depositary Shares evidenced by the Receipts.
The Depositary may close such books, at any time or from time to time, when deemed necessary by it in connection with the performance of its duties hereunder.
The Depositary may, with the approval of the Company, appoint a Registrar for registration of the Receipts or the Depositary Shares evidenced thereby. If the Receipts or the Depositary Shares evidenced thereby or the Shares represented by such Depositary Shares shall be listed on one or more national securities exchanges, the Depositary will appoint a Registrar (acceptable to the Company) for registration of such Receipts or Depositary Shares in accordance with any requirements of such exchange. Such Registrar (which may be the Depositary if so permitted by the requirements of any such exchange) may be removed and a substitute registrar appointed by the Depositary upon the request or with the approval of the Company. If the Receipts, such Depositary Shares or such Shares are listed on one or more other stock exchanges, the Depositary will, at the request and at the expense of the Company, arrange such facilities for the delivery, registration, registration of transfer, surrender and exchange of such Receipts, such Depositary Shares or such Shares as may be required by law or applicable securities exchange regulation.
The Depositary may from time to time appoint Depositary's Agents to act in any respect for the Depositary for the purposes of this Deposit Agreement and may at any time appoint additional Depositary's Agents and vary or terminate the appointment of such Depositary's Agents. The Depositary will notify the Company of any such action.
. Neither the Depositary nor any Depositary's
SECTION 5.2 Prevention of or Delay in Performance by the Depositary, the Depositary's Agents, the Registrar or the Company
 
Agent nor the Registrar nor the Company shall incur any liability to any holder of any Receipt if by reason of any provision of any present or future law, or regulation thereunder, of the United States of America or of any other governmental authority or, in the case of the Depositary, the Depositary's Agent or the Registrar, by reason of any provision, present or future, of the Company's declaration of trust or by reason of any act of God or war or other circumstance beyond the control of the relevant party, the Depositary, the Depositary's Agent, the Registrar or the Company shall be prevented, delayed or forbidden from, or subjected to any penalty on account of, doing or performing any act or thing which the terms of this Deposit Agreement provide shall be done or performed; nor shall the Depositary, any Depositary's Agent, the Registrar or the Company incur liability to any holder of a Receipt (i) by reason of any nonperformance or delay, caused as aforesaid, in the performance of any act or thing which the terms of this Deposit Agreement shall provide shall or may be done or performed, or (ii) by reason of any exercise of, or failure to exercise, any discretion provided for in this Deposit Agreement except, in the case of any such exercise or failure to exercise discretion not caused as aforesaid, if caused by the gross negligence or willful misconduct of the party charged with such exercise or failure to exercise.
SECTION 5.3 Neither the Depositary nor any Depositary's Agent nor the Registrar nor the Company assumes any obligation or shall be subject to any liability under this Deposit Agreement or any Receipt to holders of Receipts other than for its gross negligence, willful misconduct or bad faith.
Obligation of the Depositary, the Depositary's Agents, the Registrar and the Company.
Neither the Depositary nor any Depositary's Agent nor the Registrar nor the Company shall be under any obligation to appear in, prosecute or defend any action, suit or other proceeding in respect of the Shares, the Depositary Shares or the Receipts which in its reasonable opinion may involve it in expense or liability unless indemnity reasonably satisfactory to it against expense and liability be furnished as often as may be reasonably required.
Neither the Depositary nor any Depositary's Agent nor the Registrar nor the Company shall be liable for any action or any failure to act by it in reliance upon the written advice of legal counsel or accountants, or information from any person presenting Shares for deposit, any holder of a Receipt or any other person believed by it in good faith to be competent to give such information. The Depositary, any Depositary's Agent, the Registrar and the Company may each rely and shall each be protected in acting upon any written notice, request, direction or other document reasonably believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper party or parties.
The Depositary shall not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instruction to vote any of the Shares or for the manner or effect of any such vote made, as long as any such action or non-action is in good faith. The Depositary will indemnify the Company and hold it harmless from any loss, liability or expense (including the reasonable costs and expenses of defending itself) which may arise out of acts performed or omitted by the Depositary, including when such Depositary acts as Registrar, or the Depositary's Agents in connection with this Agreement due to its or their gross negligence, willful misconduct or bad faith. The indemnification obligations of the Depositary set forth in this Section 5.3 shall survive any termination of this Agreement and any succession of any Depositary.
 
The Depositary, its parent, affiliates or subsidiaries, the Depositary's Agents, and the Registrar may own, buy, sell and deal in any class of securities of the Company and its affiliates and in Receipts or Depositary Shares or become pecuniarily interested in any transaction in which the Company or its affiliates may be interested or contract with or lend money to or otherwise act as fully or as freely as if it were not the Depositary, parent, affiliate or subsidiary or Depositary's Agent or Registrar hereunder. The Depositary may also act as trustee, transfer agent or registrar of any of the securities of the Company and its affiliates.
It is intended that neither the Depositary nor any Depositary's Agent nor the Registrar, acting as the Depositary's Agent or Registrar, as the case may be, shall be deemed to be an "issuer" of the securities under the federal securities laws or applicable state securities laws, it being expressly understood and agreed that the Depositary, any Depositary's Agent and the Registrar are acting only in a ministerial capacity as Depositary or Registrar for the Shares.
Neither the Depositary (or its officers, directors, employees or agents) nor any Depositary's Agent nor the Registrar makes any representation or has any responsibility as to the validity of any registration statement pursuant to which the Depositary Shares are registered under the Securities Act, the Shares, the Depositary Shares or the Receipts (except for its counter-signatures thereon) or any instruments referred to therein or herein, or as to the correctness of any statement made therein or herein.
The Depositary assumes no responsibility for the correctness of the description that appears in the Receipts, which can be taken as a statement of the Company summarizing certain provisions of this Deposit Agreement. Notwithstanding any other provision herein or in the Receipts, the Depositary makes no warranties or representations as to the validity or genuineness of any Shares at any time deposited with the Depositary hereunder or of the Depositary Shares, as to the validity or sufficiency of this Deposit Agreement, as to the value of the Depositary Shares or as to any right, title or interest of the record holders of Receipts in and to the Depositary Shares. The Depositary shall not be accountable for the use or application by the Company of the Depositary Shares or the Receipts or the proceeds thereof.
SECTION 5.4 . The Depositary may at any time resign as Depositary hereunder by delivering notice of its election to do so to the Company, such resignation to take effect upon the appointment of a successor Depositary and its acceptance of such appointment as hereinafter provided.
Resignation and Removal of the Depositary; Appointment of Successor Depositary
The Depositary may at any time be removed by the Company by notice of such removal delivered to the Depositary, such removal to take effect upon the appointment of a successor Depositary and its acceptance of such appointment as hereinafter provided.
In case at any time the Depositary acting hereunder shall resign or be removed, the Company shall, within 60 days after the delivery of the notice of resignation or removal, as the case may be, appoint a successor Depositary, which shall be a bank or trust company having its principal office in the United States of America and having a combined capital and surplus of at least $150,000,000. If no successor Depositary shall have been so appointed and have accepted appointment within 60 days after delivery of such notice, the resigning or removed
 
Depositary may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Depositary. Every successor Depositary shall execute and deliver to its predecessor and to the Company an instrument in writing accepting its appointment hereunder, and thereupon such successor Depositary, without any further act or deed, shall become fully vested with all the rights, powers, duties and obligations of its predecessor and for all purposes shall be the Depositary under this Deposit Agreement, and such predecessor, upon payment of all sums due it and on the written request of the Company, shall execute and deliver an instrument transferring to such successor all rights and powers of such predecessor hereunder, shall duly assign, transfer and deliver all right, title and interest in the Shares and any moneys or property held hereunder to such successor, and shall deliver to such successor a list of the record holders of all outstanding Receipts and such records, books and other information in its possession relating thereto. Any successor Depositary shall promptly mail notice of its appointment to the record holders of Receipts.
Any corporation into or with which the Depositary may be merged, consolidated or converted shall be the successor of such Depositary without the execution or filing of any document or any further act, and notice thereof shall not be required hereunder. Such successor Depositary may authenticate the Receipts in the name of the predecessor Depositary or in the name of the successor Depositary.
SECTION 5.5 The Company agrees that it will deliver to the Depositary, and the Depositary will, promptly after receipt thereof, transmit to the record holders of Receipts, in each case at the addresses recorded in the Depositary's books, copies of all notices and reports (including without limitation financial statements) required by law or by the rules of any national securities exchange upon which the Shares, the Depositary Shares or the Receipts are listed, to be furnished to the record holders of Receipts. Such transmission will be at the Company's expense and the Company will provide the Depositary with such number of copies of such documents as the Depositary may reasonably request.
Corporate Notices and Reports.
SECTION 5.6 . The Company shall indemnify the Depositary, any Depositary's Agent and the Registrar against, and hold each of them harmless from, any loss, liability or expense (including the reasonable costs and expenses of defending itself) which may arise out of acts performed or omitted in connection with this Deposit Agreement and the Receipts by the Depositary, any Registrar or any of their respective agents (including any Depositary's Agent), except for any liability arising out of gross negligence, willful misconduct or bad faith on the respective parts of any such person or persons. The obligations of the Company set forth in this Section 5.6 shall survive any succession of any Depositary or Depositary's Agent. Subject to the foregoing, the Depositary may, at any time, apply to any officer of the Company for instruction, and may consult with legal counsel for the Company with respect to any matter arising in connection with the services to be performed by the Depositary under this Agreement, and Depositary and its agents and subcontractors shall not be liable and shall be indemnified by the Company for any action taken or omitted by it in reliance upon such instructions or upon the advice or opinion of such counsel.
Indemnification by the Company
SECTION 5.7 . The Company shall pay all transfer and other taxes and governmental charges arising solely from the existence of the depositary arrangements. The Company shall pay charges of the Depositary in connection with the initial
Charges and Expenses
 
deposit of the Shares and the initial issuance of the Depositary Shares, all withdrawals of Shares by owners of Depositary Shares, and any redemption of the Shares at the option of the Company. All other transfer and other taxes and governmental charges shall be at the expense of holders of Depositary Shares. If, at the request of a holder of Receipts, the Depositary incurs charges or expenses for which it is not otherwise liable hereunder, such holder will be liable for such charges and expenses. All other charges and expenses of the Depositary and any Depositary's Agent hereunder (including, in each case, reasonable fees and expenses of counsel) incident to the performance of their respective obligations hereunder will be paid upon consultation and agreement between the Depositary and the Company as to the amount and nature of such charges and expenses. The Depositary shall present its statement for charges and expenses to the Company at such intervals as the Company and the Depositary may agree.
SECTION 5.8 . The Depositary, on its own behalf and on behalf of the Company, will comply with all applicable certification, information reporting and withholding (including "backup" withholding) requirements imposed by applicable tax laws, regulations or administrative practice with respect to (i) any payments made with respect to the Depositary Shares or (ii) the issuance, delivery, holding, transfer, redemption or exercise of rights under the Depositary Receipts or the Depositary Shares. Such compliance shall include, without limitation, the preparation and timely filing of required returns and the timely payment of all amounts required to be withheld to the appropriate taxing authority or its designated agent.
Tax Compliance
The Depositary shall comply with any direction received from the Company with respect to the application of such requirements to particular payments or holders or in other particular circumstances, and may for purposes of this Agreement rely on any such direction in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.3 hereof.
The Depositary shall maintain all appropriate records documenting compliance with such requirements, and shall make such records available on request to the Company or to its authorized representatives.
The Company acknowledges that the bank accounts maintained by CSS in connection with the services provided hereunder will be in CSS's name and that, to the extent permitted by law, CSS may receive investment earnings in connection with the investment at CSS's risk and for its benefit of funds held in those accounts from time to time.
SECTION 6.1 . The form of the Receipts and any provisions of this Deposit Agreement may at any time and from time to time be amended by agreement between the Company and the Depositary in any respect which they may deem necessary or desirable; , , that no such amendment (other than any change in the fees of any Depositary or Registrar, which shall go into effect not sooner than three months after notice thereof to the holders of the Receipts) which shall materially adversely alter the rights of the holders of Receipts shall be effective unless such amendment shall have been approved by the holders of at least a majority of the Depositary Shares then outstanding. Every holder of an outstanding
Amendment
provided
however
 
Receipt at the time any such amendment becomes effective shall be deemed, by continuing to hold such Receipt, to be bound by the Deposit Agreement as amended thereby. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event may any amendment impair the right of any holder of any Depositary Shares, upon surrender of the Receipts evidencing such Depositary Shares and subject to any conditions specified in this Deposit Agreement, to receive Shares and any money or other property represented thereby, except in order to comply with mandatory provisions of applicable law.
SECTION 6.2 . This Deposit Agreement may be terminated by the Company at any time upon not less than 60 days' prior written notice to the Depositary, in which case, on a date that is not later than 30 days after the date of such notice, the Depositary shall deliver or make available for delivery to holders of Depositary Shares, upon surrender of the Receipts evidencing such Depositary Shares, such number of whole or fractional Shares as are represented by such Depositary Shares. This Deposit Agreement will automatically terminate after (i) all outstanding Depositary Shares have been redeemed pursuant to Section 2.8 or (ii) there shall have been made a final distribution in respect of the Shares in connection with any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company and such distribution shall have been distributed to the holders of Depositary Receipts pursuant to Section 4.1 or 4.2, as applicable.
Termination
Upon the termination of this Deposit Agreement, the Company shall be discharged from all obligations under this Deposit Agreement except for its obligations to the Depositary, the Registrar and any Depositary's Agent under Sections 5.6 and 5.7.
SECTION 7.1. This Deposit Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, and by each of the parties hereto on separate counterparts, each of which counterparts, when so executed and delivered, shall be deemed an original, but all such counterparts taken together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
SECTION 7.2 This Deposit Agreement is for the exclusive benefit of the parties hereto, and their respective successors hereunder, and shall not be deemed to give any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim to any other person whatsoever.
Exclusive Benefit of Parties.
SECTION 7.3 In case any one or more of the provisions contained in this Deposit Agreement or in the Receipts should be or become invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions contained herein or therein shall in no way be affected, prejudiced or disturbed thereby.
Invalidity of Provisions.
SECTION 7.4. Any and all notices to be given to the Company hereunder or under the Receipts shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if personally delivered or sent by mail, or by telegram or facsimile transmission confirmed by letter, addressed to the Company at:
Notices
Public Storage
701 Western Avenue, 2nd Floor
 
Glendale, California 91201-2397
Facsimile No.: (818) 244-9267
or at any other address of which the Company shall have notified the Depositary in writing.
Any and all notices to be given to the Depositary hereunder or under the Receipts shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if personally delivered or sent by mail or by telegram or facsimile transmission confirmed by letter, addressed to the Depositary at the Depositary's Office, at:
Computershare Trust Company, N. A.
250 Royall Street
Mail Stop: 3B
Canton, MA 02021
Attention: Client Administration
Facsimile No.: (617) 575-2549
or at any other address of which the Depositary shall have notified the Company in writing.
Any and all notices to be given to any record holder of a Receipt hereunder or under the Receipts shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if personally delivered or sent by mail, or by telegram or facsimile transmission confirmed by letter, addressed to such record holder at the address of such record holder as it appears on the books of the Depositary, or if such holder shall have filed with the Depositary a written request that notices intended for such holder be mailed to some other address, at the address designated in such request.
Delivery of a notice sent by mail or by telegram or facsimile transmission shall be deemed to be effected at the time when a duly addressed letter containing the same (or a confirmation thereof in the case of a telegram or facsimile transmission) is deposited for mailing by first class mail, postage prepaid. The Depositary or the Company may, however, act upon any telegram or facsimile transmission received by it from the other or from any holder of a Receipt, notwithstanding that such telegram or facsimile transmission shall not subsequently be confirmed by letter or as aforesaid.
SECTION 7.5 The Company hereby also appoints the Depositary as Registrar in respect of the Receipts and the Depositary hereby accepts such appointments.
Appointment of Registrar.
SECTION 7.6 The holders of Receipts from time to time shall be parties to this Deposit Agreement and shall be bound by all of the terms and conditions hereof and of the Receipts by acceptance of delivery thereof.
Holders of Receipts Are Parties.
SECTION 7.7 THIS DEPOSIT AGREEMENT AND THE RECEIPTS AND ALL RIGHTS HEREUNDER AND THEREUNDER AND PROVISIONS HEREOF AND THEREOF SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS APPLICABLE TO CONTRACTS MADE IN AND TO
Governing Law.
 
BE PERFORMED IN THE STATE OF NEW YORK, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION SECTION 5-1401 OF THE NEW YORK GENERAL OBLIGATIONS LAW.
SECTION 7.8 . Copies of this Deposit Agreement shall be filed with the Depositary and the Depositary's Agent and shall be open to inspection during business hours at the Depositary's Office or respective offices of the Depositary's Agent, if any, by any holder of a Receipt made available to any holder of a Receipt at the Company's expense.
Inspection of Deposit Agreement
SECTION 7.9 . The headings of articles and sections in this Deposit Agreement and in the form of the Receipt set forth in Exhibit A hereto have been inserted for convenience only and are not to be regarded as a part of this Deposit Agreement or the Receipts or to have any bearing upon the meaning or interpretation of any provision contained herein or in the Receipts.
Headings
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company and the Depositary have duly executed this Agreement as of the day and year first above set forth, and all holders of Receipts shall become parties hereto by and upon acceptance by them of delivery of Receipts issued in accordance with the terms hereof.
 
 
ANNEX A
The Trust will furnish to any shareholder, without charge on request made to the Secretary of the Trust at its principal office or to the Transfer Agent, a full statement of the information required by Section 8-203(d) of the Maryland REIT Law with respect to the designations and any preferences, conversion and other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends and other distributions, qualifications, and terms and conditions of redemption of the shares of each class which the Trust has authority to issue and, if the Trust is authorized to issue any preferred or special class in series, (i) the differences in the relative rights and preferences between the shares of each series to the extent set, and (ii) the authority of the Board of Trustees to set such relative rights and preferences of subsequent series.
The shares represented by this depositary receipt are subject to restrictions on Beneficial Ownership and Transfer. Subject to certain further restrictions and except as expressly provided in the Trust's
Declaration of Trust,
(i) no Person may Beneficially Own shares of any class or series of Common Shares of the Trust in excess of 3% (in value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of the outstanding shares of such class or series, other than (A) an Excepted Holder, (B) a Designated Investment Entity or (C) a Person granted an Exemption;
(ii) no Person may Beneficially Own shares of any class or series of Preferred Shares or Equity Shares of the Trust in excess of 9.9% (in value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of the outstanding shares of such class or series, as the case may be, other than (A) an Excepted Holder (with respect to Equity Shares), (B) a Designated Investment Entity or (C) a Person granted an Exemption;
(iii) no Excepted Holder may Beneficially Own any class or series of Common Shares or Equity Shares in excess of the Excepted Holder Limit for such Excepted Holder, as set forth in the Trust's Declaration of Trust;
(iv) no Designated Investment Entity may Beneficially Own any class or series of Common Shares of the Trust in excess of 9.9% (in value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of the outstanding shares of such class or series;
(v) no Person may Beneficially Own Shares that would result in the Trust being "closely held" under Section 856(h) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the "Code") or otherwise cause the Trust to fail to qualify as a real estate investment trust under the Code; and
(vi) no Person may Transfer Shares if such Transfer would result in Shares of the Trust being owned by fewer than 100 Persons.
Any Person who Beneficially Owns or attempts to Beneficially Own Shares which cause or will
 
cause a Person to Beneficially Own Shares in excess or in violation of the limitations set forth in the Trust's Declaration of Trust must immediately notify the Trust. If any of the restrictions on transfer or ownership are violated, the Shares represented hereby will be automatically transferred to a Charitable Trustee of a Charitable Trust for the benefit of one or more Charitable Beneficiaries. In addition, upon the occurrence of certain events, attempted Transfers in violation of the restrictions described above may be void ab initio. A Person who attempts to Beneficially Own Shares in violation of the ownership limitations described above shall have no claim, cause of action, or any recourse whatsoever against a transferor of such Shares. All capitalized terms in this legend have the meanings defined in the Trust's Declaration of Trust, as the same may be amended from time to time, a copy of which, including the restrictions on transfer and ownership, will be furnished to each holder of Shares of the Trust on request and without charge.
 
 
 
hereby certifies that
is the registered owner of DEPOSITARY SHARES
                                                                                 
("Depositary Shares"), each Depositary Share representing a
 1
/
1,000
interest in one of [.] % [                    ] Share of Beneficial Interest, Series {                    }(the "Shares"), of Public Storage, a Maryland real estate investment trust (the "Company"), on deposit with the Depositary, subject to the terms and entitled to the benefits of the Deposit Agreement dated as of May [], 2007 (the "Deposit Agreement"), between the Company and the Depositary. By accepting this Depositary Receipt, the holder hereof becomes a party to and agrees to be bound by all the terms and conditions of the Deposit Agreement. This Depositary Receipt shall not be valid or obligatory for any purpose or be entitled to any benefits under the Deposit Agreement unless it shall have been executed by the Depositary by the manual and/or facsimile signature of a duly authorized officer or, if executed in facsimile by the Depositary, countersigned by a Registrar in respect of the Depositary Receipts by a duly authorized officer.
    
    
    
The Company is authorized to issue Common Shares, one or more series of Preferred Shares, one or more series of Equity Shares and Depositary Shares. The Company will furnish without charge to each receiptholder, who so requests in writing, a statement of the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions granted to or imposed upon the respective classes of shares and upon the holders thereof, a copy of the Company's Bylaws and a copy of the Deposit Agreement. Any such request shall be made to the Company at the principal office of the Company at 701 Western Avenue, Glendale, California 91201-2397, Attention: Secretary.
This Depositary Receipt is continued on the reverse hereof and the additional provisions set forth therein (including, without limitation, those relating to redemption) for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
Dated:
 
 
THE SHARES REPRESENTED BY THIS DEPOSITARY RECEIPT ARE SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THE DECLARATION OF TRUST AND BYLAWS, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO (1) APPLICABLE SECTIONS OF THE ARTICLES SUPPLEMENTARY RELATING TO THE SHARES WHICH CONFER UPON THE BOARD THE RIGHT, ON OR AFTER [],TO CALL FOR REDEMPTION THE SHARES, AND (2) ARTICLE VII OF THE DECLARATION OF TRUST, WHICH CONFERS UPON THE BOARD THE RIGHT TO REFUSE TO REGISTER THE TRANSFER OF AND/OR TO CALL FOR REDEMPTION THE SHARES REPRESENTED BY THIS CERTIFICATE IF NECESSARY IN ITS OPINION TO MAINTAIN THE COMPANY'S QUALIFICATION AS A "REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUST" UNDER THE INTERNAL REVENUE CODE OF 1986, AS AMENDED, AND, WHICH SET FORTH OWNERSHIP LIMITATION PROVISIONS DESIGNED TO MAINTAIN SUCH QUALIFICATION.
    
1. . Depositary Receipts, of which this Depositary Receipt is one, are made available upon the terms and conditions set forth in the Deposit Agreement, dated as of May 31, 2007 (the "Deposit Agreement"), among the Company, the Depositary and all holders from time to time of Depositary Receipts. The Deposit Agreement (copies of which are on file at the principal office maintained by the Depositary which at the time of the execution of the Deposit Agreement is located at 250 Royall Street, Mail Stop: 45-02-62, Canton, MA 02021 (the "Depositary's Office") and at the office of any agent of the Depositary) sets forth the rights of holders of Depositary Receipts and the rights and duties of the Depositary. The statements made on the face and the reverse of this Depositary Receipt are summaries of certain provisions of the Deposit Agreement and are subject to the detailed provisions thereof, to which reference is hereby made. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this Depositary Receipt and the provisions of the Deposit Agreement, the provisions of the Deposit Agreement will govern.
The Deposit Agreement
2. . Unless otherwise expressly herein provided, all defined terms used in this summary of the Deposit Agreement shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Deposit Agreement.
Definitions
3. . Whenever the Company shall elect to redeem Shares, it shall (unless otherwise agreed in writing with the Depositary) give the Depositary not less than 60 days' notice of the date of such proposed redemption and of the number of such Shares held by the Depositary to be so redeemed and the applicable redemption price. The Depositary shall mail, first-class postage prepaid, notice of the redemption of Shares and the proposed simultaneous redemption of Depositary Shares representing the Shares to be redeemed, not less than 30 and not more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for redemption of such Shares and Depositary Shares, to the record holders of the Depositary Receipts evidencing the Depositary Shares to be so redeemed, at the addresses of such holders as the same appear on the records of the Depositary. Any such notice shall also be published in the same manner as notices of redemption of the Shares are required to be published by the Company. On the date of such redemption, the Depositary shall redeem the number of Depositary Shares representing such redeemed Shares; provided, that the Company shall then have paid or caused to be paid in full to the Depositary the redemption price of the Shares to be redeemed, plus any accrued and unpaid dividends payable with respect thereto to the date of any such redemption. In case fewer than all the outstanding Depositary Shares are to be redeemed, the Depositary Shares to be redeemed shall be determined pro rata or by lot in a manner determined by the Board of Directors. Notice having been mailed as aforesaid, from and after the Redemption Date (unless the Company shall have failed to provide the funds necessary to redeem the Shares evidenced by the Depositary Shares called for
Redemption of Shares
 
redemption), dividends on the Shares so called for redemption shall cease to accrue, the Depositary Shares called for redemption shall be deemed no longer to be outstanding and all rights of the holders of Depositary Receipts evidencing such Depositary Shares (except the right to receive the redemption price) shall, to the extent of such Depositary Shares, cease and terminate. Upon surrender in accordance with said notice of the Depositary Receipts evidencing such Depositary Shares (properly endorsed or assigned for transfer, if the Depositary or applicable law shall so require), such Depositary Shares shall be redeemed at a redemption price per Depositary Share equal to the same fraction of the redemption price per share paid with respect to the Shares as the fraction each Depositary Share represents of a Share plus the same fraction of all money and other property, if any, represented by such Depositary Shares, including all amounts paid by the Company in respect of dividends which on the Redemption Date have accumulated on the Shares to be so redeemed and have not theretofore been paid. The foregoing is subject further to the terms and conditions of the Articles Supplementary. If fewer than all of the Depositary Shares evidenced by this Depositary Receipt are called for redemption, the Depositary will deliver to the holder of this Depositary Receipt upon its surrender to the Depositary, together with the redemption payment, a new Depositary Receipt evidencing the Depositary Shares evidenced by such prior Depositary Receipt and not called for redemption.
4. . Upon surrender of this Depositary Receipt to the Depositary at the Depositary's Office or at such other offices as the Depositary may designate, and subject to the provisions of the Deposit Agreement, the holder hereof is entitled to withdraw, and to obtain delivery, without unreasonable delay, to or upon the order of such holder, any or all of the Shares (but only in whole shares of Shares) and all money and other property, if any, at the time represented by the Depositary Shares evidenced by this Depositary Receipt; provided, however, that, in the event this Depositary Receipt shall evidence a number of Depositary Shares in excess of the number of Depositary Shares representing the whole number of Shares to be withdrawn, the Depositary shall, in addition to such whole number of Shares and such money and other property, if any, to be withdrawn, deliver, to or upon the order of such holder, a new Depositary Receipt or Depositary Receipts evidencing such excess number of whole Depositary Shares.
Surrender of Depositary Receipts and Withdrawal of Shares
5. . Subject to the Deposit Agreement, this Depositary Receipt is transferable on the books of the Depositary upon surrender of this Depositary Receipt to the Depositary, properly endorsed or accompanied by a properly executed instrument of transfer, and upon such transfer the Depositary shall sign and deliver a Depositary Receipt or Depositary Receipts to or upon the order of the person entitled thereto, all as provided in and subject to the Deposit Agreement. This Depositary Receipt may be split into other Depositary Receipts or combined with other Depositary Receipts into one Depositary Receipt evidencing the same aggregate number of Depositary Shares evidenced by the Depositary Receipt or Depositary Receipts surrendered; provided, however, that the Depositary shall not issue any Depositary Receipt evidencing a fractional Depositary Share.
Transfers, Split-ups, Combinations
6. . Prior to the execution and delivery, registration of transfer, split-up, combination, surrender or exchange of this Depositary Receipt, the Depositary, any of the Depositary's Agents or the Company may
Conditions to Signing and Delivery, Transfer, etc., of Depositary Receipts
 
require any or all of the following: (i) payment to it of a sum sufficient for the payment (or, in the event that the Depositary or the Company shall have made such payment, the reimbursement to it) of any tax or other governmental charge with respect thereto; (ii) production of proof satisfactory to it as to the identity and genuineness of any signature; and (iii) compliance with such reasonable regulations, if any, as the Depositary or the Company may establish not inconsistent with the Deposit Agreement.
7. . The deposit of Shares may be refused, the delivery of this Depositary Receipt against Shares may be suspended, the registration of transfer of Depositary Receipts may be refused and the registration of transfer, surrender or exchange of this Depositary Receipt may be suspended (i) during any period when the register of stockholders of the Company is closed or (ii) if any such action is deemed necessary or advisable by the Depositary, any of the Depositary's Agents or the Company at any time or from time to time because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body or commission, or under any provision of the Deposit Agreement.
Suspension of Delivery, Transfer, etc
8. . The form of the Depositary Receipts and any provision of the Deposit Agreement may at any time and from time to time be amended by agreement between the Company and the Depositary in any respect that they may deem necessary or desirable; provided, however, that no such amendment (other than any changes in the fees of any Depositary or Registrar which shall go into effect not sooner than three months after Notice thereof to the holders of the Depositary Receipts) which shall materially adversely alter the rights of holders of Depositary Receipts shall be effective unless such amendment shall have been approved by at least a majority of the Depositary Shares then outstanding. The holder of this Depositary Receipt at the time any such amendment becomes effective shall be deemed, by continuing to hold this Depositary Receipt, to be bound by the Deposit Agreement as amended thereby. In no event shall any amendment impair the right of the owner of the Depositary Shares evidenced by this Depositary Receipt to surrender this Depositary Receipt with instructions to the Depositary to deliver to the holder the Shares and all money and other property, if any, represented thereby, except in order to comply with mandatory provisions of applicable law.
Amendment
9. . The Company will pay all transfer and other taxes and governmental charges arising solely from the existence of the depositary arrangement, except such charges as are expressly provided in the Deposit Agreement to be at the expense of holders of Depositary Receipts.
Charges and Expenses
10. . Title to this Depositary Receipt, when properly endorsed or accompanied by a properly executed instrument of transfer, is transferable by delivery with the same effect as in the case of a negotiable instrument; provided, however, that the Depositary may, notwithstanding any notice to the contrary, treat the record holder hereof at such time as the absolute owner hereof for the purpose of determining the person entitled to distribution of dividends or other distributions or to any notice provided for in the Deposit Agreement and for all other purposes.
Title to Depositary Receipts
11. . Whenever the Depositary shall receive any cash dividend or other cash distribution on the Shares, the Depositary shall, subject to the provisions of the Deposit Agreement, distribute to record holders of Depositary Receipts such amounts of such sums
Dividends and Distributions
 
as are, as nearly as practicable, in proportion to the respective numbers of Depositary Shares evidenced by the Depositary Receipts held by such holders; provided, however, that in case the Company or the Depositary shall be required by law to withhold and does withhold from any cash dividend or other cash distribution in respect of the Shares an amount on account of taxes or as otherwise required by law, regulation or court process, the amount made available for distribution or distributed in respect of Depositary Shares shall be reduced accordingly. In the event that the calculation of any such cash dividend or other cash distribution to be paid to any record holder on the aggregate number of Depositary Receipts held by such holder results in an amount which is a fraction of a cent, the amount the Depositary shall distribute to such record holder shall be rounded to the next highest whole cent; and upon request of the Depositary, the Company shall pay the additional amount to the Depositary for distribution.
12. . If the Company shall at any time offer or cause to be offered to the persons in whose name Shares are registered on the books of the Company any rights, preferences or privileges to subscribe for or to purchase any securities or any rights, preferences or privileges of any other nature, such rights, preferences or privileges shall in each such instance, subject to the provisions of the Deposit Agreement, be made available by the Depositary to the record holders of Depositary Receipts in such manner as the Depositary shall determine.
Subscription Rights, Preferences or Privileges
13. . Whenever (i) any cash dividend or other cash distribution shall become payable, or any distribution other than cash shall be made, or any rights, preferences or privileges shall at any time be offered, with respect to the Shares, or (ii) the Depositary shall receive notice of any meeting at which holders of Shares are entitled to vote or of which holders of Shares are entitled to notice or whenever the Depositary and the Company shall decide it is appropriate, the Depositary shall in each such instance fix a record date (which shall be the same date as the record date fixed by the Company with respect to the Shares) for the determination of the holders of Depositary Receipts (x) who shall be entitled to receive such dividend, distribution, rights, preferences or privileges or the net proceeds of the sale thereof, or (y) who shall be entitled to give instructions for the exercise of voting rights at any such meeting or to receive notice of such meeting or for any other appropriate reasons.
Notice of Dividends, Fixing of Record Date
14. . Upon receipt of notice of any meeting at which the holders of Shares are entitled to vote, the Depositary shall, as soon as practicable thereafter, mail to the record holders of Depositary Receipts a notice, which shall contain (i) such information as is contained in such notice of meeting, (ii) a statement that the holders may, subject to any applicable restrictions, instruct the Depositary as to the exercise of the voting rights pertaining to the Shares represented by their respective Depositary Shares, and (iii) a brief statement as to the manner in which such instructions may be given. Upon the written request of a holder of this Depositary Receipt on such record date the Depositary shall use its best efforts to vote or cause to be voted the Shares represented by the Depositary Shares evidenced by this Depositary Receipt in accordance with the instructions set forth in such request. The Company hereby agrees to take all action that may be deemed necessary by the Depositary in order to enable the Depositary to vote such Shares or cause such Shares to be voted. In the absence of specific instructions from the holder of this Depositary Receipt,
Voting Rights
 
the Depositary will abstain from voting to the extent of the Shares represented by the Depositary Shares evidenced by this Depositary Receipt.
15. . The Depositary shall transmit to the record holders of Depositary Receipts copies of all reports and communications received from the Company that are received by the Depositary as the holder of Shares. The Depositary shall keep books at the Corporate Office for the registration and transfer of Depositary Receipts, which books at all reasonable times will be open for inspection by the record holders of Depositary Receipts; provided that any such holder requesting to exercise such right shall certify to the Depositary that such inspection shall be for a proper purpose reasonably related to such person's interest as an owner of Depositary Shares.
Reports, Inspection of Transfer Books
16. . Neither the Depositary nor any Depositary's Agent nor the Registrar nor the Company shall incur any liability to any holder of this Depositary Receipt, if by reason of any provision of any present or future law or regulation thereunder of any governmental authority or, in the case of the Depositary, the Registrar or any Depositary's Agent, by reason of any provision present or future, of the Company's Declaration of Trust or by reason of any act of God or war or other circumstances beyond the control of the relevant party, the Depositary, any Depositary's Agent, the Registrar or the Company shall be prevented or forbidden from doing or performing any act or thing that the terms of the Deposit Agreement provide shall be done or performed; nor shall the Depositary, any Depositary's Agent, the Registrar or the Company incur any liability to any holder of this Depositary Receipt (i) by reason of any nonperformance or delay, caused as aforesaid, in the performance of any act or thing that the terms of the Deposit Agreement provide shall or may be done or performed, or (ii) by reason of any exercise of, or failure to exercise, any discretion provided for in the Deposit Agreement except if such exercise or failure to exercise discretion is caused by its gross negligence or willful misconduct.
Liability of the Depositary, the Depositary's Agents, the Registrar and the Company
17. . Neither the Depositary nor any Depositary's Agent nor the Registrar nor the Company assumes any obligation or shall be subject to any liability under the Deposit Agreement or this Depositary Receipt to the holder hereof or other persons, other than for its gross negligence, willful misconduct or bad faith.
Obligations of the Depositary, the Depositary's Agents, the Registrar and the Company
Neither the Depositary nor any Depositary's Agent nor the Registrar nor the Company shall be under any obligation to appear in, prosecute or defend any action, suit or other proceeding with respect to Shares, Depositary Shares or Depositary Receipts or Common Shares that in its opinion may involve it in expense or liability, unless indemnity satisfactory to it against all expense and liability be furnished as often as may be required.
Neither the Depositary nor any Depositary's Agent nor the Registrar nor the Company will be liable for any action or failure to act by it in reliance upon the advice of or information from legal counsel, accountants, any person presenting Shares for deposit, any holder of this Depositary Receipt or any other person believed by it in good faith to be competent to give such advice or information.
 
18. . Whenever so directed by the Company upon not less than 60 days' prior written notice, the Depositary will terminate the Deposit Agreement by mailing notice of such termination to the record holders of all Depositary Receipts then outstanding at least 30 days after the date of such notice. Upon the termination of the Deposit Agreement, the Company shall be discharged to all obligations thereunder except for its obligations to the Depositary, any Depositary's Agent and any Registrar under Sections 5.6 and 5.7 of the Deposit Agreement.
Termination of Deposit Agreement
19. . The Deposit Agreement and this Depositary Receipt and all rights thereunder and hereunder and provisions thereof and hereof shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the law of the State of New York, including without limitation Section 5-1401 of the New York General Obligations Law.
Governing Law
 
The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of this Depositary Receipt, shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws or regulations:
 
Additional abbreviations may also be used though not in the above list.
 
For Value Received, hereby sell, assign and transfer unto
                                                                                 
PLEASE INSERT SOCIAL SECURITY OR OTHER
IDENTIFYING NUMBER OF ASSIGNEE
 
PLEASE PRINT OR TYPEWRITE NAME AND ADDRESS INCLUDING POSTAL ZIP CODE OF ASSIGNEE
Depositary Shares represented by the within Depositary Receipt, and do hereby irrevocably constitute and appoint Attorney to transfer the said Depositary Shares on the books of the within named Depositary with full power of substitution in the premises.
                                                                                  
                                                                                 
 
SIGNATURE(S) GUARANTEED
 
 


