FILE:PSA/PSA-8K-20110805193543.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
(818) 244-8080
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
EXPLANATORY NOTE
This Form 8-K/A is being filed as an amendment (Amendment No. 1) to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed by Public Storage (the Company) with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) on May 6, 2011 (the Original Filing). The sole purpose of this Amendment No. 1 is to disclose, as required by SEC regulations, the Companys determination of the frequency of future shareholder advisory votes regarding the compensation of the Companys named executive officers. No changes have been made to the Original Filing.
 
 
Item 5.07(d).  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
As reported in the Original Filing, at the Companys 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders held on May 5, 2011, the Companys shareholders approved, on an advisory basis, holding an annual advisory vote regarding the compensation of the Companys named executive officers. After considering the outcome of the advisory shareholder vote, the Companys Board of Trustees determined that, consistent with the results of the shareholder advisory vote, the Company will conduct an annual advisory vote on the executive compensation program for named executive officers, with the next such vote to be conducted at the Companys 2012 Annual Meeting.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:           August 5, 2011
PUBLIC STORAGE
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
   
By:
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
  
/s/ Stephanie Heim
 Stephanie Heim
   
   
   
   
   
  
   
   
 Vice President
   
   
   
   
   
  
   
   
 
 
 


