FILE:CMG/CMG-8K-20091223172253.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On December 21, 2009, at a special meeting of shareholders of Chipotle Mexican Grill, Inc., the shareholders of Chipotle approved an Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation providing for (1) the conversion all outstanding shares of Chipotle Class B common stock into shares of Chipotle Class A common stock, (2) the renaming of the Class A common stock as "common stock," and (3) the elimination of certain provisions of Chipotle's prior Restated Certificate of Incorporation relating to Chipotle's previous dual-class common stock structure, the ownership interest formerly held in Chipotle by a majority investor, and certain other historical matters. Following receipt of shareholder approval at the special meeting, the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation was filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware and is now effective.
As a result of the conversion of shares of Class B common stock into shares of the class now titled "common stock" and the other changes described above and effected by the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, holders of each outstanding share of common stock are entitled to cast one vote per share on any matters subject to a shareholder vote. Holders of shares of Class B common stock were entitled to 10 votes per share, subject to exceptions, prior to the share conversion. In addition, holders of the common stock will all vote as a single class of stock on any matters subject to a shareholder vote. Holders of the former Class A common stock and Class B common stock were previously entitled to separate class voting rights in certain circumstances, and those class voting rights were eliminated with the share conversion.
The conversion has no impact on the economic equity interests of holders of common stock, including with regard to dividends, liquidation rights or redemption, regardless of whether holders previously held shares of Class A common stock or Class B common stock.
Effective December 22, 2009, all shares of the common stock began trading as a single class on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol "CMG." As a result of the conversion, trading of the Class B common stock under the ticker symbol "CMG.B" was suspended prior to opening of the NYSE on December 22, 2009. The CUSIP number of the Common Stock is the same as the prior Class A common stock, 169656 105.
 
On December 21, 2009, Chipotle issued a press release announcing shareholder approval and effectiveness of the share conversion and related matters described in Item 3.03.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Investor Relations:
Kate Giha
614-508-1303
Media:
Chris Arnold
303-222-5912
 
Denver, Colorado (Business Wire)  December 21, 2009  Chipotle Mexican Grill, Inc. (NYSE: CMG and CMG.B) announced that at a special meeting of shareholders held earlier today, the company's shareholders approved a proposal to convert all of the outstanding shares of the company's Class B common stock into shares of Class A common stock on a one-for-one basis, and to rename the Class A common stock as "common stock." The conversion proposal required the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the voting power of the Class A common stock and Class B common stock, voting together as a single class, as well as the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the Class B common stock voting as a separate class.
To implement the share conversion, Chipotle will file today an Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware. The conversion will become effective immediately upon filing of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, and shareholders need not take any action to convert their shares. Any existing stock certificates validly issued for shares of Chipotle Class A or Class B common stock will represent shares of Chipotle's single class of common stock, and shares held in brokerage accounts will be automatically adjusted by the broker to reflect the conversion and name change.
Beginning on December 22, 2009, trading in the Class B common stock (CMG.B) on the New York Stock Exchange will be suspended, and all trading in Chipotle common stock will be under the ticker symbol CMG. The CUSIP number for Chipotle common stock is 169656 105, the same number previously assigned to the Class A common stock.
Adoption of this proposal has no effect upon the Company's future operations or capital structure or on the substantive rights of holders of shares of Class A common stock or Class B common stock, except for the elimination of the different voting powers and rights of the two classes.
About Chipotle
Steve Ells, Founder, Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer, started Chipotle with the idea that food served fast did not have to be a typical fast food experience. Today, Chipotle continues to offer a focused menu of burritos, tacos, burrito bowls (a burrito without the tortilla) and salads made from fresh, high-quality raw ingredients, prepared using classic cooking methods and served in a distinctive atmosphere. Through our vision of, Chipotle is seeking better food not only from using fresh ingredients, but ingredients that are sustainably grown and naturally raised with respect for the animals, the land, and the farmers who produce the food. Chipotle opened its first restaurant in 1993 and currently operates more than 900 restaurants. For more information, visit Chipotle.com.
Food with Integrity
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements in this press release, including statements regarding the impact of Chipotle's share conversion, are forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. We use words such as "anticipate", "believe", "could", "should", "estimate", "expect", "intend", "may", "predict", "project", "target", and similar terms and phrases, including references to assumptions, to identify forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements in this press release are based on information available to us as of the date any such statements are made and we assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the following: potential changes in our stock price, which will impact the amount and timing of our share repurchases and may result in our not repurchasing any shares; the uncertainty of our ability to achieve expected levels of comparable restaurant sales increases; factors that could affect our ability to achieve and manage our planned expansion, such as the availability of a sufficient number of suitable new restaurant sites and the availability of qualified employees; changes in consumer preferences, general economic conditions or consumer discretionary spending; changes in the availability and costs of food; risks relating to our expansion into new markets; the potential for adverse impacts from changes to our new restaurant development strategy; the risk of food-borne illnesses and other health concerns about our food products; the impact of federal, state or local government regulations relating to our employees and the sale of food or alcoholic beverages; the impact of litigation; risks related to our implementation of a new marketing strategy; our ability to protect our name and logo and other proprietary information; the potential effects of inclement weather; the effect of competition in the restaurant industry; risks related to our separation from McDonald's; and other risk factors described from time to time in our SEC reports, including our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q all of which are available on the Investor Relations page of our Web site at chipotle.com.


