FILE:CMG/CMG-8K-20100421161137.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 21, 2010 Chipotle Mexican Grill, Inc. issued a press release announcing earnings and other financial results for its fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2010, and that management would review these results in a conference call at 4:30 p.m. Eastern Time on April 21, 2010.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Investor Relations:
Kate Giha
614-508-1303
Media:
Chris Arnold
303-222-5912
 
Denver, Colorado (Business Wire) April 21, 2010 Chipotle Mexican Grill, Inc. (NYSE: CMG) today reported financial results for its first quarter ended March 31, 2010.
Highlights for the first quarter of 2010 as compared to the first quarter of 2009 include:
 
 
 
 
 
"We're extremely proud of our first quarter results, and we're delighted to see more customer visits to Chipotle after a year where the tough economy impacted us. These strong financial results only strengthen our commitment to our vision to change the way people think about and eat fast food by serving great tasting food made from higher quality and more sustainable raw ingredients" said Founder, Chairman and Co-CEO Steve Ells.
First quarter 2010 results
Revenue for the quarter was $409.7 million, up 15.6% from the prior year period. The growth in revenue was the result of new restaurants not in the comparable base and a 4.3% increase in comparable restaurant sales. Comparable restaurant sales growth was driven by increased traffic in the quarter.
During the quarter Chipotle opened 20 new restaurants, bringing the total restaurant count to 976.
Restaurant level operating margin was 26.1% in the quarter, an increase of 260 basis points over the prior year period. The increase was primarily driven by the impact of comparable restaurant sales growth and continued labor efficiencies.
G&A costs were 6.4% of revenue, down 30 basis points from the prior year period. The improvement as a percent of revenue was attributed to the impact of comparable restaurant sales growth which was partially offset by higher stock based compensation expense.
Net income for the first quarter of 2010 was $37.8 million, or $1.19 per diluted share, compared to $25.4 million, or $0.78 per diluted share, in the first quarter of 2009.
"The commitment of our restaurant managers and crew to provide great customer service and serve great tasting food is paying off with increased customer visits. Our efforts to hire and develop top performing crew will continue to lead to stronger future leaders running our restaurants, and ensure our customers will enjoy the best customer service possible" said Co-CEO Monty Moran.
Outlook
For 2010, management expects the following:
 
 
 
Definitions
The following definitions apply to these terms as used throughout this release:
represent the change in period-over-period sales for the comparable restaurant base. A restaurant becomes comparable in its 13
Comparable restaurant sales increases
th
full calendar month of operation.
refers to the average trailing 12-month sales for restaurants in operation for at least 12 full calendar months.
Average restaurant sales
represents total revenue less restaurant operating costs, expressed as a percent of total revenue.
Restaurant level operating margin
Conference Call
Chipotle will host a conference call to discuss first quarter 2010 financial results today at 4:30 PM Eastern Time. The conference call can be accessed live over the phone by dialing 1-888-204-4349 or 1-913-312-1401 for international callers. A replay will be available one hour after the call and can be accessed by dialing 1-888-203-1112 or 1-719-457-0820 for international callers. The password is 4925049. The replay will be available until April 28, 2010. The call will be webcast live from the Company's website at chipotle.com under the Investor Relations section. An archived webcast will be available approximately one hour after the end of the call.
About Chipotle
Steve Ells, Founder, Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer, started Chipotle with the idea that food served fast did not have to be a typical fast food experience. Today, Chipotle continues to offer a focused menu of burritos, tacos, burrito bowls (a burrito without the tortilla) and salads made from fresh, high-quality raw ingredients, prepared using classic cooking methods and served in a distinctive atmosphere. Through our vision of, Chipotle is seeking better food not only from using fresh ingredients, but ingredients that are sustainably grown and naturally raised with respect for the animals, the land, and the farmers who produce the food. Chipotle opened its first restaurant in 1993 and currently operates more than 975 restaurants. For more information, visit chipotle.com.
Food With Integrity
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements in this press release, including statements under the heading "Outlook" of our expected comparable restaurant sales increases, the number of restaurants we intend to open, and our expected effective tax rate in 2010 are forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. We use words such as "anticipate", "believe", "could", "should", "estimate", "expect", "intend", "may", "predict", "project", "target", and similar terms and phrases, including references to assumptions, to identify forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements in this press release are based on information available to us as of the date any such statements are made and we assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the following: the uncertainty of our ability to achieve expected levels of comparable restaurant sales increases; factors that could affect our ability to achieve and manage our planned expansion, such as the availability of a sufficient number of suitable new restaurant sites and the availability of qualified employees; the performance of new restaurants and their impact on existing restaurant sales; changes in consumer preferences, general economic conditions or consumer discretionary spending; changes in the availability and costs of food; the risk of food-borne illnesses and other health concerns about our food products; the potential for increased labor costs or difficulty retaining qualified employees; the impact of federal, state or local government regulations relating to our employees and the sale of food or alcoholic beverages; risks relating to our expansion into new markets; risks related to our development and implementation of a new marketing strategy; the effects of continuing economic uncertainty on our business and on our suppliers, landlords and potential developers; our ability to protect our name and logo and other proprietary information; the potential effects of inclement weather; the effect of competition in the restaurant industry; risks related to the tax treatment of our separation from McDonald's; and other risk factors described from time to time in our SEC reports, including our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, all of which are available on the Investor Relations page of our Web site at chipotle.com.
 
 
 
 


