FILE:CMG/CMG-8K-20100722161448.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 22, 2010 Chipotle Mexican Grill, Inc. issued a press release announcing earnings and other financial results for its fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2010, and that management would review these results in a conference call at 4:30 p.m. Eastern Time on July 22, 2010.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Investor Relations:
Kate Giha
614-508-1303
Media:
Chris Arnold
303-222-5912
 
Denver, Colorado (Business Wire) July 22, 2010 Chipotle Mexican Grill, Inc. (NYSE: CMG) today reported financial results for its second quarter ended June 30, 2010.
Highlights for the second quarter of 2010 as compared to the second quarter of 2009 include:
 
 
 
 
 
Highlights for the six months ended June 30, 2010 as compared to the prior year include:
 
 
 
 
 
"The second quarter was filled with a number of very exciting milestones. We opened our first restaurant in London; we opened our 1,000th restaurant in Flower Mound, Texas; and we continued to advance our Food with Integrity program by introducing barbacoa made with naturally raised beef into all of our restaurants. We are excited about the progress we have made toward our vision to change the way the world thinks about and eats fast food and look forward to many more milestones as we begin our journey to the next 1,000 restaurants," said Founder, Chairman, and Co-CEO Steve Ells.
Second quarter 2010 results
Revenue for the quarter was $466.8 million, up 20.1% from the prior year period. The growth in revenue was the result of new restaurants not in the comparable base and an 8.7% increase in comparable restaurant sales. Comparable restaurant sales growth was primarily driven by increased traffic in the quarter.
During the quarter Chipotle opened 25 new restaurants, bringing the total restaurant count to 1,001.
Restaurant level operating margin was 26.9% in the quarter, an increase of 90 basis points over the prior year period. The increase was primarily driven by the impact of comparable restaurant sales growth and a decline in food costs.
G&A costs were 6.5% of revenue, down 10 basis points from the prior year period. The improvement as a percent of revenue was attributed to the impact of comparable restaurant sales growth partially offset by increased stock based compensation expense.
Net income for the second quarter of 2010 was $46.5 million, or $1.46 per diluted share, compared to $35.4 million, or $1.10 per diluted share, in the second quarter of 2009.
Results for the six months ended June 30, 2010
Revenue for the first six months of 2010 was $876.5 million, up 17.9% from the prior year period. The growth in revenue was the result of new restaurants not in the comparable base and a 6.6% increase in comparable restaurant sales. Comparable restaurant sales growth was primarily driven by increased traffic during the first six months of 2010.
Restaurant level operating margin was 26.5% for the first six months, an increase of 170 basis points over the prior year period. The increase was primarily driven by the impact of comparable restaurant sales growth and a decline in food costs.
G&A costs for the first six months of 2010 were 6.4% of revenue, down 30 basis points from the prior year period. The improvement as a percent of revenue was attributed to the impact of comparable restaurant sales growth which was partially offset by higher stock based compensation expense.
Net income for the first six months of 2010 was $84.3 million, or $2.65 per diluted share, compared to $60.8 million, or $1.88 per diluted share, in the first six months of 2009.
"Our unique people culture-one that appeals to and rewards high performers-is the driving force behind all of our accomplishments. Our high performing managers are creating a culture of empowerment in their restaurants, enabling our energetic and ambitious crew to treat each customer to the best dining experience possible. And our strong comps are a clear indication that our restaurant teams' efforts are paying off. As we look beyond our 1,000
th
restaurant, we have a deeper bench of future leaders than ever before which keeps us well positioned for future growth," commented Co-CEO Monty Moran.
Outlook
For 2010, management expects the following:
 
 
 
Definitions
The following definitions apply to these terms as used throughout this release:
represent the change in period-over-period sales for the comparable restaurant base. A restaurant becomes comparable in its 13
Comparable restaurant sales increases
th
full calendar month of operation.
refers to the average trailing 12-month sales for restaurants in operation for at least 12 full calendar months.
Average restaurant sales
represents total revenue less restaurant operating costs, expressed as a percent of total revenue.
Restaurant level operating margin
Conference Call
Chipotle will host a conference call to discuss second quarter 2010 financial results today at 4:30 PM Eastern Time. The conference call can be accessed live over the phone by dialing 1-800-401-3551 or 1-913-643-4197 for international callers. A replay will be available one hour after the call and can be accessed by dialing 1-877-870-5176 or 1-858-384-5517 for international callers. The password is 2574255. The replay will be available until July 29, 2010. The call will be webcast live from the Company's website at chipotle.com under the Investor Relations section. An archived webcast will be available approximately one hour after the end of the call.
About Chipotle
Steve Ells, Founder, Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer, started Chipotle with the idea that food served fast did not have to be a typical fast food experience. Today, Chipotle continues to offer a focused menu of burritos, tacos, burrito bowls (a burrito without the tortilla) and salads made from fresh, high-quality raw ingredients, prepared using classic cooking methods and served in a distinctive atmosphere. Through our vision of, Chipotle is seeking better food not only from using fresh ingredients, but ingredients that are sustainably grown and naturally raised with respect for the animals, the land, and the farmers who produce the food. Chipotle opened its first restaurant in 1993 and currently operates more than 1000 restaurants. For more information, visit chipotle.com.
Food With Integrity
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements in this press release, including statements under the heading "Outlook" of our expected comparable restaurant sales increases and effective tax rate in 2010, and statements there and elsewhere in the release regarding the number of restaurants we intend to open in 2010 and beyond, are forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. We use words such as "anticipate", "believe", "could", "should", "estimate", "expect", "intend", "may", "predict", "project", "target", and similar terms and phrases, including references to assumptions, to identify forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements in this press release are based on information available to us as of the date any such statements are made and we assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the following: the uncertainty of our ability to achieve expected levels of comparable restaurant sales increases; factors that could affect our ability to achieve and manage our planned expansion, such as the availability of a sufficient number of suitable new restaurant sites and the availability of qualified employees; the performance of new restaurants and their impact on existing restaurant sales; changes in consumer preferences, general economic conditions or consumer discretionary spending; changes in the availability and costs of food; the risk of food-borne illnesses and other health concerns about our food products; the potential for increased labor costs or difficulty retaining qualified employees; the impact of federal, state or local government regulations relating to our employees and the sale of food or alcoholic beverages; risks relating to our expansion into new markets; risks related to our development and implementation of a new marketing strategy; the effects of continuing economic uncertainty on our business and on our suppliers, landlords and potential developers; our ability to protect our name and logo and other proprietary information; the potential effects of inclement weather; the effect of competition in the restaurant industry; risks related to the tax treatment of our separation from McDonald's; and other risk factors described from time to time in our SEC reports, including our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, all of which are available on the Investor Relations page of our Web site at chipotle.com.
 
 
 
 


