FILE:CMG/CMG-8K-20110719161334.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 19, 2011 Chipotle Mexican Grill, Inc. issued a press release announcing earnings and other financial results for its fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2011, and that management would review these results in a conference call at 4:30 p.m. Eastern Time on July 19, 2011.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
PRESS RELEASE
Investor Relations:
Alex Spong
303-222-2552
 
Denver, Colorado (Business Wire)July 19, 2011 Chipotle Mexican Grill, Inc. (NYSE: CMG) today reported financial results for its second quarter ended June 30, 2011.
Highlights for the second quarter of 2011 as compared to the second quarter of 2010 include:
 
 
 
 
 
Highlights for the six months ended June 30, 2011 as compared to the prior year include:
 
 
 
 
 
"We are continuing to focus on our efforts to serve better tasting food, made with ingredients from more sustainable sources, and on building a people culture that delights our customers and allows us to develop the future leaders we will need to support our growth. In spite of some cost challenges during the quarter, we continue to believe that our relentless focus on these things, which really drive our business, will allow us to produce great results for our shareholders over the long term," said Steve Ells, founder, chairman and co-CEO of Chipotle.
Second quarter 2011 results
Revenue for the quarter was $571.6 million, up 22.4% from the prior year period. The growth in revenue was the result of new restaurants not in the comparable base and a 10.0% increase in comparable restaurant sales. Comparable restaurant sales growth was primarily driven by increased traffic in the quarter.
During the quarter Chipotle opened 39 new restaurants, bringing the total restaurant count to 1,131.
Restaurant level operating margin was 25.8% in the quarter, a decrease of 110 basis points over the prior year period. The decrease was primarily driven by food cost inflation partially offset by leverage from comparable restaurant sales growth.
G&A costs were 7.3% of revenue, up 80 basis points from the prior year period. The increase as a percent of revenue was driven by an increase in non-cash stock-based compensation and by higher legal costs.
Results for the quarter were also impacted by the loss on Chipotle's investment in ANGR Holdings, LLC, which operated the restaurants awarded on the television program America's Next Great Restaurant prior to their closure. The loss resulted in a pre-tax charge of $2.4 million, or a diluted EPS impact of 5 cents.
Net income for the second quarter of 2011 was $50.7 million, or $1.59 per diluted share, compared to $46.5 million, or $1.46 per diluted share, in the second quarter of 2010.
Results for the six months ended June 30, 2011
Revenue for the first six months of 2011 was $1.08 billion, up 23.3% from the prior year period. The growth in revenue was the result of new restaurants not in the comparable base and an 11.1% increase in comparable restaurant sales. Comparable restaurant sales growth was primarily driven by increased traffic during the first six months of 2011.
During the first six months of the year, Chipotle opened 51 new restaurants, bringing the total restaurant count to 1,131.
Restaurant level operating margin was 25.5% for the first six months, a decrease of 100 basis points from the prior year period. The decrease was primarily driven by increased food costs partially offset by the impact of leverage from comparable restaurant sales growth.
G&A costs for the first six months of 2011 were 6.9% of revenue, up 50 basis points from the prior year period. The increase as a percent of revenue was primarily driven by an increase in non-cash stock-based compensation.
Net income for the first six months of 2011 was $97.0 million, or $3.06 per diluted share, compared to $84.3 million, or $2.65 per diluted share, in the first six months of 2010.
"We're pleased that our comps and new restaurant sales have performed well, which is a reflection of the experience our customers enjoy when they visit Chipotle, and which our teams and our people culture are responsible for delivering. While we're working hard to tackle the challenges that arose during this quarter, we're confident that the stronger our people culture becomes, the better customer experience we will deliver, which will lead to more loyal customers, even stronger sales trends, and better financial results" commented Co-CEO Monty Moran.
Outlook
For 2011, management expects the following:
 
 
 
Definitions
The following definitions apply to these terms as used throughout this release:
represent the change in period-over-period sales for the comparable restaurant base. A restaurant becomes comparable in its 13
Comparable restaurant sales increases
th
full calendar month of operation.
refers to the average trailing 12-month sales for restaurants in operation for at least 12 full calendar months.
Average restaurant sales
represents total revenue less restaurant operating costs, expressed as a percent of total revenue.
Restaurant level operating margin
Conference Call
Chipotle will host a conference call to discuss second quarter 2011 financial results today at 4:30 PM Eastern Time. The conference call can be accessed live over the phone by dialing 1-800-946-0783 or 1-719-457-2642 for international callers. A replay will be available one hour after the call and can be accessed by dialing 1-877-870-5176 or 1-858-384-5517 for international callers. The password is
9636291. The replay will be available until July 26, 2011. The call will be webcast live from the Company's website at chipotle.com under the Investor Relations section. An archived webcast will be available approximately one hour after the end of the call.
About Chipotle
Steve Ells, Founder, Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer, started Chipotle with the idea that food served fast did not have to be a typical fast food experience. Today, Chipotle continues to offer a focused menu of burritos, tacos, burrito bowls (a burrito without the tortilla) and salads made from fresh, high-quality raw ingredients, prepared using classic cooking methods and served in a distinctive atmosphere. Through our vision of , Chipotle is seeking better food not only from using fresh ingredients, but ingredients that are sustainably grown and naturally raised with respect for the animals, the land, and the farmers who produce the food. Chipotle opened its first restaurant in 1993 and currently operates over 1,100 restaurants. For more information, visit chipotle.com.
Food With Integrity
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements in this press release, including statements under the heading "Outlook" of our expected number of new restaurant openings, comparable restaurant sales increases and effective tax rate in 2011 as well as statements elsewhere in the release regarding the impact of our people culture on future sales trends and financial results, are forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. We use words such as "anticipate", "believe", "could", "should", "estimate", "expect", "intend", "may", "predict", "project", "target", and similar terms and phrases, including references to assumptions, to identify forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements in this press release are based on information available to us as of the date any such statements are made and we assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the following: factors that could affect our ability to achieve and manage our planned expansion, such as the availability of a sufficient number of suitable new restaurant sites and the availability of qualified employees; the uncertainty of our ability to achieve expected levels of comparable restaurant sales increases; the performance of new restaurants and their impact on existing restaurant sales; increases in the cost of food ingredients and other key supplies; the risk of food-borne illnesses and other health concerns about our food; the potential for increased labor costs or difficulty retaining qualified employees, including as a result of immigration enforcement activities; risks relating to our expansion into new markets; the impact of federal, state or local government regulations relating to our employees and the sale of food or alcoholic beverages; risks associated with our Food With Integrity strategy, including supply shortages; changes in consumer preferences, general economic conditions or consumer discretionary spending; the effect of competition in the restaurant industry; risks related to the ongoing development of our marketing strategy; the effects of continuing economic uncertainty on our business and on our suppliers, landlords and potential developers; risks relating to litigation; risks relating to our insurance coverage and self-insurance; our dependence on key personnel; security risks associated with the acceptance of electronic payment cards; the uncertainty of our ability to protect our name, logo and other proprietary information or the reputation of our brand; the potential effects of inclement weather; risks related to the tax treatment of our separation from McDonald's; and other risk factors described from time to time in our SEC reports, including our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, all of which are available on our Web site at chipotle.com.
 
 
 
 
 
 


