FILE:CMG/CMG-8K-20110210161730.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On February 10, 2011 Chipotle Mexican Grill, Inc. issued a press release announcing earnings and other financial results for its fiscal quarter and year ended December 31, 2010, and that management would review these results in a conference call at 4:30 p.m. Eastern Time on February 10, 2011.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Investor Relations:
Kate Giha
614-508-1303
Media:
Chris Arnold
303-222-5912
 
Denver, Colorado (Business Wire) February 10, 2011 Chipotle Mexican Grill, Inc. (NYSE: CMG) today reported financial results for its fourth quarter and full year ended December 31, 2010.
Highlights for the fourth quarter of 2010 as compared to the fourth quarter of 2009 include:
 
 
 
 
 
Highlights for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010 as compared to the prior year include:
 
 
 
 
 
"Our accomplishments in 2010 were manyopening our first restaurant in London, hitting the 1,000 restaurant milestone, and serving naturally raised barbacoa in all of our restaurantsjust to name a few. All of our accomplishments were made possible by remaining focused on our vision to change the way the world thinks about and eats fast food," said Founder, Chairman, and Co-CEO Steve Ells.
Results for the fourth quarter 2010
Revenue for the quarter was $482.5 million, up 24.5% from the prior year period. The growth in revenue was the result of new restaurants not in the comparable base and a 12.6% increase in comparable restaurant sales. Comparable restaurant sales growth was primarily driven by increased traffic in the quarter.
During the quarter Chipotle opened 62 new restaurants, bringing the total restaurant count to 1,084.
Restaurant level operating margin was 25.9% in the quarter, an increase of 140 basis points over the prior year period. The increase was primarily driven by the impact of comparable restaurant sales growth which was partially offset by increased food costs.
G&A costs were 6.0% of revenue, down 50 basis points from the prior year period. The decrease as a percent of revenue was driven by the impact of comparable restaurant sales growth.
Net income for the fourth quarter of 2010 was $46.4 million, or $1.47 per diluted share, compared to $31.6 million, or $0.99 per diluted share, in the fourth quarter of 2009.
Results for the full year ended December 31, 2010
Revenue for the full year of 2010 was $1.84 billion, up 20.9% from the prior year. The growth in revenue was the result of new restaurants not in the comparable base and a 9.4% increase in comparable restaurant sales. Comparable restaurant sales growth was primarily driven by increased traffic during the year.
For the full year, Chipotle opened 129 restaurants, including one restaurant in London and one in Toronto, Canada.
Restaurant level operating margin was 26.7% for the full year of 2010, an increase of 180 basis points over the prior year period. The increase was primarily driven by the impact of comparable restaurant sales growth.
G&A costs for the full year of 2010 were 6.5% of revenue, which was flat from the prior period. The benefit of comparable restaurant sales growth was offset by increased stock based compensation expense, the biennial All Managers' Conference, and hiring more employees as we grew.
Net income for the full year of 2010 was $179.0 million, or $5.64 per diluted share, compared to $126.8 million, or $3.95 per diluted share for 2009.
"Top performers, along with a culture of empowerment and striving to reach high standards come together naturally to produce great results. Our top performers demonstrate that they can run better restaurants, cook and serve better food, provide better service, increase throughput in their peak times and operate an efficient business. And our managers do all this while hiring and developing our future leaders. So of course we're pleased with the great results our high performing teams generate, but it's even more pleasing to know that it's our special people culture that's enabling these results," commented Monty Moran, Co-CEO.
Outlook
For 2011, management expects the following:
 
 
 
Definitions
The following definitions apply to these terms as used throughout this release:
represent the change in period-over-period sales for the comparable restaurant base. A restaurant becomes comparable in its 13
Comparable restaurant sales increases
th
full calendar month of operation.
refers to the average trailing 12-month sales for restaurants in operation for at least 12 full calendar months.
Average restaurant sales
represents total revenue less restaurant operating costs, expressed as a percent of total revenue.
Restaurant level operating margin
Conference Call
Chipotle will host a conference call to discuss fourth quarter and full year 2010 financial results today at 4:30 PM Eastern Time. The conference call can be accessed live over the phone by dialing 1-877-723-9523 or 1-719-325-4830 for international callers. A replay will be available one hour after the call and can be accessed by dialing 1-877-870-5176 or 1-858-384-5517 for international callers. The password is 1431566. The replay will be available until February 17, 2011. The call will be webcast live from the Company's website at chipotle.com under the Investor Relations section. An archived webcast will be available approximately one hour after the end of the call.
About Chipotle
Steve Ells, Founder, Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer, started Chipotle with the idea that food served fast did not have to be a typical fast food experience. Today, Chipotle continues to offer a focused menu of burritos, tacos, burrito bowls (a burrito without the tortilla) and salads made from fresh, high-quality raw ingredients, prepared using classic cooking methods and served in a distinctive atmosphere. Through our vision of, Chipotle is seeking better food not only from using fresh ingredients, but ingredients that are sustainably grown and naturally raised with respect for the animals, the land, and the farmers who produce the food. Chipotle opened its first restaurant in 1993 and currently operates over 1,000 restaurants. For more information, visit chipotle.com.
Food With Integrity
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements in this press release, including statements under the heading "Outlook" of our expected number of new restaurant openings, comparable restaurant sales increases and effective tax rate in 2011, are forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. We use words such as "anticipate", "believe", "could", "should", "estimate", "expect", "intend", "may", "predict", "project", "target", and similar terms and phrases, including references to assumptions, to identify forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements in this press release are based on information available to us as of the date any such statements are made and we assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the following: factors that could affect our ability to achieve and manage our planned expansion, such as the availability of a sufficient number of suitable new restaurant sites and the availability of qualified employees; the uncertainty of our ability to achieve expected levels of comparable restaurant sales increases; the performance of new restaurants and their impact on existing restaurant sales; increases in the cost of food ingredients and other key supplies; the risk of food-borne illnesses and other health concerns about our food; the potential for increased labor costs or difficulty retaining qualified employees, including as a result of immigration enforcement activities; risks relating to our expansion into new markets; the impact of federal, state or local government regulations relating to our employees and the sale of food or alcoholic beverages; risks associated with our Food With Integrity strategy, including supply shortages; changes in consumer preferences, general economic conditions or consumer discretionary spending; the effect of competition in the restaurant industry; risks related to the ongoing development of our marketing strategy; the effects of continuing economic uncertainty on our business and on our suppliers, landlords and potential developers; risks relating to litigation; risks relating to our insurance coverage and self-insurance; our dependence on key personnel; security risks associated with the acceptance of electronic payment cards; the uncertainty of our ability to protect our name, logo and other proprietary information or the reputation of our brand; the potential effects of inclement weather; risks related to the tax treatment of our separation from McDonald's; and other risk factors described from time to time in our SEC reports, including our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, all of which are available on the Investor Relations page of our Web site at chipotle.com.
 
 
 
 
 


