FILE:CMG/CMG-8K-20121018161307.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 18, 2012 Chipotle Mexican Grill, Inc. issued a press release announcing earnings and other financial results for its fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2012, and that management would review these results in a conference call at 4:30 p.m. Eastern time on October 18, 2012.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On October 18, 2012, Chipotle Mexican Grill, Inc. announced that its Board of Directors has authorized repurchases of Chipotle common stock with a total aggregate purchase price of $100 million, exclusive of commissions. This repurchase authorization is in addition to previously-announced repurchase authorizations totaling $400 million. The Board's authorization of the repurchase program may be modified, suspended, or discontinued at any time.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
PRESS RELEASE
Investor Relations:
Alex Spong
303-222-2552
 
Denver, Colorado (Business Wire) October 18, 2012 Chipotle Mexican Grill, Inc. (NYSE: CMG) today reported financial results for its third quarter ended September 30, 2012.
Highlights for the third quarter of 2012 as compared to the third quarter of 2011 include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Highlights for the nine months ended September 30, 2012 as compared to the prior year include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
"We have always believed that good food should be affordable and accessible to everyone. We're delighted that our continuing efforts to serve the very best food made from high quality ingredients raised with respect for the animals, the environment, and farmers and that is freshly prepared using classical cooking techniques is resonating with our customers. This is helping us realize our vision of changing the way people think about and eat fast food," said Steve Ells, Founder, Chairman and Co-CEO of Chipotle.
Third quarter 2012 results
Underlying sales transaction trends have remained stable over the past two quarters despite an uncertain economy and competitive environment.
Revenue for the quarter was $700.5 million, up 18.4% from the prior year period. The growth in revenue was the result of new restaurants not in the comparable base and a 4.8% increase in comparable restaurant sales. Comparable restaurant sales growth was primarily driven by the impact of increased traffic and to a lesser extent by menu price increases taken in the Pacific Region in 2012. Transaction trends were about the same as the second quarter, but comparable restaurant sales increases were impacted by the loss of 330 basis points from price increases that rolled off during the quarter.
During the quarter we opened 36 new restaurants, including two restaurants in London, England, bringing the total restaurant count to 1,350.
Restaurant level operating margin was 27.4% in the quarter, an increase of 70 basis points from the prior year period. The increase was primarily driven by leverage from higher average restaurant sales.
G&A costs were 6.9% of revenue, up 60 basis points from the prior year period. The increase as a percent of revenue was driven by the impact of holding the biennial All Managers' Conference in the third quarter, higher stock based compensation expense, and about $1 million in bad debt expense related to general contractor insolvencies, partially offset by the positive impact of comparable restaurant sales growth. The prior year quarter also benefited from a gain recognized from our deferred compensation plan.
Net income for the third quarter of 2012 was $72.3 million, or $2.27 per diluted share, compared to $60.4 million, or $1.90 per diluted share, in the third quarter of 2011.
Results for the nine months ended September 30, 2012
Revenue for the first nine months of 2012 was $2.03 billion, up 21.5% from the prior year period. The growth in revenue was the result of new restaurants not in the comparable base and an 8.3% increase in comparable restaurant sales. Comparable restaurant sales growth was primarily driven by increased traffic as well as the impact from menu price increases, most of which were taken in 2011.
During the first nine months of the year, we opened 123 new Chipotle restaurants, bringing the total restaurant count to 1,350.
Restaurant level operating margin was 28.0% for the first nine months, an increase of 210 basis points from the prior year period. The increase was primarily driven by the impact of leverage from higher restaurant sales.
G&A costs for the first nine months of 2012 were 6.9% of revenue, or 20 basis points higher than the prior year period. The increase as a percent of revenue was driven by higher stock based compensation expense and the biennial All Managers' Conference, partially offset by the positive impact of comparable restaurant sales growth.
Net income for the first nine months of 2012 was $216.6 million, or $6.80 per diluted share, compared to $157.5 million, or $4.96 per diluted share, in the first nine months of 2011.
Our Board of Directors has also approved the investment of up to an additional $100 million to repurchase shares of our common stock exclusive of commissions. This repurchase authorization, in addition to $34.7 million available as of September 30, 2012 for repurchases under previously-announced repurchase authorizations, may be modified, suspended, or discontinued at any time.
"Our strong people culture continues to drive our success in both attracting loyal customers and in delivering exceptional results. Our restaurant teams are ambitious and passionate about developing teams of top performers who have high standards and are dedicated to delivering the best dining experience possible to our guests," commented Co-CEO Monty Moran.
Outlook
For 2012, management expects the following:
 
 
 
For 2013, management expects the following:
 
 
 
Definitions
The following definitions apply to these terms as used throughout this release:
represent the change in period-over-period sales for the comparable restaurant base. A restaurant becomes comparable in its 13
Comparable restaurant sales
th
full calendar month of operation.
refers to the average trailing 12-month sales for restaurants in operation for at least 12 full calendar months.
Average restaurant sales
represents total revenue less restaurant operating costs, expressed as a percent of total revenue.
Restaurant level operating margin
Conference Call
Chipotle will host a conference call to discuss the third quarter 2012 financial results today at 4:30 PM Eastern Time. The conference call can be accessed live over the phone by dialing 1-877-741-4241 or for international callers by dialing 1-719-325-4933. A replay will be available one hour after the call and can be accessed by dialing 1-877-870-5176 or 1-858-384-5517 for international callers; the password is 8693134. The replay will be available until October 25, 2012. The call will be webcast live from the Company's website at chipotle.com under the investor relations section. An archived webcast will be available one hour after the end of the call.
About Chipotle
Steve Ells, Founder, Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer, started Chipotle with the idea that food served fast did not have to be a typical fast food experience. Today, Chipotle continues to offer a focused menu of burritos, tacos, burrito bowls (a burrito without the tortilla) and salads made from fresh, high-quality raw ingredients, prepared using classic cooking methods and served in a distinctive atmosphere. Through our vision of, Chipotle is seeking better food not only from using fresh ingredients, but ingredients that are sustainably grown and naturally raised with respect for the animals, the land, and the farmers who produce the food. A similarly focused people culture, with an emphasis on identifying and empowering top performing employees, enables us to develop future leaders from within. Chipotle opened its first restaurant in 1993 and currently operates over 1,350 restaurants. For more information, visit chipotle.com.
Food With Integrity
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements in this press release, including statements under the heading "Outlook" of our expected number of new restaurant openings, comparable restaurant sales increases, and effective tax rates in 2012 and 2013, are forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. We use words such as "anticipate", "believe", "could", "should", "estimate", "expect", "intend", "may", "predict", "project", "target", and similar terms and phrases, including references to assumptions, to identify forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements in this press release are based on information available to us as of the date any such statements are made and we assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the following: factors that could affect our ability to achieve and manage our planned expansion, such as the availability of a sufficient number of suitable new restaurant sites and the availability of qualified employees; the uncertainty of our ability to achieve expected levels of comparable restaurant sales increases; the performance of new restaurants and their impact on existing restaurant sales; increases in the cost of food ingredients and other key supplies; the risk of food-borne illnesses and other health concerns about our food; the potential for increased labor costs or difficulty retaining qualified employees, including as a result of immigration enforcement activities; risks relating to our expansion into new markets; the impact of federal, state or local government regulations relating to our employees and the sale of food or alcoholic beverages; risks associated with our Food With Integrity strategy, including supply shortages; changes in consumer preferences, general economic conditions or consumer discretionary spending; the effect of competition in the restaurant industry; the effects of continuing economic uncertainty on our business and on our suppliers, landlords and potential developers; the impact of increasing general and administrative expenses due to higher non-cash stock-based compensation expense and other increased expenses; risks relating to litigation; risks relating to our insurance coverage and self-insurance; our dependence on key personnel; security risks associated with the acceptance of electronic payment cards; the uncertainty of our ability to protect our name, logo and other proprietary information or the reputation of our brand; the potential effects of inclement weather; risks related to the tax treatment of our separation from McDonald's; and other risk factors described from time to time in our SEC reports, including our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, all of which are available on the Investor Relations page of our Web site at chipotle.com.
 
 
 
 
 


