FILE:PGR/PGR-8K-20021213134428.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 5.
Other Events and Regulation FD Disclosure.
On December 13, 2002, The Progressive Corporation (the "Company") issued a News Release containing certain selected underwriting results of the Company for the month of November 2002 and for year-to-date through November 2002 (the "News Release"). A copy of the News Release, which is hereby incorporated by reference into this Current Report on Form 8-K, is attached hereto as Exhibit 99(a).
On December 13, 2002, the Company's Board of Directors elected Bernadine Healy, M.D. to fill the vacancy on the Company's board. A copy of the news release announcing Dr. Healy's election to the board is incorporated by reference into this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99(b).
Item 7.
Financial Statements, ProForma Financial Information and Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Dated: December 13, 2002
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99(a) News Release dated December 13, 2002, containing certain selected underwriting results of The Progressive Corporation for the month of November 2002 and for year-to-date through November 2002
NEWS RELEASE [PROGRESSIVE LOGO] The Progressive Corporation COMPANY CONTACT: 6300 Wilson Mills Road Thomas A. King Mayfield Village, Ohio 44143 (440) 395-2260 http://www.progressive.com FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE MAYFIELD VILLAGE, OHIO - December 13, 2002 -- The Progressive Corporation today reported that for November 2002, the Company produced a GAAP combined ratio of 96.3. Net premiums written increased 30% to $711.2 million for the month, compared to $546.8 million last year. Net premiums earned for the month increased 29% to $762.4 million, compared to $588.8 million last year. During November, the Company established a $10 million reserve representing the Company's best estimate of its total exposure for its lawsuit relating to the classification of the Company's California claims employees as exempt workers for purpose of state wage and hour laws, which is reflected in the loss/LAE ratio, and accrued an additional $3.1 million to reflect the final claims made in the settlement of its several alternative commission program lawsuits, which is reflected in the Agent Personal Lines expense ratio. In addition, the Company reserved $7.8 million for its estimated exposure to guaranty fund assessments related to the Aries Insurance Company insolvency in Florida. Progressive's Personal Lines business units write insurance for private passenger automobiles and recreation vehicles. Progressive's Commercial Auto business unit writes insurance for automobiles and trucks owned by small businesses for primary liability, physical damage and other auto-related insurance coverages. The Company's other businesses primarily include writing lenders' collateral protection and directors' and officers' liability insurance and providing insurance-related services, primarily processing business for Commercial Auto Insurance Procedures (CAIP), which are state supervised plans serving the involuntary market. See "Supplemental Information" for November's results. The Progressive group of insurance companies ranks fourth in the nation for auto insurance, offering its products by phone at 1-800-PROGRESSIVE, online at progressive.com and through more than 30,000 independent agencies. The Progressive Corporation, the holding company, is publicly traded at NYSE:PGR.
The Progressive Corporation Supplemental Information November 2002 ($ in million)(unaudited) (a) Includes corporate actuarial adjustments based on routine analysis completed during the month. (b) Includes insurance for motorcycles, recreation vehicles, mobile homes, watercraft, snowmobiles, homeowners and similar items.

Exhibit 99(b) News Release dated December 13, 2002, announcing the election of Bernadine Healy, M.D. to the Board of Directors of The Progressive Corporation
For Immediate Release Contact: Leslie Kolleda Progressive, Public Relations 386-947-5158 BERNADINE HEALY ELECTED TO -------------------------- BOARD OF DIRECTORS AT PROGESSIVE -------------------------------- MAYFIELD VILLAGE, OHIO - December 13, 2002 -- The Board of Directors of The Progressive Corporation today elected Bernadine Healy, M.D. to fill the current vacancy on the Company's Board for the term ending on the date of the Annual Meeting of Shareholders in April 2005. Dr. Healy, 58, is the retired president of the American Red Cross and is currently a member of the President's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology. For six years, Dr. Healy was a consultant and commentator for CBS News. She is now Health, Medicine and Science columnist for US News & World Report. She also serves on the boards of Medtronic Inc., Ashland Inc. and Invacare Corp. Other board members include Milton Allen, consultant, director and trustee for profit and not-for-profit organizations; B. Charles Ames, partner at Clayton, Dubilier & Rice Inc.; Charles Davis, president and chief executive officer, MMC, Inc.; Stephen Hardis, Axcelis Technologies, Inc. chairman of the board; Janet Hill, vice president, Alexander & Associates, Inc.; Jeffrey Kelly, executive vice president and chief financial officer, National City Corp.; Philip Laskawy, former chairman and chief executive officer, Ernst & Young LLP; Peter Lewis, chairman of the board, The Progressive Corp.; Norman Matthews, consultant and former president of Federated Department Stores, Inc.; Glenn Renwick, president and chief executive officer, The Progressive Corp.; and Donald Shackelford, chairman, Fifth Third Bank, Central Ohio. The Progressive group of insurance companies ranks fourth in the nation for auto insurance, offering products by phone at 1-800-PROGRESSIVE, online at progressive.com and through more than 30,000 independent agencies. The Progressive Corporation, the holding company, is publicly traded at NYSE:PGR. ###



