FILE:PGR/PGR-8K-20021101124830.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: 
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 5.
Other Events and Regulation FD Disclosure.
     Commencing November 5, 2002, The Progressive Corporation ("Progressive" or the "Company") is expecting to implement a blackout on trading (the "Blackout") in the Company's Retirement Security Program, which includes the Company's 401(k) plan that is available to most employees (collectively, the "Plan"). The Blackout is an administrative requirement made necessary due to the changing of the Plan's trustee and the record-keeper to a new third-party provider. The Blackout is anticipated to last approximately two (2) weeks, although this time period may be extended if the procedures for changing to the new provider take longer than currently anticipated.
     During the Blackout, participants in the Plan will be prohibited from changing investment elections and from moving funds between the Plan's investment alternatives. This will include a prohibition against moving funds into or out of the Progressive Stock Fund, which invests primarily in the Company's stock. (Participants in the Plan are not required to invest any of their own contributions or the Company's matching contributions in the Progressive Stock Fund.) Normal bi-weekly contributions and company matching contributions will continue to be made into Plan investments, including the Progressive Stock Fund, according to each participant's existing investment elections. Participants were notified of the Blackout during the weeks leading up to the Blackout, and were provided guidance on how to take any investment actions that they deemed appropriate prior to the Blackout going into effect.
     In view of the Blackout affecting participants under the Plan, Progressive's Board of Directors has also directed that, commencing November 5, 2002, all Directors and Executive Officers of the Company shall refrain from transactions in the Company's stock both inside and outside the Plan (other than transactions that may be made automatically under an individual's pre-existing elections) so long as the Blackout remains in effect. Directors and Executive Officers were provided with advance notice of this limitation. When the Blackout is lifted and the participants' ability to trade under the Plan is restored, this limitation applicable to Directors and Executive Officers will automatically terminate.
Item 9.
Regulation FD Disclosure.
     On November 1, 2002, each of the Principal Executive Officer, Glenn M. Renwick, and the Principal Financial Officer, W. Thomas Forrester, of the Company made certifications pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, accompanying Progressive's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2002. A copy of each of these certifications is attached hereto as an Exhibit.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Dated: November 1, 2002
Table of Contents

 
          I, Glenn M. Renwick, President and Chief Executive Officer, of The Progressive Corporation (the "Company"), certify, pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:
Glenn M. Renwick President and Chief Executive Officer November 1, 2002
/s/ Glenn M. Renwick          

 
          I, W. Thomas Forrester, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, of The Progressive Corporation (the "Company"), certify, pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:
W. Thomas Forrester Vice President and Chief Financial Officer November 1, 2002
/s/ W. Thomas Forrester          



