FILE:PGR/PGR-8K-20021121155337.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 5.
Other Events.
     On November 18, 2002, The Progressive Corporation (the "Company") began an underwritten public offering (the "Offering") of $400 million aggregate principal amount of the Company's 6.25% Senior Notes due 2032, to be issued under the Company's previously filed Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-100674) (the "Registration Statement"). The Offering closed on November 21, 2002.
Item 7.
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     The following Exhibits are filed as part of this report and as an Exhibit to the Registration Statement:
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 1.1
November 18, 2002
The Progressive Corporation 6300 Wilson Mills Road Mayfield Village, Ohio 44143
Ladies and Gentlemen:
     The underwriters (the "Underwriters") named in Schedule A hereto, for which Goldman, Sachs & Co. and Credit Suisse First Boston Corporation are acting as managers (the "Managers"), understand that The Progressive Corporation, an Ohio corporation (the "Company"), proposes to issue and sell $400,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 6.25% Senior Notes due 2032 (the "Offered Securities").
     Subject to the terms and conditions set forth or incorporated by reference herein, the Company hereby agrees to sell and the Underwriters agree, severally, to purchase the principal amount of the Offered Securities set forth opposite each Underwriter's name in Schedule A, at a purchase price equal to 98.372% of the principal amount of the Offered Securities plus accrued interest on the Offered Securities from November 21, 2002 to the date of payment and delivery. The Offered Securities will be offered to the public at 99.247% of the principal amount, the underwriting discount will be .875%, the selling concession to dealers will be .500% and the reallowance concession will be .250%.
     The Underwriters will pay for such Offered Securities upon delivery thereof through the facilities of The Depository Trust Company on November 21, 2002 (the "Settlement Date"), as shall be designated by the Managers with the consent of the Company, which consent shall not unreasonably be withheld. Payment for the Offered Securities shall be made in U.S. dollars in immediately available funds.
 
     Except as otherwise set forth herein, all the provisions contained in the document entitled "The Progressive Corporation Underwriting Agreement Standard Provisions (Debt)" (the "Standard Provisions") dated October, 2002, a copy of which you have previously received, are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety and shall be deemed to be a part of this Agreement to the same extent as if such provisions had been set forth in full herein. The term "Manager" as used in the Standard Provisions shall, for purposes of this Agreement, mean Goldman, Sachs & Co. and Credit Suisse First Boston Corporation.
     The Company agrees, during the period beginning from the date hereof and continuing to and including the Settlement Date or such earlier time as the Managers may notify the Company, not to offer, sell, contract to sell or otherwise dispose of, except as provided hereunder, any securities of the Company that are substantially similar to the Offered Securities.
     Please confirm your agreement by having an authorized officer sign a copy of this Agreement in the space set forth below and returning the signed copy to the Manager and, in addition, have an authorized officer send us no later than 11:00 A.M. on November 19, 2002 by wire, telex or other written means, the following message:
     "We have entered into the Underwriting Agreement dated November 18, 2002 relating to the Offered Securities referred to therein by signing a copy of the Underwriting Agreement and returning the same or depositing the same in the mail to you."
 
 

 
Exhibit 4.6
     THIS FOURTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, dated as of November 21, 2002, between THE PROGRESSIVE CORPORATION, an Ohio corporation (the "") and STATE STREET BANK AND TRUST COMPANY, a Massachusetts trust company (""), in its capacity as Successor Trustee.
Issuer
SSB
     WHEREAS, the Issuer entered into an Indenture, dated as of September 15, 1993 (as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of March 15, 1996, the ""), with the First National Bank of Boston, in its capacity as Trustee, pursuant to which the Issuer may from time to time issue its unsecured debentures, notes and other evidences of indebtedness in one or more series; and
Indenture
     WHEREAS, the Issuer entered into a Supplemental Indenture, dated as of March 15, 1996, confirming the succession of SSB as trustee under the Indenture; and
     WHEREAS, the Issuer entered into a Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of February 26, 1999;
     WHEREAS, the Issuer entered into a Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 7, 2001;
     WHEREAS, Article Eight of the Indenture provides for various matters with respect to any series of Securities issued under the Indenture to be established in an indenture supplemental to the Indenture; and
     WHEREAS, Section 8.1(c) of the Indenture provides that the Issuer, when authorized by its Board of Directors, and the Trustee may from time to time and at any time enter into an
 
indenture supplemental to the Indenture to add on to the covenants of the Issuer certain further covenants, restrictions, conditions or provisions.
     NOW THEREFORE:
     In consideration of the premises and other good and valuable consideration, the parties hereto mutually covenant and agree as follows:
     SECTION 1.01. . This Fourth Supplemental Indenture constitutes an integral part of the Indenture.
Integral Part
     SECTION 1.02. . For all purposes of this Fourth Supplemental Indenture:
General Definitions
     (a)  capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have the meanings specified in the Indenture;
     (b)  all references herein to Articles and Sections, unless otherwise specified, refer to the corresponding Articles and Sections of this Fourth Supplemental Indenture; and
     (c)  the terms "", "", "" and other words of similar import refer to this Fourth Supplemental Indenture.
herein
hereof
hereunder
     SECTION 1.03. . The following definitions shall apply to this Fourth Supplemental Indenture:
Definitions
     "" means, at any date, the total assets appearing on the consolidated balance sheet of the Issuer and its consolidated subsidiaries as of the end of the then most recent fiscal quarter of the Issuer, prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, less the sum of (a) the total liabilities appearing on such balance sheet and (b) intangible assets. "" means, for the purposes of this definition, the value, as shown on or reflected in such balance sheet, of (i) all trade names, trademarks, licenses, patents, copyrights and goodwill, (ii) organizational costs and (iii) unamortized debt discount and expense, less unamortized premium.
Consolidated Tangible Net Worth
Intangible assets
     "" means the series of Securities designated by the Issuer as its "6.25% Senior Notes due 2032".
Designated Securities
 
     "" means (i) Progressive Casualty Insurance Company, an Ohio corporation, so long as it remains a subsidiary of the Issuer, (ii) any other consolidated subsidiary of the Issuer the assets of which constitute 10% or more of the Total Assets, and (iii) any subsidiary that is a successor to all or substantially all of the business or properties of any such subsidiary.
Designated Subsidiary
     "" means, at any date, the total assets appearing on the consolidated balance sheet of the Issuer and its consolidated subsidiaries as of the end of the then most recent fiscal quarter of the Issuer, prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Total Assets
     SECTION 2.01. . The Issuer will not, nor will it permit any Designated Subsidiary to, incur, issue, assume or guarantee any indebtedness for money borrowed if (i) that indebtedness is secured by a pledge, mortgage, deed of trust or other lien on any shares of stock or indebtedness of any Designated Subsidiary (a "lien"), and (ii) the aggregate amount of the indebtedness so secured exceeds an amount equal to 15% of the Issuer's Consolidated Tangible Net Worth, unless the Designated Securities are also secured equally and ratably with such other indebtedness. For purposes of this restriction, a "lien" will not include the pledge to, or deposit with, any state or provincial insurance regulatory authorities of any investment securities by the Issuer or any of its subsidiaries.
Limitation on Liens
     The foregoing restriction shall not apply to indebtedness secured by:
     (a)  Liens on any shares of stock or indebtedness of or acquired from a corporation merged or consolidated with or into, or otherwise acquired by, the Issuer or a Designated Subsidiary;
     (b)  Liens to secure indebtedness of a Designated Subsidiary to the Issuer or to another Designated Subsidiary, but only as long as such indebtedness is owned or held by the Issuer or a Designated Subsidiary; and
     (c)  Any extension, renewal or replacement (or successive extensions, renewals or replacements), in whole or in part, of any lien referred to in (a) and (b).
     SECTION 2.02. . The Issuer will not consolidate or merge with or into any other Person or Persons, or sell, convey or lease all or substantially all of its property to any other Person, unless:
Consolidation, Merger, Sale, Conveyance and Lease
     (a)  the Person formed by such consolidation, or into which the Issuer is merged or which acquires or leases all or substantially all of the property of the Issuer, is a corporation or
 
other entity organized under the laws of the United States, any state thereof or the District of Columbia, and such Person expressly assumes the Issuer's obligations under the Designated Securities and the Indenture; and
     (b)  immediately after giving effect to the transaction, no Event of Default exists.
     This restriction shall not apply if the Issuer is the Person that survives any such transaction.
     In the event of a conflict between any provision in this Section and any provision in Article 9 of the Indenture, Article 9 of the Indenture shall govern.
     SECTION 3.01. . The Issuer may at any time, without the consent of the holders of the Designated Securities, increase the principal amount of the Designated Securities.
Reopening of the Series
     SECTION 4.01. . The provisions of this Fourth Supplemental Indenture will be applicable solely to the Designated Securities.
Applicability of this Fourth Supplemental Indenture
     SECTION 4.02. . The Indenture, as supplemented by this Fourth Supplemental Indenture, is in all respects hereby adopted, ratified and confirmed.
Adoption, Ratification and Confirmation
     SECTION 4.03. . This Fourth Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed an original; and all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
     
SECTION 4.04.
Governing Law.
THIS FOURTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Fourth Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed and their respective corporate seals to be hereunto fixed and attested as of the day and year first written above.
 
     On this      th day of November, 2002, before me personally came Stephen D. Peterson, to me personally known, who, being by me duly sworn, did depose and say that he is a resident of Cuyahoga County, Ohio; that he is an officer of THE PROGRESSIVE CORPORATION, one of the corporations described in and which executed the above instrument; that he knows the corporate seal of said corporation; that the seal affixed to said instrument is such corporate seal; that it was so affixed by authority of the Board of Directors of said corporation, and that he signed his name thereto by like authority.
[Notarial Seal]
     On this      th day of November, 2002, before me personally came                                            , to me personally known, who, being by me duly sworn, did depose and say that he is a resident of Bristol County, Massachusetts; that he is an authorized officer of STATE STREET BANK AND TRUST COMPANY, one of the corporations described in and which executed the above instrument; that he knows the corporate seal of said corporation; that the seal affixed to said instruments is such corporate seal; that it was so affixed by authority of the Board of Directors of said corporation, and that he signed her name thereto by like authority.

 
Exhibit 4.7
     Unless this certificate is presented by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company, a New York corporation ("DTC") to the Issuer or its agent for registration of transfer, exchange or payment, and such certificate is registered in the name of Cede & Co., or in such other name as requested by an authorized representative of DTC, ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL, inasmuch as the registered owner hereof, Cede & Co., has an interest herein.
     THE PROGRESSIVE CORPORATION, an Ohio corporation (the "Issuer"), for value received, hereby promises to pay to CEDE & Co., c/o The Depository Trust Company, 55 Water Street, New York, New York 10041 or registered assigns, at the office or agency of the Issuer at the office of the Trustee in Boston, Massachusetts, the principal sum of FOUR HUNDRED MILLION DOLLARS ($400,000,000) on December 1, 2032, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment shall be legal tender for the payment of public and private debts, and to pay interest semiannually on June 1 and December 1 of each year, commencing on June 1, 2003, on said principal sum at said office or agency, in like coin or currency, at the rate per annum specified in the title of this Note, from the June 1 or the December 1, as the case may be, next preceding the date of this Note to which interest has been paid, unless the date hereof is a date to which interest has been paid, in which case from the date of this Note, or unless no interest has been paid on the Notes, in which case from November 21, 2002, until payment of said principal sum has been made or duly provided for; provided, that payment of interest may be made at the option of the Issuer by check mailed to the address of the person entitled thereto as such address shall appear on the Security Register. The interest so payable on any June 1 or December 1 will, subject to certain exceptions provided in the Indenture referred to on the reverse hereof, be paid to
 
the person in whose name this Note is registered at the close of business on May 15 or November 15, as the case may be, next preceding such June 1 or December 1.
     Reference is made to the further provisions of this Note set forth on the reverse hereof. Such further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as though fully set forth at this place.
     This Note shall not be valid or become obligatory for any purpose until the certificate of authentication hereon shall have been signed by the Trustee under the Indenture referred to on the reverse hereof.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, The Progressive Corporation has caused this instrument to be signed by its duly authorized officers and has caused its corporate seal to be affixed hereto or imprinted hereon.
     This is one of the Securities, of the series designated herein, referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
     This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of debentures, notes, bonds or other evidences of indebtedness of the Issuer (hereinafter called the "Securities") of the series hereinafter specified, all issued or to be issued under and pursuant to an indenture dated as of September 15, 1993, as heretofore supplemented and amended (herein called the "Indenture"), between the Issuer and State Street Bank and Trust Company, as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee"), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a description of the rights, limitations of rights, obligations, duties and immunities thereunder of the Trustee, the Issuer and the Holders of the Securities. The Securities may be issued in one or more series, which different series may be issued in various aggregate principal amounts, may mature at different times, may bear interest (if any) at different rates, may be subject to different redemption provisions (if any), may be subject to different sinking, purchase or analogous funds (if any) and may otherwise vary as in the Indenture provided. This Note is one of a series designated as the 6.25% Senior Notes Due 2032 of the Issuer, limited in initial aggregate principal amount to $400,000,000, subject to the right of the Issuer to reopen such series.
     In case an Event of Default, as defined in the Indenture, with respect to the 6.25% Senior Notes Due 2032 shall have occurred and be continuing, the principal hereof may be declared, and upon such declaration shall become, due and payable, in the manner, with the effect and subject to the conditions provided in the Indenture.
     The Indenture contains provisions permitting the Issuer and the Trustee, with the consent of the Holders of not less than 66-2/3% in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding (as defined in the Indenture) of all series to be affected (voting as one class), evidenced as in the Indenture provided, to execute supplemental indentures adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of the Indenture or of any supplemental indenture or modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each such series; provided, however, that no such supplemental indenture shall (i) extend the final maturity of any Security, or reduce the principal amount thereof, or reduce the rate or extend the time of payment of any interest thereon, or impair or affect the rights of any Holder to institute suit for the payment thereof, without the consent of the Holder of each Security so affected or (ii) reduce the aforesaid percentage of Securities, the Holders of which are required to consent to any such supplemental indenture, without the consent of the Holder of each
 
Security so affected. It is also provided in the Indenture that, with respect to certain defaults or Events of Default regarding the Securities of any series, prior to any declaration accelerating the maturity of such Securities, the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount Outstanding of the Securities of such series may on behalf of the Holders of all the Securities of such series waive any such past default or Event of Default and its consequences. The preceding sentence shall not, however, apply to a default in the payment of the principal of or premium, if any, or interest on any of the Securities. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Note (unless revoked as provided in the Indenture) shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders and owners of this Note and any Note which may be issued in exchange or substitution herefor, irrespective of whether or not any notation thereof is made upon this Note or such other Note.
     No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Issuer, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and interest on this Note in the manner, at the respective times, at the rate and in the coin or currency herein prescribed.
     The Notes are issuable in registered form without coupons in denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple of $1,000 at the office or agency of the Issuer at the office of the Trustee in Boston, Massachusetts, and in the manner and subject to the limitations provided in the Indenture, but without the payment of any service charge. Notes may be exchanged for a like aggregate principal amount of Notes of other authorized denominations.
     The Notes of the series designated as the 6.25% Senior Notes due 2032 are subject to redemption upon not more than 60 or less than 30 days' notice by mail, in whole at any time or in part from time to time at the option of the Issuer on any date (a "Redemption Date"), at a redemption price equal to the accrued and unpaid interest on the principal amount being redeemed to the redemption date plus the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed and (ii) the sum of the present values of the Remaining Scheduled Payments (as defined below) of the Notes to be redeemed, discounted to the redemption date, on a semiannual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months), at rate equal to the Treasury Rate (defined below), plus 20 basis points.
     "Remaining Scheduled Payments" means, with respect to any redemption, the remaining scheduled payments of the principal and interest that would be due after the redemption date of a Note if such Note were not redeemed and were held until maturity. However, if the redemption date is not a scheduled interest payment date, the amount of
 
the next succeeding scheduled interest payment on such Note will be reduced by the amount of interest accrued on such Note to such redemption date.
     "Treasury Rate" means, with respect to any redemption, an annual rate equal to the semiannual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue (as defined below), assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for the redemption date. The semiannual equivalent yield to maturity will be computed as of the third business day immediately preceding the redemption date.
     "Comparable Treasury Issue" means, with respect to any redemption, the United States Treasury security selected by Credit Suisse First Boston or an affiliate as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of such Notes.
     "Comparable Treasury Price" means, with respect to any redemption, the average of three Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations (as defined below) obtained by the Trustee for the redemption date.
     "Reference Treasury Dealer" means, with respect to any redemption, Credit Suisse First Boston (so long as it continues to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer) and any two other primary U.S. Government securities dealers chosen by the Issuer. If Credit Suisse First Boston ceases to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer, the Issuer will appoint in its place another nationally recognized investment banking firm that is a primary U.S. Government securities dealer.
     "Reference Treasury Dealer Quotation" means, with respect to any redemption, the average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Trustee by a Reference Treasury Dealer at 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on the third business day preceding the redemption date.
     In the event of redemption of this Note in part only, a new Note or Notes of this series and of like tenor for the unredeemed portion hereof will be issued in the name of the Holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof.
     Upon due presentment for registration of transfer of this Note at the office or agency of the Issuer at the office of the Trustee in Boston, Massachusetts, a new Note or
 
Notes of authorized denominations for an equal aggregate principal amount will be issued to the transferee in exchange therefor, subject to the limitations provided in the Indenture, without charge except for any tax or other governmental charge imposed in connection therewith.
     The Issuer, the Trustee and any authorized agent of the Issuer or the Trustee may deem and treat the registered Holder hereof as the absolute owner of this Note (whether or not this Note shall be overdue and notwithstanding any notation of ownership or other writing hereon), for the purpose of receiving payment of, or on account of, the principal hereof and, subject to the provisions on the face hereof, interest hereon, and for all other purposes, and neither the Issuer nor the Trustee nor any authorized agent of the Issuer or the Trustee shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
     No recourse under or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement of the Issuer in the Indenture or any indenture supplemental thereto or in any Note, or because of the creation of any indebtedness represented thereby, shall be had against any incorporator, shareholder, officer or director, as such, of the Issuer or of any successor corporation, either directly or through the Issuer or any successor corporation, under any rule of law, statute or constitutional provision or by the enforcement of any assessment or by any legal or equitable proceeding or otherwise, all such liability being expressly waived and released by the acceptance hereof and as part of the consideration for the issue hereof.
     Terms used herein which are defined in the Indenture shall have the respective meanings assigned thereto in the Indenture.
 
     , the undersigned hereby sell(s), assign(s) and transfer(s) unto
FOR VALUE RECEIVED
the within Note and all rights thereunder, hereby irrevocably constituting and appointing
attorney to transfer said Note on the books of the Issuer, with full power of substitution in the premises.



