FILE:PGR/PGR-8K-20031022165312.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
 
 
Item 12.
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 22, 2003, The Progressive Corporation (the "Company") issued a News Release containing financial results of the Company for the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2003 (the "News Release"). A copy of the News Release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

 
 
[LOGO]
PROGRESSIVE
NEWS RELEASE
The Company will hold a one-hour conference call on Thursday, October 23, 2003, beginning at 8:00 a.m. eastern time. At that time, the Company will discuss results and address questions. Visit the Company's Web site at http://www.progressive.com/investors/events.asp to register and receive the details for the teleconference or webcast. An instant replay of the conference call will be available until November 7, 2003 by calling 1-800-688-2794 or until October 24, 2004 on our Web site at http://www.progressive.com/investors/archive.asp.
MAYFIELD VILLAGE, OHIO October 22, 2003 The Progressive Corporation today reported third quarter 2003 net income of $319.8 million, or $1.45 per share, compared to $178.5 million, or $.80 per share, in the third quarter last year. Included in net income are net realized losses on securities of $4.3 million, or $.01 per share, for the third quarter 2003, and $23.7 million, or $.07 per share, for the same period last year. In addition, 2003 net income includes $30.8 million, or $.09 per share, of estimated interest income related to an income tax refund the Company will receive, as previously disclosed.
     Net premiums written and earned increased 25% and 26% to $3,104.9 million and $2,927.8 million, respectively, as compared to the third quarter last year. During the third quarter 2003, the Company produced a GAAP combined ratio of 87.9, compared to 91.9 in the same period last year. The Company had catastrophe losses of $13.3 million, $.04 per share or .5 points, including $5.7 million attributable to hurricane Isabel, for the third quarter 2003, compared to $5.6 million, $.02 per share or .2 points, in the same period last year. Recurring investment income was $115.5 million before taxes and $86.3 million after taxes, compared to $116.6 million before taxes and $83.0 million after taxes for the third quarter 2002. See the "Operations Summary" for further information.
     Progressive's Personal Lines business units write insurance for private passenger automobiles and recreation vehicles. Progressive's Commercial Auto business unit writes primary liability, physical damage and other auto-related insurance for automobiles and trucks owned by small businesses. The Company's other businesses principally include writing lenders' collateral protection and directors' and officers' liability insurance and providing insurance-related services, primarily processing business for Commercial Auto Insurance Procedures (CAIP), which are state supervised plans serving the involuntary market. See "Supplemental Information" for third quarter 2003 underwriting results.
     During the third quarter 2003, the Company repurchased 1,526,507 of its Common Shares at an average cost of $69.06 per share.
     The Progressive group of insurance companies ranks third in the nation for auto insurance based on premiums written, offering its products by phone at 1-800-PROGRESSIVE, online at progressive.com and through more than 30,000 independent insurance agencies. The Progressive Corporation, the holding company, is publicly traded at NYSE:PGR.
 
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Statements in this release and during the Company's conference call that are not historical fact are forward-looking statements that are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events and results to differ materially from those discussed herein. These risks and uncertainties include, without limitation, uncertainties related to estimates, assumptions and projections generally; inflation and changes in economic conditions (including changes in interest rates and financial markets); the effectiveness of the Company's advertising campaigns; the accuracy and adequacy of the Company's pricing methodologies; pricing competition and other initiatives by competitors; ability to obtain regulatory approval for requested rate changes and the timing thereof; legislative and regulatory developments; the outcome of litigation pending against the Company; weather conditions (including the severity and frequency of storms, hurricanes, snowfalls, hail and winter conditions); changes in driving patterns and loss trends; acts of war and terrorist activities; court decisions and trends in litigation and health care and auto repair costs; and other matters described from time to time by the Company in releases and publications, and in periodic reports and other documents filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, investors should be aware that generally accepted accounting principles prescribe when a company may reserve for particular risks, including litigation exposures. Accordingly, results for a given reporting period could be significantly affected if and when a reserve is established for a major contingency. Reported results may therefore appear to be volatile in certain accounting periods.
 
NM = Not Meaningful
The Company is reporting total return yields to more accurately reflect the management of the portfolio and evaluation of the investment results. The FTE total return includes recurring investment income, net realized gains (losses) on securities and changes in unrealized appreciation/depreciation on investment securities.
Note:
 
      The interest earned on the Company's income tax refund is included in the statutory expense ratio to comply with statutory reporting requirements and favorably impacted the third quarter and year-to-date 2003 ratios by 1.0 points and .3 points, respectively.
1
 
 



