FILE:PGR/PGR-8K-20041013163122.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
[  ] Written communication pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[  ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 13, 2004, The Progressive Corporation and Subsidiaries (the "Company") issued a News Release containing financial results of the Company for the month, quarter and year-to-date periods ended September 2004 (the "News Release"). A copy of the News Release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Dated: October 13, 2004
 

 
Exhibit 99
MAYFIELD VILLAGE, OHIO  October 13, 2004  The Progressive Corporation today reported the following results for September 2004:
NM = Not Meaningful
See the "Income Statement" for further month and year-to-date information. Detailed quarterly information will be available in the Company's third quarter 2004 Form 10-Q, which the Company expects to file on or about November 9, 2004.
     Progressive's Personal Lines business units write insurance for private passenger automobiles and recreation vehicles. Progressive's Commercial Auto business unit writes primary liability, physical damage and other auto-related insurance for automobiles and trucks owned by small businesses. The Company's other businesses principally include writing directors' and officers' liability insurance and managing the Company's run-off businesses. See "Supplemental Information" for the month and year-to-date results.
 
See the Monthly Commentary at the end of this release for additional discussion. Also see Note 1 to the Company's 2003 audited consolidated financial statements included in the Company's 2003 Annual Report, which can be found at progressive.com/annualreport, for a description of the Company's reporting and accounting policies.
1
The following table sets forth the total return on investments for the month:
 
NM = Not Meaningful
Amount represents estimated interest earned through September 2003 on an income tax refund the Company received in 2004.
1
The following table sets forth the total return on investments for the year-to-date period:
 
Represents adjustments solely based on the Company's corporate actuarial review.
1
In September 2004, the Company incurred favorable "other development" in its run-off businesses.
2
 
Represents adjustments solely based on the Company's corporate actuarial review.
1
During September, the insurance subsidiaries paid cash dividends, net of capital contributions, of $979.6 million to the parent company.
2
Includes insurance for motorcycles, recreation vehicles, mobile homes, watercraft, snowmobiles, homeowners and similar items.
3
 
Pursuant to SFAS 113, "Accounting and Reporting for Reinsurance of Short-Duration and Long-Duration Contracts," loss and loss adjustment expense reserves are stated gross of reinsurance recoverables on unpaid losses of $251.7 million.
1
Amounts include net unsettled security acquisitions of $101.3 million.
2
 
  
Monthly Commentary
The Progressive group of insurance companies ranks third in the nation for auto insurance based on premiums written. The companies that offer insurance directly (by phone at 1-800-PROGRESSIVE and online at progressive.com) market their products and services through the Progressive Direct brand, while the companies that offer insurance through more than 30,000 independent agencies and insurance brokers in the U.S. market their products and services through the Drive Insurance from Progressive brand. The Common Shares of The Progressive Corporation, the holding company, are publicly traded at NYSE:PGR.
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Statements in this release that are not historical fact are forward-looking statements that are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events and results to differ materially from those discussed herein. These risks and uncertainties include, without limitation, uncertainties related to estimates, assumptions and projections generally; inflation and changes in economic conditions (including changes in interest rates and financial markets); the accuracy and adequacy of the Company's pricing and loss reserving methodologies; pricing competition and other initiatives by competitors; the Company's ability to obtain regulatory approval for requested rate changes and the timing thereof; the effectiveness of the Company's advertising campaigns; legislative and regulatory developments; the outcome of litigation pending or that may be filed against the Company; weather conditions (including the severity and frequency of storms, hurricanes, snowfalls, hail and winter conditions); changes in driving patterns and loss trends; acts of war and terrorist activities; the Company's ability to maintain the uninterrupted operation of its facilities, systems (including information technology systems) and business functions; court decisions and trends in litigation and health care and auto repair costs; and other matters described from time to time by the Company in releases and publications, and in periodic reports and other documents filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, investors should be aware that generally accepted accounting principles prescribe when a company may reserve for particular risks, including litigation exposures. Accordingly, results for a given reporting period could be significantly affected if and when a reserve is established for a major contingency. Reported results, therefore, may appear to be volatile in certain accounting periods.


