FILE:PGR/PGR-8K-20041015143813.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Table of Contents
On October 15, 2004, the Board of Directors of The Progressive Corporation (the "Company") elected Patrick H. Nettles, Ph.D., to fill the current vacancy on the Company's Board for the term ending on the date of the Company's Annual Meeting of Shareholders in 2007. A copy of the Company's press release announcing Dr. Nettles' appointment is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.
There are no arrangements or understandings between Dr. Nettles and any other person pursuant to which Dr. Nettles was elected as a Director, other than the Company's compensation arrangements and plans for non-employee Directors and the Company's other policies and procedures which are generally applicable to Directors.
At the time of his election, Dr. Nettles was not appointed to any committee of the Board of Directors, and there is no current expectation as to which committee(s) Dr. Nettles might ultimately be appointed by the Board.
Since the beginning of the Company's last fiscal year, the Company and its subsidiaries have not engaged in any transactions, and there are not any currently proposed transactions, or series of similar transactions, in which Dr. Nettles had a direct or indirect material interest.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
MAYFIELD VILLAGE, OHIO  October 15, 2004  The Board of Directors of The Progressive Corporation today elected Patrick H. Nettles, Ph.D., to fill the current vacancy on the Company's Board for the term ending on the date of the Annual Meeting of Shareholders in April 2007. Dr. Nettles, 60, is a founder of CIENA Corporation, a provider of networking equipment primarily to telecommunications service providers, and currently serves as the Executive Chairman of its Board of Directors. In addition, he serves as President of CIENA Government Services, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of CIENA that is focused on government applications of CIENA's products. Dr. Nettles received his B.S. in physics with highest honors from The Georgia Institute of Technology in 1964 and was awarded his Ph.D. in physics from The California Institute of Technology in 1970.
     The Board also declared a quarterly dividend of $.03 per Common Share payable December 31, 2004, to shareholders of record at the close of business on December 10, 2004.
     The Progressive group of insurance companies ranks third in the nation for auto insurance based on premiums written. The companies that offer insurance directly (by phone at 1-800-PROGRESSIVE and online at progressive.com) market their products and services through the Progressive Direct brand, while the companies that offer insurance through more than 30,000 independent agencies and insurance brokers in the U.S. market their products and services through the Drive Insurance from Progressive brand. The Common Shares of The Progressive Corporation, the holding company, are publicly traded at NYSE:PGR.


