FILE:PGR/PGR-8K-20040213141958.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 9. .
Regulation FD Disclosure
On February 13, 2004, The Progressive Corporation (the "Company") issued a News Release containing financial results of the Company for the month of January 2004 (the "News Release"). A copy of the News Release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Dated: February 13, 2004
Table of Contents

 
 
MAYFIELD VILLAGE, OHIO   February 13, 2004  The Progressive Corporation today reported the following results for January 2004:
See the "Income Statement" for further information.
     Progressive's Personal Lines business units write insurance for private passenger automobiles and recreation vehicles. Progressive's Commercial Auto business unit writes primary liability, physical damage and other auto-related insurance for automobiles and trucks owned by small businesses. The Company's other businesses principally include writing directors' and officers' liability insurance and managing the wind down of the Company's lender's collateral protection program. See "Supplemental Information" for January's results.
 
See the Company's annual report for a complete description of its reporting and accounting policies.
1
The following table sets forth the total return for the month ended January 31:
2
 
Represents reserve adjustments solely based on the Company's corporate actuarial review.
(a)
Includes insurance for motorcycles, recreation vehicles, mobile homes, watercraft, snowmobiles, homeowners and similar items.
(b)
 
Pursuant to SFAS 113, "Accounting and Reporting for Reinsurance of Short-Duration and Long-Duration Contracts," loss and loss adjustment expense reserves are stated gross of reinsurance recoverables on unpaid losses of $234.1 million at January 31, 2004.
1
Amounts include net unsettled security acquisitions of $916.8 million at January 31, 2004, including repurchase commitment transactions.
2
 
Monthly Commentary
The Progressive group of insurance companies ranks third in the nation for auto insurance, offering its products by phone at 1-800-PROGRESSIVE, online at progressive.com and through more than 30,000 independent agencies and insurance brokers. The Common Shares of The Progressive Corporation, the holding company, are publicly traded at NYSE:PGR.
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Statements in this release that are not historical fact are forward-looking statements that are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events and results to differ materially from those discussed herein. These risks and uncertainties include, without limitation, uncertainties related to estimates, assumptions and projections generally; inflation and changes in economic conditions (including changes in interest rates and financial markets); the accuracy and adequacy of the Company's pricing and loss reserving methodologies; pricing competition and other initiatives by competitors; the Company's ability to obtain regulatory approval for requested rate changes and the timing thereof; the effectiveness of the Company's advertising campaigns; legislative and regulatory developments; the outcome of litigation pending or that may be filed against the Company; weather conditions (including the severity and frequency of storms, hurricanes, snowfalls, hail and winter conditions); changes in driving patterns and loss trends; acts of war and terrorist activities; court decisions and trends in litigation and health care and auto repair costs; and other matters described from time to time by the Company in releases and publications, and in periodic reports and other documents filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, investors should be aware that generally accepted accounting principles prescribe when a company may reserve for particular risks, including litigation exposures. Accordingly, results for a given reporting period could be significantly affected if and when a reserve is established for a major contingency. Reported results may therefore appear to be volatile in certain accounting periods.



