FILE:PGR/PGR-8K-20040414165630.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
 
     
6300 Wilson Mills Road, Mayfield Village, Ohio        44143
(Address of principal executive offices)                  (Zip Code)
     
 
Item 12.
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 14, 2004, The Progressive Corporation and Subsidiaries (the "Company") issued a News Release containing financial results of the Company for the month and year-to-date period ended March 2004 (the "News Release"). A copy of the News Release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99 ---------- News Release dated April 14, 2004, containing financial results of The Progressive Corporation and Subsidiaries for the month and year-to-date period ended March 2004
[PROGRESSIVE LOGO] NEWS RELEASE - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- The Progressive Corporation COMPANY CONTACT: 6300 Wilson Mills Road Thomas A. King Mayfield Village, Ohio 44143 (440) 395-2260 http://www.progressive.com - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE MAYFIELD VILLAGE, OHIO -- April 14, 2004 -- The Progressive Corporation today reported the following results for March 2004: See the "Income Statement" for further information. Progressive's Personal Lines business units write insurance for private passenger automobiles and recreation vehicles. Progressive's Commercial Auto business unit writes primary liability, physical damage and other auto-related insurance for automobiles and trucks owned by small businesses. The Company's other businesses principally include writing directors' and officers' liability insurance and managing the wind down of the Company's lender's collateral protection program. See "Supplemental Information" for the month and year-to-date results.
THE PROGRESSIVE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES INCOME STATEMENT MARCH 2004 (millions - except per share amounts) (unaudited) (1) See the Monthly Commentary at the end of this release for additional discussion. Also see the Company's 2003 Annual Report at progressive.com/annualreport for a complete description of its reporting and accounting policies. The following table sets forth the total return for the month:
THE PROGRESSIVE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES INCOME STATEMENTS MARCH 2004 (millions - except per share amounts) (unaudited) NM = Not Meaningful - ------------------------------------------ The following table sets forth the total return for the year-to-date period:
THE PROGRESSIVE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION MARCH 2004 ($ in millions)(unaudited) (a) Represents adjustments solely based on the Company's corporate actuarial review.
THE PROGRESSIVE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION MARCH 2004 ($ in millions)(unaudited) (a) Represents adjustments solely based on the Company's corporate actuarial review. (b) Includes insurance for motorcycles, recreation vehicles, mobile homes, watercraft, snowmobiles, homeowners and similar items.
THE PROGRESSIVE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES BALANCE SHEET AND OTHER INFORMATION (millions- except per share amounts) (unaudited)
Common Shares outstanding 217.5 Shares repurchased - March .2 Average cost per share $86.92 Book value per share $25.48 Return on average shareholders' equity 29.1% Net unrealized pre-tax gains on investments $720.7 Debt to total capital ratio 18.9%
(1) Pursuant to SFAS 113, "Accounting and Reporting for Reinsurance of Short-Duration and Long-Duration Contracts," loss and loss adjustment expense reserves are stated gross of reinsurance recoverables on unpaid losses of $242.2 million. (2) Amounts include net unsettled security acquisitions of $62.0 million.
MONTHLY COMMENTARY - - Continued low accident frequency contributed to the Company's strong profitability for March. Forty-seven of the 49 markets in which the Company writes Personal Lines business were profitable for the month; for the year, all markets are profitable. - - Unfavorable reserve development increased the combined ratio 3.6 points for March and .7 points year-to-date. The unfavorable development, which related to personal auto, was a function of several items, including: $10 million development in both case and incurred but not reported (IBNR) property damage reserves; approximately $10 million of lower limit (less than $100 thousand) bodily injury IBNR emergence; a $5 million accrual for a pending class action lawsuit settlement; and almost $5 million of personal injury protection (PIP) development in three PIP states. - - Policies in force growth remains strong, supported by strong renewals. In Personal Lines, 17 markets have year-to-date net premiums written growth of 20% or greater; these markets represent 27% of the total Personal Lines premiums. Thirteen states (36% of total Personal Lines) grew less than 10%. - - The Company will consider actions in selected states to maintain an attractive combination of profit and growth. - - In general, the Company did not see any significant changes in customer retention. - - At March month-end, the net unrealized gains in the investment portfolio were $720.7 million, an increase of $77.3 million from year-end 2003. The pretax recurring investment book yield of the portfolio was 4.1% for the month and 3.8% year-to-date. In the fixed-income portfolio, the duration was 3.0 years and the weighted average credit quality was AA+. The Progressive group of insurance companies ranks third in the nation for auto insurance based on premiums written, offering its products by phone at 1-800-PROGRESSIVE, online at progressive.com and through more than 30,000 independent agencies and insurance brokers. The Common Shares of The Progressive Corporation, the holding company, are publicly traded at NYSE:PGR. Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Statements in this release that are not historical fact are forward-looking statements that are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events and results to differ materially from those discussed herein. These risks and uncertainties include, without limitation, uncertainties related to estimates, assumptions and projections generally; inflation and changes in economic conditions (including changes in interest rates and financial markets); the accuracy and adequacy of the Company's pricing and loss reserving methodologies; pricing competition and other initiatives by competitors; the Company's ability to obtain regulatory approval for requested rate changes and the timing thereof; the effectiveness of the Company's advertising campaigns; legislative and regulatory developments; the outcome of litigation pending or that may be filed against the Company; weather conditions (including the severity and frequency of storms, hurricanes, snowfalls, hail and winter conditions); changes in driving patterns and loss trends; acts of war and terrorist activities; court decisions and trends in litigation and health care and auto repair costs; and other matters described from time to time by the Company in releases and publications, and in periodic reports and other documents filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, investors should be aware that generally accepted accounting principles prescribe when a company may reserve for particular risks, including litigation exposures. Accordingly, results for a given reporting period could be significantly affected if and when a reserve is established for a major contingency. Reported results therefore may appear to be volatile in certain accounting periods.


