FILE:PGR/PGR-8K-20050217140023.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communication pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
On February 17, 2005, the Company issued a News Release containing financial results of the Company for the month of January 2005 (the "News Release"). A copy of the News Release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

 
MAYFIELD VILLAGE, OHIO  February 17, 2005  The Progressive Corporation today reported the following results for January 2005:
See the "Income Statement" for further information.
     The Company offers insurance to personal and commercial auto drivers throughout the United States. The Company's Personal Lines business units write insurance for private passenger automobiles and recreation vehicles. The Company's Commercial Auto business unit writes primary liability, physical damage and other auto-related insurance for automobiles and trucks owned by small businesses. See "Supplemental Information" for January's results.
 
See the Monthly Commentary at the end of this release for additional discussion. Also see Note 1 to the Company's 2003 audited consolidated financial statements included in the Company's 2003 Annual Report, which can be found at progressive.com/annualreport, for a description of the Company's reporting and accounting policies.
1
The following table sets forth the total return on investments for the month:
 
Amounts include results for the Company's "other businesses," which primarily include professional liability insurance for community banks and the Company's run-off businesses. The other businesses generated net premiums written of $2.8 million, net premiums earned of $2.7 million and an underwriting profit of $1.2 million for the month.
1
Represents adjustments solely based on the Company's corporate actuarial review.
2
Includes insurance for motorcycles, recreation vehicles, mobile homes, watercraft, snowmobiles and similar items.
3
 
Pursuant to SFAS 113, "Accounting and Reporting for Reinsurance of Short-Duration and Long-Duration Contracts," loss and loss adjustment expense reserves are stated gross of reinsurance recoverables on unpaid losses of $341.0 million.
1
Amounts include net unsettled security acquisitions, including repurchase commitments, of $278.7 million.
2
 
Monthly Commentary
The Progressive group of insurance companies ranks third in the nation for auto insurance based on premiums written. The companies that offer insurance directly (by phone at 1-800-PROGRESSIVE and online at progressive.com) market their products and services through the Progressive Direct brand, while the companies that offer insurance through more than 30,000 independent agencies in the U.S. market their products and services through the Drive Insurance from Progressive brand. The Common Shares of The Progressive Corporation, the holding company, are publicly traded at NYSE:PGR. More information can be found at progressive.com.
SM
SM
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Statements in this release that are not historical fact are forward-looking statements that are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events and results to differ materially from those discussed herein. These risks and uncertainties include, without limitation, uncertainties related to estimates, assumptions and projections generally; inflation and changes in economic conditions (including changes in interest rates and financial markets); the accuracy and adequacy of the Company's pricing and loss reserving methodologies; pricing competition and other initiatives by competitors; the Company's ability to obtain regulatory approval for requested rate changes and the timing thereof; the effectiveness of the Company's advertising campaigns; legislative and regulatory developments; disputes relating to intellectual property rights; the outcome of litigation pending or that may be filed against the Company; weather conditions (including the severity and frequency of storms, hurricanes, snowfalls, hail and winter conditions); changes in driving patterns and loss trends; acts of war and terrorist activities; the Company's ability to maintain the uninterrupted operation of its facilities, systems (including information technology systems) and business functions; court decisions and trends in litigation and health care and auto repair costs; and other matters described from time to time by the Company in releases and publications, and in periodic reports and other documents filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, investors should be aware that generally accepted accounting principles prescribe when a company may reserve for particular risks, including litigation exposures. Accordingly, results for a given reporting period could be significantly affected if and when a reserve is established for one or more contingencies. Reported results, therefore, may appear to be volatile in certain accounting periods.


