FILE:PGR/PGR-8K-20050317113103.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01 Entry into Material Definitive Agreements
Effective March 17, 2005, The Progressive Corporation Executive Deferred Compensation Plan (2003 Amendment and Restatement), as amended, has been further amended by a Third Amendment thereto. A copy of the Third Amendment is attached hereto as Exhibit 10(A).
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
On March 17, 2005, the Company issued a News Release containing financial results of the Company for the month and year-to-date periods ended February 2005 (the "News Release"). A copy of the News Release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit No. 10(A)
               , The Progressive Corporation Executive Deferred Compensation Plan is currently maintained pursuant to a 2003 Amendment and Restatement and the First and Second Amendments thereto ("Plan"); and
WHEREAS
               , it is deemed desirable to amend the Plan further;
WHEREAS
               , the Plan is hereby amended in the respects hereinafter set forth:
NOW, THEREFORE
                        "4.2 .
Investment of Accounts
All credits to a Deferral Account of a Participant shall be deemed to be invested in such Investment Fund or Funds as the Participant shall elect from time to time in accordance with Article 5. The number of shares of Stock to be credited to a Participant's Account by virtue of a Participant's initial election to invest a portion of a Deferral in the Company Stock Fund shall be determined on the date of the Deferral in accordance with such procedures as the Committee shall establish, based on the weighted average price paid for all shares of Stock purchased by the Trustee and deposited in the Trust on that date pursuant to Article 6. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Section 4.2, (i) all credits to a Deferral Account of a Participant relating to a deferred Restricted Stock Award granted prior to March 17, 2005, shall be deemed to be invested in the Company Stock Fund until six (6) months and one (1) day following the expiration of the restrictions applicable to such Award, unless otherwise determined by the Committee at or after the deferral of such Award, and, thereafter, the preceding provisions of this Section 4.2 shall apply, and (ii) all credits to a Deferral Account of a Participant relating to a deferred Restricted Stock Award granted on or after March 17, 2005, shall be deemed to be invested in the Company Stock Fund until the balance of such Deferral Account has been distributed or withdrawn in accordance with Article 3."
"Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Section 5.4, each Deferral of a Restricted Stock Award granted on or after March 17, 2005 shall be deemed to be invested in the Company Stock Fund until the Deferral Account to which such Deferral has been credited has been distributed or withdrawn in accordance with Article 3 of this Plan."
               , the undersigned has hereunto caused this Amendment to be executed by its duly authorized representative effective as of the date set forth above.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF

 
Exhibit 99
MAYFIELD VILLAGE, OHIO  March 17, 2005  The Progressive Corporation today reported the following results for February 2005:
See the "Income Statement" for further month and year-to-date information.
     The Company offers insurance to personal and commercial auto drivers throughout the United States. The Company's Personal Lines business units write insurance for private passenger automobiles and recreation vehicles. The Company's Commercial Auto business unit writes primary liability, physical damage and other auto-related insurance for automobiles and trucks owned by small businesses. See "Supplemental Information" for February's results.
 
The following table sets forth the total return on investments for the month:
 
NM = Not Meaningful
The following table sets forth the total return on investments for the year-to-date period:
 
NM = Not Meaningful
 
NM = Not Meaningful
 
 
Monthly Commentary
The Progressive group of insurance companies ranks third in the nation for auto insurance based on premiums written. The companies that offer insurance directly (by phone at 1-800-PROGRESSIVE and online at progressive.com) market their products and services through the Progressive Direct brand, while the companies that offer insurance through more than 30,000 independent agencies in the U.S. market their products and services through the Drive Insurance from Progressive brand. The Common Shares of The Progressive Corporation, the holding company, are publicly traded at NYSE:PGR. More information can be found at progressive.com.
SM
SM
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Statements in this release that are not historical fact are forward-looking statements that are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events and results to differ materially from those discussed herein. These risks and uncertainties include, without limitation, uncertainties related to estimates, assumptions and projections generally; inflation and changes in economic conditions (including changes in interest rates and financial markets); the accuracy and adequacy of the Company's pricing and loss reserving methodologies; pricing competition and other initiatives by competitors; the Company's ability to obtain regulatory approval for requested rate changes and the timing thereof; the effectiveness of the Company's advertising campaigns; legislative and regulatory developments; disputes relating to intellectual property rights; the outcome of litigation pending or that may be filed against the Company; weather conditions (including the severity and frequency of storms, hurricanes, snowfalls, hail and winter conditions); changes in driving patterns and loss trends; acts of war and terrorist activities; the Company's ability to maintain the uninterrupted operation of its facilities, systems (including information technology systems) and business functions; court decisions and trends in litigation and health care and auto repair costs; and other matters described from time to time by the Company in releases and publications, and in periodic reports and other documents filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, investors should be aware that generally accepted accounting principles prescribe when a company may reserve for particular risks, including litigation exposures. Accordingly, results for a given reporting period could be significantly affected if and when a reserve is established for one or more contingencies. Reported results, therefore, may appear to be volatile in certain accounting periods.


