FILE:PGR/PGR-8K-20060118102154.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communication pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On January 18, 2006, The Progressive Corporation issued a news release containing financial results for the company and its subsidiaries for the month of, and quarter and year-to-date periods ended, December 2005. A copy of the news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
See exhibit index on page 4.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: January 18, 2006
Table of Contents

 
The Company is scheduled to hold a one-hour conference call to address questions on Thursday, March 2, 2006, at 9:00 a.m. eastern time, subsequent to the posting of the Company's 2005 Annual Report online and the filing of its 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K with the SEC. Registration for the teleconference or webcast is scheduled to be available on the Company's Web site at
on or after February 1, 2006.
http://investors.progressive.com/events.asp
     MAYFIELD VILLAGE, OHIO  January 18, 2006  The Progressive Corporation today reported the following results for December and fourth quarter 2005. Year-over-year comparisons are affected by an additional week of operating (underwriting and service) results which were included in December and fourth quarter 2004.
 
See the "Income Statements" for further month and year-to-date information and the monthly commentary at the end of this release for additional discussion.
     The Company offers insurance to personal and commercial auto drivers throughout the United States. The Company's Personal Lines business units write insurance for private passenger automobiles and recreation vehicles. The Company's Commercial Auto business unit writes primary liability, physical damage and other auto-related insurance for automobiles and trucks owned by small businesses. See "Supplemental Information" for month and year-to-date results.
 
 
 
NM = Not Meaningful
The following table sets forth the investment results for the year-to-date period:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Monthly Commentary
The Progressive Group of Insurance Companies, in business since 1937, ranks third in the nation for auto insurance based on premiums written and provides drivers with competitive rates and 24/7, in-person and online service. The products and services of the Progressive Direct Group of Insurance Companies are marketed directly to consumers by phone at 1-800-PROGRESSIVE and online at through the Progressive Direct brand. The Drive Group of Progressive Insurance Companies offers insurance through more than 30,000 independent insurance agencies that market their products and services through the Drive Insurance from Progressive brand. For more information about Drive Insurance, go to . The Common Shares of The Progressive Corporation, the Mayfield Village, Ohio-based holding company, are publicly traded at NYSE:PGR. More information can be found at , including a guide to interpreting the monthly reporting package.
www.progressivedirect.com
SM
www.driveinsurance.com
www.progressive.com
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Statements in this release that are not historical fact are forward-looking statements that are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events and results to differ materially from those discussed herein. These risks and uncertainties include, without limitation, uncertainties related to estimates, assumptions and projections generally; inflation and changes in economic conditions (including changes in interest rates and financial markets); the accuracy and adequacy of the Company's pricing and loss reserving methodologies; pricing competition and other initiatives by competitors; the Company's ability to obtain regulatory approval for requested rate changes and the timing thereof; the effectiveness of the Company's advertising campaigns; legislative and regulatory developments; disputes relating to intellectual property rights; the outcome of litigation pending or that may be filed against the Company; weather conditions (including the severity and frequency of storms, hurricanes, snowfalls, hail and winter conditions); changes in driving patterns and loss trends; acts of war and terrorist activities; the Company's ability to maintain the uninterrupted operation of its facilities, systems (including information technology systems) and business functions; court decisions and trends in litigation and health care and auto repair costs; and other matters described from time to time by the Company in releases and publications, and in periodic reports and other documents filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, investors should be aware that generally accepted accounting principles prescribe when a company may reserve for particular risks, including litigation exposures. Accordingly, results for a given reporting period could be significantly affected if and when a reserve is established for one or more contingencies. Reported results, therefore, may appear to be volatile in certain accounting periods.


