FILE:PGR/PGR-8K-20060421162441.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On April 21, 2006, The Progressive Corporation issued a news release announcing a stock split, second quarter dividend, share repurchase authorization and the Annual Shareholder Meeting results. A copy of the news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
See exhibit index on page 4.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: April 21, 2006
 

 
Exhibit 99
 
 
MAYFIELD VILLAGE, OHIOApril 21, 2006The Board of Directors of The Progressive Corporation today:
In addition, at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders today, Progressive's shareholders:
 
The Progressive Group of Insurance Companies, in business since 1937, ranks third in the nation for auto insurance based on premiums written and provides drivers with competitive rates and 24/7, in-person and online service. The products and services of the Progressive Direct Group of Insurance Companies are marketed directly to consumers by phone at 1-800-PROGRESSIVE and online at through the Progressive Direct brand. The Drive Group of Progressive Insurance Companies offers insurance through more than 30,000 independent insurance agencies that market their products and services through the Drive Insurance from Progressive brand. For more information about Drive Insurance, go to . The Common Shares of The Progressive Corporation, the Mayfield Village, Ohio-based holding company, are publicly traded at NYSE:PGR. More information can be found at .
www.progressivedirect.com
SM
www.driveinsurance.com
www.progressive.com


