FILE:PGR/PGR-8K-20060209123944.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01 Entry Into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On February 3, 2006, the Compensation Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors of The Progressive Corporation (the "Company") took the actions described below.
. The 2005 bonuses for the named executive officers under The Progressive Corporation 2004 Executive Bonus Plan ("Executive Bonus Plan") were tied to the growth and profitability of either (i) the "Core Business", defined as the Agency, Direct and Commercial Auto businesses (with minor modifications from the publicly reported results for those businesses) weighted according to the net earned premiums for each business during the year, or (ii) a combination of the Core Business and the executive's assigned business unit weighted on a basis determined by the Committee. At the February 3 meeting, the Committee certified the 2005 performance results for the Agency, Direct and Commercial Auto businesses, and thus for the Core Business as a whole. As a result of these certifications and the bonus calculations required by the Executive Bonus Plan, cash bonuses were awarded to the named executive officers under the plan, as follows:
2005 Bonus Payments to Named Executive Officers
rd
 
. The Committee approved the following employee cash bonus plans, each of which has at least one executive officer as an eligible participant:
2006 Bonus Plans
Table of Contents
. The Committee determined that the salary and variable compensation targets for the Company's named executive officers for 2006 would be as follows:
2006 Salary and Variable Compensation Targets for Named Executive Officers
 
The table below shows the Committee's determination of the percentage of each named executive officer's 2006 cash bonus that will derive, respectively, from the Core Business, Agency business or Direct business, in accordance with the Executive Bonus Plan:
. The performance of the Agency and Commercial Auto businesses will be determined by comparing actual growth and profitability results for 2006 to performance standards approved by the Committee under the following criteria (in each case, a "Standard Performance Calculation"):
2006 Bonus Criteria
Table of Contents
For the Direct business, 50% of its performance score will be based on a Standard Performance Calculation as described above, and 50% will be based on a modified calculation, comparing actual performance results with standards approved by the Committee using the following criteria:
Lifetime earned premium is the Company's calculation of the premiums that are expected to be earned over the lifetime of new policies written by the Direct business during the year, based on the number of new policies written, average premium and the Company's recent retention experience. Lifetime combined ratio is the Company's calculation of the expected profitability on those same new policies, using current GAAP combined ratios for new and renewal business projected over the lifetime of the new policies.
The Company's other executive officers will have their 2006 bonuses determined under one or more of the 2006 Gainsharing Plan, the 2006 IT Incentive Plan or the 2006 PCM Bonus Plan.
. The Committee and the Board of Directors also approved a revised director compensation schedule for 2006. Beginning in April 2006, each Director (other than the non-executive Chairman) will be compensated by an annual lump sum grant of restricted stock under The Progressive Corporation 2003 Directors Equity Incentive Plan, with a dollar value on the date of grant determined according to such Director's then current Committee assignments. The Chairman will receive restricted stock with a value equal to $200,000 on the date of grant. The restricted stock grants will generally vest 11 months from the date of the award, subject to forfeiture provisions under the plan and each Director's right to defer receipt of such awards under the Company's Directors Restricted Stock Deferral Plan. The restricted stock grants are typically approved by the Committee at its meeting held on the day before the Company's Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Separate cash retainer and meeting fees will no longer be paid to Directors. The revised 2006 Director compensation schedule is attached hereto as Exhibit 10(D).
2006 Director Compensation
Item 1.02 Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement.
. February 3, 2006, the Committee terminated the following employee cash bonus plans:
2005 Bonus Plans
Table of Contents
Each of the foregoing plans were attached as exhibits to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 1, 2005.
. In addition, effective April 2006, the Committee terminated the schedule of non-employee director compensation that was put in place in December 2005 and was filed on the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K on December 13, 2005.
Director Compensation
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit No. 10(A)
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit No. 10(B)
1. The Progressive Corporation and its subsidiaries ("Progressive" or the "Company") have adopted The Progressive Corporation 2006 Information Technology Incentive Plan (the "Plan") as part of their overall compensation program for employees assigned to the Company's Information Technology Organization ("IT Organization").
2. There is a strong correlation between computer systems availability and the economic performance of the Company. All 3 sales channels, customer service and claims handling are dependent on electronic systems. When systems are down, Progressive incurs lost productivity costs and, in some cases, may forfeit revenue opportunities. The Plan is designed to incent employees within the IT Organization to find creative ways to eliminate scheduled and unscheduled system downtime, and shift the risk associated with technology changes away from times when downtime is most costly to the business.
3. A significant aspect of the Plan is that it encourages continuous improvement. Each year, the complexity of the Progressive computing environment increases, as we introduce new applications and increasingly target systems to the end consumer. The target payout for the Plan will be set at the amount of "up time points" earned the previous year (adjusted proportionately for any change in the duration of the current Plan year). In order to receive a payout above the target, the performance achieved needs to exceed the previous year's performance level (as so adjusted) in a more complex environment. Plan years will coincide with Progressive's fiscal years.
4. All regular employees of Progressive (including managers) who are assigned primarily to the IT Organization are eligible to be selected for participation in the Plan. The Chief Executive Officer, after consulting with the Chief Human Resource Officer, (collectively, the "Designated Officers") shall have the authority to select Plan participants for any given Plan year.
5. Annual payments under the Plan will be determined by application of the following formula:
     Annual IT Incentive Payment = Paid Earnings x Target Percentage x IT Performance Factor.
     The Annual IT Incentive Payment payable to any participant with respect to any given Plan year will not exceed $75,000.00.
6. Paid Earnings for any Plan year means and includes the following items: (a) regular, used Earned Time Benefit, sick, holiday, funeral and overtime pay paid to a participant during the Plan year for work or services performed as an officer or employee of Progressive during the Plan year, and (b) retroactive payments of any of the foregoing items relating to the same Plan year.
     For purposes of the Plan, Paid Earnings shall not include any short-term or long-term disability payments, the earnings replacement component of any worker's compensation award, any lump sum merit awards, payments from the discretionary cash fund or any other bonus or incentive compensation awards or any unused Earned Time Benefit.
     Notwithstanding the foregoing, if at the end of the 24 pay period of a Plan year, any Plan participant's then current annual salary exceeds his or her salary range maximum plus $105, then for purposes of computing his or her Annual IT Incentive Payment under the Plan, his or her Paid Earnings (including regular, used Earned Time Benefit, sick, holiday and funeral pay) for any bi-weekly pay period during the Plan year will not exceed 1/26 of his or her annual salary range maximum (as in effect as of
th
th
 
the end of the applicable pay period). Without regard to that limitation, such participant's Paid Earnings for the full Plan year will include the full amount of the following items, if any, received by such participant for that Plan year: (a) overtime pay, and (b) retroactive payments of regular, used Earned Time Benefit, sick, holiday, overtime and funeral pay.
7. Target Percentages vary by position and shall be determined on an annual basis by the Designated Officers.
8. In the discretion of the Designated Officers, participants in this Plan may also participate in The Progressive Corporation 2006 Gainsharing Plan, or any successors thereto.
9. The IT Performance Factor
     The IT Performance Factor is based on application availability and accuracy measured on a point system, and may vary from 0 to 2.0. Points are awarded for every day that production systems, both mainframe and client/server, are outage free. If there is an outage in any production system, all of the points relating to that application are lost for that day. Measured applications, measured hours, outage definitions, point values and administrative guidelines will be defined on an annual basis by or under the direction of the Designated Officers. A Performance Matrix approved by the Designated Officers will assign a Performance Score to various point levels that may be achieved.
     For 2006, and for each Plan year thereafter until otherwise determined by the Designated Officers, the applicable Plan rules shall be as set forth in Schedule I attached hereto.
     The best possible score in any given week is 10 points per application. Attached hereto as Schedule II is the 2006 Performance Matrix with the breakdown of scores and related outcomes. For 2006, a target of 1.00 will be achieved by earning between 10,240 and 10,244 points out of a possible 10,660 points. The Designated Officers will establish the applicable performance targets, the performance scores that will be awarded for various point levels achieved and the maximum potential points that may be earned and the resulting performance score for subsequent Plan years.
10. If, for any Plan year, an employee has been selected to participate in both the Plan and another incentive plan offered by the Company, then with respect to such employee, the Annual IT Incentive Payment formula set forth in Paragraph 5 hereof will be appropriately adjusted by applying a weighting factor to reflect the proportion of the employee's total annual incentive opportunity that is being provided by the Plan. The Designated Officers shall have full authority to determine the incentive plan or plans in which any employee shall participate during any plan year and, if an employee is selected to participate in more than one plan, the weighting factor that will apply to each such plan.
11. Subject to Paragraph 12 below, no later than December 31 of each Plan year, each participant will receive an initial payment in respect of his or her Annual IT Incentive Payment for that Plan year equal to 75% of an amount calculated on the basis of Paid Earnings for the first 24 pay periods of the Plan year, estimated earnings for the remainder of the Plan year, performance data through the first 24 pay periods of the Plan year and forecasted performance results for the remainder of the Plan year. No later than February 15 of the following year, each participant shall receive the balance of his or her Annual IT Incentive Payment, if any, for such Plan year, based on his or her Paid Earnings and performance data for the entire Plan year.
12. Unless otherwise determined by the Committee (as defined below), and except as expressly provided herein, in order to be entitled to receive an Annual IT Incentive Payment for any Plan year, the participant must be assigned to the IT Organization and be an active employee of the Company on November 30 of that Plan year ("Qualification Date"). Individuals who are hired on or after December 1 of any Plan year are not entitled to receive an Annual IT Incentive Payment for that Plan year.
 
     Any participant who is on a leave of absence covered by the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993, personal leave of absence approved by the Company, military leave or short or long-term disability on the Qualification Date with respect to any Plan year will be entitled to receive an Annual IT Incentive Payment for that Plan year, calculated as provided in Paragraphs 5 and 11 above and based on the amount of Paid Earnings received by such participant for the Plan year.
     Annual IT Incentive Payments will be net of any legally required deductions for federal, state and local taxes and other items.
13. The right to any Annual IT Incentive Payment hereunder may not be sold, transferred, assigned or encumbered by any participant. Nothing herein shall prevent any participant's interest hereunder from being subject to involuntary attachment, levy or other legal process.
14. The Plan shall be administered by or under the direction of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of The Progressive Corporation ("Committee"). The Committee shall have the authority to adopt, alter, modify, amend and repeal such rules, guidelines, procedures and practices governing the Plan as it shall, from time to time, in its sole discretion, deem advisable.
     The Committee shall have full authority to determine the manner in which the Plan will operate, to interpret the provisions of the Plan and to make all determinations hereunder. All such interpretations and determinations shall be final and binding on Progressive, all Plan participants and all other parties. No such interpretation or determination shall be relied on as a precedent for any similar action or decision.
     Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, all of the authority of the Committee hereunder (including, without limitation, the authority to administer the Plan, select participants in the Plan, interpret the provisions of the Plan, waive any of the requirements specified herein and make determinations hereunder and to establish, change or modify performance targets and measures) may be exercised by the Designated Officers. In the event of a dispute or conflict, the determination of the Committee will govern.
15. The Plan may be terminated, amended or revised, in whole or in part, at any time and from time to time by the Committee, in its sole discretion.
16. The Plan will be unfunded and all payments due under the Plan shall be made from Progressive's general assets.
17. Nothing in the Plan shall be construed as conferring upon any person the right to remain a participant in the Plan or to remain employed by Progressive, nor shall the Plan limit Progressive's right to discipline or discharge any of its employees or change any of their job titles, duties or compensation.
18. Progressive shall have the unrestricted right to set off against or recover out of any Annual IT Incentive Payment or other sums owed to any participant under the Plan any amounts owed by such participant to Progressive.
19. This Plan supersedes any and all prior plans, agreements, understandings and arrangements regarding bonuses or other cash incentive compensation payable to participants by or due from Progressive and relating to the availability of computer systems. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, this Plan supersedes and replaces The Progressive Corporation 2005 Information Technology Incentive Plan (the "Prior Plan"), which is and shall be deemed to be terminated as of December 31, 2005 (the "Termination Date"); provided, that any bonuses or other sums earned and payable under the Prior Plan with respect to any Plan year ended on or prior to the Termination Date shall be unaffected by such termination and shall be paid to the appropriate participants when and as provided thereunder.
 
20. This Plan is adopted, and is to be effective, as of January 1, 2006, which is the commencement of Progressive's 2006 fiscal year. This Plan shall be effective for the 2006 Plan year (which coincides with Progressive's 2006 fiscal year) and for each Plan year thereafter unless and until terminated by the Committee.
21. This Plan shall be interpreted and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Ohio.
 
The intent of this program is to ensure that incidents that have major business impact are counted as an outage. An outage is defined as an event (excluding a telecommunication failure) that prevents 100 or more customers from using an application for more than 15 minutes. We define a customer as an agent, policyholder, claimant, quote requester, body shop personnel, or internal user.
1. System Measurements
The measured hours are 24 hours a day, Monday through Saturday. All day Sunday is measured with the exception of our weekly system maintenance window which is from 3:30am until 8:00am EST and, also, one (1) Sunday a quarter from Midnight to 8:00am EST.
Individual application service level agreements (SLAs) will take precedent over these time frames. See chart below:
 
 
An impacting 100 or more customers is defined as
2. Customer
Experience (Retention)
incident
any of the following:
There can be times when an application is available but a particular transaction could be out of service or malfunctioning. For our measurement purposes, this would typically be counted as an outage.
3. Availability of an Application
We recognize there could be an occasion where the unavailable transaction represents insignificant lost functionality and may affect less than 100 customers. These transactions being unavailable would not be counted as an outage.
Vendors are a critical component to our service delivery. We work with three types of vendors, Transaction Service Vendors (Equifax, Choicepoint, Discover, State MVR Centers, etc.), Infrastructure Vendors (IBM, Microsoft, Oracle, etc.), and Hosting Vendors (Convergys). It is the responsibility of the appropriate I/T group to manage and evaluate the quality of service received from these vendors.
4. Vendor Service Outages
 
For purposes of this program, service disruptions caused by a Transaction Service Vendor or a Hosting Vendor site not being available, that is entirely a vendor issue, will not be counted as an outage. However, we have several arrangements for conversion to an alternate vendor or alternate vendor site during an outage. If we are unable to execute the conversion because of a Progressive related issue, this would be counted as an outage.
For purposes of this program, service disruptions caused by an Infrastructure Vendor will be counted as an outage.
Occasionally an application is available but the response time is poor. Slow response time will not be counted as an outage.
5. Slow Response Time
Occasionally, system or facility work needs to be performed that cannot be completed during our normal maintenance hours (see rule #1 for maintenance hours). In spite of this downtime being scheduled in advance with our customers, it will be counted as an outage.
6. Scheduled Maintenance
Any day without an outage will be awarded the maximum number of points for that day. Point values per day are weighted to correspond with the value to the business based on the volume of transactions. The maximum number of points earned per week is 10 points per application defined in Rule#1. The point value maximum, by day, is outlined in the following table:
7. IT Performance and Retention Point Values
IT Performance
 
Point values will not be adjusted for holidays. In other words, if a holiday is celebrated on a Monday it will be given a 2 point value.
Outages that negatively affect customers will be assessed a 1.0 point loss per incident defined in Rule #2, regardless of the day it occurred.
IT Customer Experience (Retention)
On a daily basis, we will communicate any outage in the Morning Status Report issued Monday through Friday by ETG. The outage will be highlighted in red.
8. Communications of Status
Each Monday, ETG will distribute to all IT staff, the "Weekly IT Performance Report", indicating the previous week's results as well as the annualized point factor. In addition, a monthly report with year-to-date information will be distributed to all IT staff by the first Friday of the fiscal month.
 
Anyone within the organization has the right to appeal an outage. All appeals should be made by email to Ed Locker. Ed will ensure the appeal is presented in the Post Mortem review of the incident. If the outage was misrepresented, a reversal will be carried in the Weekly IT Performance Report and all associated status reports.
9. Appeal Process
If the outage requires a judgment call, it will be reviewed by Jerry Winchell, Tom Cunningham, Scott McPherson, and Molly Gessler who will act as the Ruling Committee. All judgments made by the Ruling Committee are final.
The attached 2006 Earned Points Chart correlates annual points earned to the IT Performance Factor.
10. Earned Points Chart for 2006
 
Schedule II
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit No. 10(C)
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Portfolio Performance Factor used to determine the bonus component of PCM compensation depends on the ranking of the PCM Fixed Income Portfolio Segment's total return for the Plan year compared to the respective risk-adjusted total returns of its peers from the Rogers-Casey survey of Intermediate Fixed Income Fund managers ("R-C Survey"). Because the R-C Survey is only conducted quarterly, we must use quarterly data for a return's standard deviation. The annual returns are calculated from the 4 quarterly returns of the year, but the standard deviation calculation is derived from the most recent 12 quarters (3 years) and converted to annual terms. A fund must have return data for all 12 quarters to be included in the comparison sample.
In calculating the PCM Fixed Income Portfolio's total return, results will include the benefit of any state premium tax abatements for municipal securities held in the Portfolio which are realized by the Company during the Plan year. To calculate the ranking of PCM returns relative to the returns of the fund managers in the R-C Survey, we adjust the individual R-C fund managers' returns to match the risk of the PCM Fixed Income Portfolio Segment by applying the Modigliani & Modigliani (M2) formula. Thus, the raw PCM return and the risk-adjusted PCM return will be identical, while the individual R-C fund manager returns will be adjusted according to how much risk each has undertaken relative to PCM. The formula and definitions are set forth below:
RA Return (fund) = [STDpgr/STDfund] * [Raw Return (fund)  Rf] + Rf
STDpgr = Sample Standard Deviation of PCM Quarterly Returns (Annualized) for 3 Years (i.e., 12 data points) STDfund = Sample Standard Deviation of R-C Fund Manager's Quarterly Returns (Annualized) for 3 Years (i.e., 12 data points) Raw Return (fund) = Total Return of Individual R-C Fund Manager for 4 Quarters (Annual return) Rf = "Risk-free rate" 90-day LIBOR Rate at Beginning of Each Quarter for 4 Quarters (Annual return)
 
Once all the M2 returns are calculated, the data is sorted in descending order from highest to lowest risk-adjusted return. From here, the process to compute the Portfolio Performance Factor is employed.
INTERPOLATED VALUES FOR SETTING TOP AND BOTTOM 5% LEVELS The top 5% and bottom 5% risk-adjusted total return rankings are computed based on the total number of participants, excluding the PCM return. For example, if there were 90 participants, the return required to earn a 2.0 portfolio performance factor would be determined by interpolating between the fourth and fifth firm's returns, since 5% of 90 = 4.50. The same procedure would be used to determine the 0.0 portfolio performance factor.
The total returns, computed by Investment Accounting, for the interpolated positions are calculated as follows (ex. 90 survey participants):
Interpolated Value = Member 4 return  ((Member 4 Return- Member 5 Return)*0.50) Member 4 = 5.30% Member 5 = 5.10%
Member 4.5 (Interpolated Value) = 5.30%  ((5.30%-5.10%)*0.50) = 5.20%
Once the two groups are computed, top and bottom 5%, the remainder of the Portfolio Performance targets are calculated as follows:
Portfolio Performance target variance = (2.00) / Number of positions from first participant after the top 5% ranking to the 1 participant in the bottom 5% ranking. In the case of 90 participants, the number of positions to divide the 2.00 performance factors by would be 83.
st
The calculation for the Portfolio Performance target variance from 2.00  0.00 would be:
2.00 / 83 = .024096 per position for the 90 participant level.
In the case of a tie in risk-adjusted total returns between participants, each participant will have the same Portfolio Performance Factor. The next lowest position would then be stepped down by a factor based on the number of participants who tie. In the case of a
 
tie between two firms, the step down will be twice the Portfolio Performance target variance to maintain the proper stepping to the 0.00 Portfolio Performance Factor level.
Example: If member return number 5 and 6 each had the same score in the 90 participant example, then 5 and 6 would have a Portfolio Performance Factor of 1.97504, which is 2.00  .024096. The number 7 position in this example would have a Portfolio Performance Factor of 1.926848, which is the required step down from 5 to 7.
In addition, if the returns are tied between the interpolated value set for the 2.00 Portfolio Performance Factor and any position below the 2.00 level, those lower positions will also be set to a 2.00 Portfolio Performance Factor. The step down factor in the Portfolio Performance targets will work similarly as noted in the example above. For the last 5% group, all firms with risk adjusted total returns equaling the last interpolated total return value would have the same Portfolio Performance Factor as the interpolated value, all others in the last 5% group would have a 0.00 Portfolio Performance Factor.
Once all the Portfolio Performance targets have been created, from 2.00 to 0.00, PCM's return is compared to the rankings to determine its Portfolio Performance Factor. If the PCM return is not in the top or bottom 5% and does not match the return of any participant, the Portfolio Performance Factor is an interpolated value between the firms with the next highest and next lowest returns.
The interpolation computation for the Portfolio Performance Factor based on PCM's return is as follows:
Portfolio Performance Factor of return below PCM return + (PCM's Return  Return below PCM) / (Return above PCM  Return below PCM) * (Portfolio Performance Factor of return above PCM  Portfolio Performance Factor of return below PCM)
For the 90 participants example, the calculation of PCM's Portfolio Performance Factor is: 1.8554 + ((5.47-5.32) / (5.63-5.32) * (1.8795-1.8554) = 1.867061

 
Exhibit No. (D)
 


