FILE:PGR/PGR-8K-20061213153108.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
     (e) . On December 8, 2006, the Board of Directors of The Progressive Corporation (the "Company") approved The Progressive Corporation Executive Separation Allowance Plan (2006 Amendment and Restatement) (the "Plan"), to be effective for terminations of employment occurring on or after December 31, 2006. A copy of the Plan is attached hereto as
Approval of Executive Separation Allowance Plan
Exhibit 10(A).
     The Plan covers the Company's Chief Executive Officer (CEO), other executive officers and certain other senior level employees of the Company. Among other terms and conditions, the Plan provides for the Company to pay a separation allowance (severance) payment to a covered employee if (i) the employee's employment terminates for reasons other than resignation (including retirement), death, disability, leave of absence or discharge for Cause (as defined in the Plan), and (ii) the employee signs a termination and release agreement as required by the Plan. For executive officers, including the CEO, the separation allowance payment would equal 156 weeks (3 years) of the executive's base salary at the time of termination. The value of cash bonuses or equity-based awards will not be taken into consideration in determining the executive's separation allowance payment. In addition, under the Plan, the executive will be entitled to continue health and welfare benefits for a period not to exceed 18 months at the Company's cost, except that the terminated employee will be required to make contributions to the cost of those benefits to the same extent as prior to termination.
     In addition, the Plan provides that executives and other covered employees will have the right to receive a severance payment for a 3-year period after a Change in Control of the Company, upon either (i) a termination of employment for reasons other than resignation (including retirement), death, disability, leave of absence or discharge for Cause, or (ii) the executive resigning due to a Job Change. For purposes of the Plan, the definition for the term "Change in Control" incorporates the definition of the same term from the Company's equity compensation plan for employees. The term "Job Change" includes a decrease in the individual's total pay package, whether in the same job or after a job transfer, and the imposition of significantly different job duties, shift, work location or number of scheduled work hours. Upon the occurrence of such events, an executive would be entitled to receive a separation allowance payment equal to 156 weeks of base salary and the continuation of health and welfare benefits, on the same basis as described above.
     After each executive has executed and delivered a Termination Agreement (described further below), this Plan will be the exclusive source of separation or severance payments and other benefits for executives in the event of either a job termination, whether or not in connection with a Change in Control, or a Job Change, but only after a Change in Control. The Company will make no other payments and provide no other benefits, including, without limitation, any payments to defray or reimburse taxes arising from such severance payments or benefits (i.e., no "tax gross up" payments). However, executives who also hold outstanding restricted stock or stock option awards under the Company's equity compensation plans will continue to have the rights upon a Change in Control provided under such plans with respect to those equity awards.
     . The Plan supersedes and replaces the Company's former Executive Separation Allowance Plan, which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission as Exhibit 10(I) to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q on November 5, 2001.
Replacement of Former Executive Separation Allowance Plan
     . On December 8, 2006, the Board of Directors authorized the Company to terminate all employment agreements between the Company and its executive officers, including the CEO. Those employment agreements previously controlled the rights and obligations of the Company and executives in the event of a job termination or certain other adverse job changes occurring after a change in control (as defined in such agreements). Beginning on December 31, 2006, the Plan described above will supersede the employment agreements and provide the exclusive severance rights for executives upon a Change in Control. A copy of the approved Termination Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 10(B). Employment agreements for the following executive officers will be terminated:
Termination of Employment (Change in Control) Agreements
Table of Contents
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
On December 13, 2006, The Progressive Corporation issued a news release containing: (a) financial results for the Company and its subsidiaries for the month of, and year-to-date period ended, November 2006; and (b) certain determinations made by the Company's Board of Directors on December 8, 2006, with respect to the Company's previously announced variable dividend policy. A copy of the news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
See exhibit index on page 5.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: December 13, 2006
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit No. 10(A)
     The Progressive Corporation Executive Separation Allowance Plan ("Plan") is currently maintained pursuant to a plan document effective November 1, 2001; and
WHEREAS,
     it is deemed desirable to amend and restate the Plan;
WHEREAS,
     effective December 31, 2006, the Plan is hereby amended and restated as set forth below:
NOW THEREFORE,
 
 
 
 
 
          the Company has hereunto caused this Amendment and Restatement to be executed by its duly authorized representative as of the ___ day of , 2006.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
                    
 
is entered into as of the ___ day of ___, 20 ___ between ("Executive") and ("Employer") pursuant to The Progressive Corporation Executive Separation Allowance Plan ("Plan").
THIS AGREEMENT
                    
                    
     , Executive's employment with Employer terminated (or will terminate) effective ___, 20 ___; and
WHEREAS
     , Executive desires to receive certain separation allowance benefits under the Plan; and
WHEREAS
     , the Plan provides separation allowance benefits only to Executives who sign a Separation Agreement and General Release in the form specified in the Plan;
WHEREAS
     , Executive and Employer hereby agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE
 
 
[If Executive is a California resident, include the following: Executive acknowledges that he/she has read and understands California Civil Code Section 1542, which reads as follows:
"A general release does not extend to claims which the creditor does not know or suspect to exist in his favor at the time of executing the release, which if known by him must have materially affected his settlement with the debtor."
Executive hereby waives the provisions and protections of California Civil Code Section 1542 and agrees that the above release shall apply to all Claims that Executive ever had or now has against the Released Entities, regardless of whether Executive currently is aware of the Claims or suspects that they exist]
 
     , the parties have executed this Agreement as of the date indicated above.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF

 
Exhibit No. 10(B)
     WHEREAS, The Progressive Corporation, an Ohio corporation (the "Company"), and (the "Executive") are parties to an Employment Agreement dated ("Employment Agreement"); and
                    
                    
                    
     WHEREAS, the Company has adopted The Progressive Corporation Executive Separation Allowance Plan (2006 Amendment and Restatement) (the "Separation Allowance Plan"); and
     WHEREAS, Executive desires to participate in the Separation Allowance Plan; and
     WHEREAS, Company is willing to permit Executive's participation in the Separation Allowance Plan, provided that Executive executes this Termination Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE, Company and Executive hereby agree as follows:
Effective , the Employment Agreement shall terminate. Following such termination, Executive and Company shall cease to have any rights or obligations under the Employment Agreement.
                    
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Company and Executive have hereunto caused this Termination Agreement to be executed as of the ___ day of .
                    

 
Exhibit 99
MAYFIELD VILLAGE, OHIO  December 13, 2006  The Progressive Corporation today reported the following results for November 2006:
See the "Income Statements" for further month and year-to-date information.
     In addition, on December 8, 2006, the Board of Directors confirmed, as previously announced, that we intend to use a variable dividend formula in 2007 to determine an annual dividend payout on our outstanding Common Shares, replacing the existing policy of paying quarterly Common Share dividends. The variable dividend payout is based on a formula which multiplies our annual after-tax underwriting income by both a Shareholder Gainshare Target, which is annually set by the Board, and a Gainshare Factor. At the December 8 meeting, the Board established 20% as the Shareholder Gainshare Target to be used in the 2007 dividend calculation. The Gainshare Factor will be a number from 0.0 to 2.0, depending on the levels of growth and profitability in our principal business units, and will vary from year to year. The 2006 year-to-date Gainshare Factor can be found on page 6 of this release. Subject to final declaration by the Board, it is anticipated that the record date for the 2007 annual dividend will be in December 2007 with the payout expected in early 2008. For additional information on this variable dividend policy, see Exhibits 99(A) and 99(B), which are attached to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005.
     Progressive offers insurance to personal and commercial auto drivers throughout the United States. Our Personal Lines business units write insurance for private passenger automobiles and recreational vehicles. Our Commercial Auto business unit writes primary liability, physical damage and other auto-related insurance for automobiles and trucks owned by small businesses. See "Supplemental Information" for month and year-to-date results.
 
 
The following table sets forth the investment results for the month:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Monthly Commentary
The Progressive Group of Insurance Companies, in business since 1937, ranks third in the nation for auto insurance based on premiums written and provides drivers with competitive rates and 24/7, in-person and online service. The products and services of the Progressive Direct Group of Insurance Companies are marketed directly to consumers online at and by phone at 1-800-PROGRESSIVE through the Progressive Direct brand. The Drive Group of Progressive Insurance Companies offers insurance through more than 30,000 independent insurance agencies that market their products and services through the Drive Insurance from Progressive brand. For more information about Drive Insurance, go to The Common Shares of The Progressive Corporation, the Mayfield Village, Ohio-based holding company, are publicly traded at NYSE:PGR. More information, including a guide to interpreting the monthly reporting package, can be found at w
www.progressivedirect.com
www.driveinsurance.com.
ww.progressive.com.
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Statements in this release that are not historical fact are forward-looking statements that are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events and results to differ materially from those discussed herein. These risks and uncertainties include, without limitation, uncertainties related to estimates, assumptions and projections generally; inflation and changes in economic conditions (including changes in interest rates and financial markets); the accuracy and adequacy of the Company's pricing and loss reserving methodologies; pricing competition and other initiatives by competitors; the Company's ability to obtain regulatory approval for requested rate changes and the timing thereof; the effectiveness of the Company's advertising campaigns; legislative and regulatory developments; disputes relating to intellectual property rights; the outcome of litigation pending or that may be filed against the Company; weather conditions (including the severity and frequency of storms, hurricanes, snowfalls, hail and winter conditions); changes in driving patterns and loss trends; acts of war and terrorist activities; the Company's ability to maintain the uninterrupted operation of its facilities, systems (including information technology systems) and business functions; court decisions and trends in litigation and health care and auto repair costs; and other matters described from time to time by the Company in releases and publications, and in periodic reports and other documents filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, investors should be aware that generally accepted accounting principles prescribe when a company may reserve for particular risks, including litigation exposures. Accordingly, results for a given reporting period could be significantly affected if and when a reserve is established for one or more contingencies. Reported results, therefore, may appear to be volatile in certain accounting periods.


