FILE:PGR/PGR-8K-20070208094859.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communication pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
          (e) The following matters relating to the compensation of named executive officers for 2006 and 2007, and related compensation plans, were decided by either the Compensation Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors (the "Board") of The Progressive Corporation (the "Company"), or by the full Board, at their respective meetings on February 2 and 3, 2007.
          . The 2006 bonuses for the named executive officers listed below under The Progressive Corporation 2004 Executive Bonus Plan ("2004 Executive Bonus Plan") were tied to the growth and profitability of the "Core Business", which was defined for 2006 to include the Drive (Agency), Direct and Commercial Auto businesses, weighted according to the net earned premiums for each business during the year. The Committee certified the 2006 performance results for the Drive, Direct and Commercial Auto businesses, and thus for the Core Business as a whole. As a result of these certifications and the bonus calculations required by the 2004 Executive Bonus Plan, cash bonuses for 2006 will be paid as follows:
Certification of Bonus Payments for 2006 to Named Executive Officers
 
          . The Committee approved The Progressive Corporation 2007 Executive Bonus Plan (the "2007 Executive Bonus Plan"), a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10(A). The 2007 Executive Bonus Plan remains subject to approval by shareholders at the Company's Annual Meeting of Shareholders in April 2007. The 2007 Executive Bonus Plan is substantially similar to the 2004 Executive Bonus Plan, with the following significant changes:
2007 Executive Bonus Plan
The 2007 Executive Bonus Plan will be submitted to shareholders for approval at our Annual Meeting of Shareholders in April 2007. Accordingly, our 2007 Proxy Statement will include a more detailed summary of this plan.
Table of Contents
          . The Committee determined that the salary and variable compensation targets for 2007 for the Company's named executive officers, as set forth in our 2006 Proxy Statement, will be as follows:
2007 Salary and Variable Compensation Targets for Named Executive Officers
 
          . For 2007 cash bonuses, the Committee decided to use the 2007 Executive Bonus Plan, although this determination is subject to the approval of that plan by shareholders. The Committee defined the "Core Business" for 2007 to include the Drive, Direct, Commercial Auto and Special Lines businesses, and determined that each of the named executive officers listed above would earn 100% of their 2007 bonus as a result of the performance of the Core Business.
2007 Bonus Criteria
The performance of each of the Drive, Direct, Commercial Auto and Special Lines businesses will be determined by comparing actual profitability and growth results for 2007 against performance standards approved by the Committee, using the following criteria:
Pursuant to the 2007 Executive Bonus Plan, a performance score for each business will be determined for 2007 based on actual results for the year, using the performance criteria set forth above and objective standards approved by the Committee for each business unit. The performance scores for each of the business units will then be combined, with each business unit's results being
Table of Contents
weighted according to its net premiums earned as compared with the net premiums earned for the entire Core Business. The result of this calculation will be a performance factor from between 0.0 and 2.0, resulting in a cash bonus within the range set forth in the table above. A performance factor of 1.0 will result in the "target" value set forth in the table.
As mentioned above, additional details about the 2007 Executive Bonus Plan, and the performance criteria and related procedures that have been adopted by the Committee for 2007, will be included in the Company's 2007 Proxy Statement.
          . The Board of Directors approved the First Amendment (the "First Amendment") to The Progressive Corporation 2003 Incentive Plan ("2003 Incentive Plan"), which is the plan under which the Company currently makes restricted stock awards to named executive officers, other executive officers and other senior level employees of the Company. The First Amendment, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10(B), includes several modifications to the original plan, as follows:
Amendment to Equity Plan
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c)      Exhibits
          See exhibit index on page 6.
Table of Contents
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: February 8, 2007
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 10(A)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 10(B)
     WHEREAS, The Progressive Corporation 2003 Incentive Plan (the "Plan") is currently in effect; and
     WHEREAS, it is deemed desirable to amend the Plan;
     NOW, THEREFORE, the Plan is hereby amended in the respects, and as of the effective dates, hereinafter set forth:
A.
Amendment Subject to Shareholder Approval
     1. Subject to subparagraph A.2. below, the definition of the term "Performance Goals", as set forth in Section 1(c) of the Plan, is hereby amended and restated in its entirety to provide as follows:
        means the performance goals established by the Committee with respect to any Award, which shall be based on one or more of the following measures:
""Performance Goals"
Performance goals may be measured on a company-wide, subsidiary or business unit basis, or any combination thereof. Performance goals may reflect absolute entity performance or a relative comparison of entity performance to the performance of a peer group of entities or other external measure."
     2. The amendment included in Paragraph A.1. above is subject to approval by the holders of The Progressive Corporation's Common Shares, $1.00 par value ("shareholders") in accordance with the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Code. If shareholders do not approve such amendment at the
 
Annual Meeting of Shareholders in April 2007, Paragraph A.1 only of this First Amendment shall automatically terminate and be of no further force or effect.
B.
Amendments Not Requiring Shareholder Approval
     1. For all Awards (as defined in the Plan) to be made after February 2007, Section 5(b)(8) of the Plan is hereby amended and restated in its entirety to provide as follows:
"Except as provided in this Section 5(b)(8), Section 5(b)(7) or Section 5(b)(9), the Participant shall have, with respect to the shares of Restricted Stock awarded, all of the rights of a shareholder of the Company, including the right to vote the Stock and the right to receive any dividends. However, notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Section 5(b)(8), each Participant's rights to receive cash dividends on shares of Restricted Stock awarded on or after March 1, 2007 ("Restricted Cash Dividends") shall be subject to all the terms and conditions regarding vesting and forfeitability that apply to the shares of Restricted Stock to which such Restricted Cash Dividends relate, as set forth in this Plan and the applicable Award Agreement, and each Participant will be paid such Restricted Cash Dividends only if the Restricted Stock to which the Restricted Cash Dividends relate vests, and all restrictions with respect thereto lapse. In addition, the following provisions shall apply with respect to such Restricted Cash Dividends:
 
     2. For all Awards to be made after February 2008, Section 5(b)(13)(D)(i) of the Plan is hereby amended and restated in its entirety to provide as follows:
"(i)  any termination of a Participant's employment with the Company or its Subsidiaries or Affiliates for any reason (other than death, Disability or an involuntary termination for Cause) if, at or immediately prior to the date of such termination, the Participant satisfies both of the following conditions:
Qualified Retirement
     3. For all Awards to be made after February 2007, Section 7(c) of the Plan is hereby amended and restated in its entirety to provide as follows:
"(c) For purposes of Section 7(a), a "Potential Change in Control" means the acquisition of beneficial ownership, directly or indirectly, by any entity, person or group (other than the Company or a Subsidiary or any Company employee benefit plan (including any trustee of such plan acting as such trustee)) of securities of the Company representing five percent or more of the combined voting power of the Company's outstanding securities and the adoption by the Board of a resolution to the effect that a Potential Change in Control of the Company has occurred for purposes of this Plan."
Definition of Potential Change in Control.
     4. For all Awards to be made after February 2007, a new Subsection (k) is hereby added to Section 10, as follows:
"(k) (i) If (A) Performance-Based Restricted Stock vests hereunder on the basis of the achievement of certain financial or operating results (which includes, for purposes hereof, all of the Performance Goals that are available to the Committee under this Plan), (B) those financial or operating results were incorrect and were subsequently the subject of a restatement by Progressive within three (3) years after the date of vesting, and (C) the vesting event would not have occurred if the actual financial or operating results had been known at the time, then the Company shall have the right of recoupment from any executive officer who received shares of Stock upon such vesting or who elected to defer such shares at vesting; provided, however, that the Company will not have this right of recoupment if the Committee determines that, notwithstanding such restatement, such Performance-Based Restricted Stock would have nonetheless vested thereafter based on the Company's actual operating or financial results.. The
 
Company will have this right of recoupment whether or not the executive officer in question was at fault or responsible in any way in causing such restatement In such circumstances, the Company will have the right to recover from each executive officer, and each such executive officer will refund to the Company, at the Company's discretion, either (X) a number of Shares equal to the number of Shares of Performance-Based Restricted Stock which vested, or which such Participant elected to defer, upon the vesting thereof based on the incorrect operating or financial results, or (Y) the dollar equivalent of such number of Shares as of the date of such vesting, without interest. Such recovery, at the Committee's discretion, may be made by lump sum payment, installment payments, credits against unvested Awards made hereunder, credits against future bonus or other incentive payments or awards, or other appropriate mechanism.
     (ii) If any Participant engaged in fraud or other misconduct (as determined by the Committee or the Board, in their respective sole discretion) resulting, in whole or in part, in a restatement of the financial or operating results used to determine the vesting of Performance-Based Restricted Stock hereunder, the Company will have the right to recoup from such Participant, and the Participant will transfer or pay to the Company upon demand, in the Company's discretion, either (A) a number of shares of Stock equal to the number of Shares of Performance-Based Restricted Stock which vested, or which such Participant elected to defer, upon the vesting thereof based on the incorrect operating or financial results, or (B) the dollar equivalent to such number of shares determined as of the date of such vesting, plus interest at the rate of eight percent (8%) per annum or, if lower, the highest rate permitted by law, calculated from such vesting date. The Company further shall have the right to terminate and cancel any and all Awards previously made to such Participant at any time hereunder that are then unvested, and to recover from such Participant the Company's costs and expenses incurred in connection with recovering such Shares or funds from Participant and enforcing its rights under this subsection (ii), including, without limitation, reasonable attorneys fees. There shall be no time limit on the Company's right to recover such amounts under this subsection (ii), except as otherwise provided by applicable law.
     (iii) The rights contained in this subsection (k) shall be in addition to, and shall not limit, any other rights or remedies that the Company may have under this Plan or under any applicable law or regulation.


