FILE:PGR/PGR-8K-20070420140505.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
See the information provided under Item 5.02 above and on the attached Exhibit 99.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
See exhibit index on page 4.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: April 20, 2007
 

 
Exhibit 99
 
 
MAYFIELD VILLAGE, OHIO  April 20, 2007  At the Annual Meeting of Shareholders of The Progressive Corporation today, Progressive's shareholders:
About Progressive
The Progressive Group of Insurance Companies, in business since 1937, is the country's third largest auto insurance group and largest seller of motorcycle and personal watercraft policies based on premiums written, and is a market leader in commercial auto insurance.
Progressive is committed to becoming consumers' #1 choice for auto insurance by providing competitive products and rates that meet drivers' needs throughout their lifetimes, superior online and in-person customer service, and best-in-class, 24-hour claims service, including our concierge level of claims service available at service centers throughout the United States.
Progressive companies offer consumers choices in how to shop for, buy and manage their auto insurance policies. The Agency Business sells Progressive Drive Insurance private passenger auto insurance through more than 30,000 independent agencies. To find an agent, go to . The Direct Business sells Progressive Direct private passenger auto insurance online at and by phone at 1-800-PROGRESSIVE. Both businesses also offer Progressive's other insurance products, including Progressive Commercial, Progressive Motorcycle and Progressive Boat. Each business makes independent decisions about private passenger auto insurance product design and pricing. Progressive and Drive are registered trademarks.
www.driveinsurance.com
www.progressive.com
The Common Shares of The Progressive Corporation, the Mayfield Village, Ohio-based holding company, are publicly traded at NYSE:PGR. For more information, please visit .
www.progressive.com


