FILE:PGR/PGR-8K-20070214104725.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
On February 14, 2007, The Progressive Corporation issued a news release containing financial results for the Company and its subsidiaries for the month of January 2007. A copy of the news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
See exhibit index on page 5.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: February 14, 2007
 

 
Exhibit 99
 
The Company is scheduled to hold a one-hour conference call to address questions on Friday, March 2, 2007, at 9:30 a.m. eastern time, subsequent to the posting of the Company's 2006 Annual Report online and the filing of its 2006 Annual Report on Form 10-K with the SEC. Registration for the teleconference or webcast is available on our Web site at
http://investors.progressive.com/events.asp
MAYFIELD VILLAGE, OHIO  February 14, 2007  The Progressive Corporation today reported the following results for January 2007:
     Progressive offers insurance to personal and commercial auto drivers throughout the United States. Our Personal Lines business units write insurance for private passenger automobiles and recreational vehicles. Our Commercial Auto business unit writes primary liability, physical damage and other auto-related insurance for automobiles and trucks owned by small businesses.
     See the "Income Statement" and "Supplemental Information" for further information and the "Monthly Commentary" at the end of this release for additional discussion.
 
See the Monthly Commentary at the end of this release for additional discussion. For a description of our reporting and accounting policies, see Note 1 to our 2005 audited consolidated financial statements included in our 2005 Shareholders' Report, which can be found at .
1
www.progressive.com/annualreport
The following table sets forth the investment results for the month:
 
NM = Not Meaningful
Primarily includes professional liability insurance for community banks and Progressive's run-off businesses. The other businesses generated an underwriting profit of $1.4 million.
1
Represents adjustments solely based on our corporate actuarial reviews.
2
Includes insurance for motorcycles, recreational vehicles, mobile homes, watercraft, snowmobiles, an umbrella product and similar items.
3
 
Pursuant to SFAS 113, "Accounting and Reporting for Reinsurance of Short-Duration and Long-Duration Contracts," loss and loss adjustment expense reserves are stated gross of reinsurance recoverables on unpaid losses of $354.9 million.
1
Amounts include net unsettled security acquisitions, including repurchase commitments, of $296.1 million.
2
 
Monthly Commentary
The Progressive Group of Insurance Companies, in business since 1937, ranks third in the nation for auto insurance based on premiums written and provides drivers with competitive rates and 24/7, in-person and online service. The products and services of the Progressive Direct Group of Insurance Companies are marketed directly to consumers online at and by phone at 1-800-PROGRESSIVE through the Progressive Direct brand. The Drive Group of Progressive Insurance Companies offers insurance through more than 30,000 independent insurance agencies that market their products and services through the Drive Insurance from Progressive brand. For more information about Drive Insurance, go to . The Common Shares of The Progressive Corporation, the Mayfield Village, Ohio-based holding company, are publicly traded at NYSE:PGR. More information, including a guide to interpreting the monthly reporting package, can be found at .
www.progressivedirect.com
www.driveinsurance.com
www.progressive.com
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Statements in this release that are not historical fact are forward-looking statements that are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events and results to differ materially from those discussed herein. These risks and uncertainties include, without limitation, uncertainties related to estimates, assumptions and projections generally; inflation and changes in economic conditions (including changes in interest rates and financial markets); the accuracy and adequacy of our pricing and loss reserving methodologies; the competitiveness of our pricing and the effectiveness of our initiatives to retain more customers; initiatives by competitors and the effectiveness of our response; our ability to obtain regulatory approval for requested rate changes and the timing thereof; the effectiveness of our brand strategy and advertising campaigns relative to those of competitors; legislative and regulatory developments; disputes relating to intellectual property rights; the outcome of litigation pending or that may be filed against us; weather conditions (including the severity and frequency of storms, hurricanes, snowfalls, hail and winter conditions); changes in driving patterns and loss trends; acts of war and terrorist activities; our ability to maintain the uninterrupted operation of our facilities, systems (including information technology systems) and business functions; court decisions and trends in litigation and health care and auto repair costs; and other matters described from time to time in our releases and publications, and in our periodic reports and other documents filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, investors should be aware that generally accepted accounting principles prescribe when a company may reserve for particular risks, including litigation exposures. Accordingly, results for a given reporting period could be significantly affected if and when a reserve is established for one or more contingencies. Reported results, therefore, may appear to be volatile in certain accounting periods.


