FILE:PGR/PGR-8K-20080312142801.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
(c) On March 12, 2008, The Progressive Corporation announced that Susan Patricia Griffith has been appointed as the President of the Company's Claims Group, reporting to Glenn M. Renwick, President and CEO. Mrs. Griffith does not have an employment agreement with the Company. Her compensation will be determined under the Company's plans and policies for executive officers, as described in more detail in our Proxy Statement dated March 7, 2008. A copy of the Company's press release announcing Mrs. Griffith's appointment and including additional information concerning her background is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
On March 12, 2008, the Company issued a news release containing financial results for the Company and its subsidiaries for the month of, and year-to-date period ended, February 2008. A copy of the news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2.
(d) Exhibits
See exhibit index on page 4.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: March 12, 2008
 

 
 
 
MAYFIELD VILLAGE, OHIO  March 12, 2008  The Progressive Corporation today announced the appointment of Susan Patricia Griffith as the Claims Group President, effective immediately. Mrs. Griffith, 43, who currently serves as Chief Human Resource Officer overseeing all Human Resources systems, policies and practices for the Corporation, first joined Progressive in 1988 as a claims representative in Indianapolis. Mrs. Griffith has served in various capacities since then, including claims unit supervisor, branch manager and auditor. She has also served as a regional claims manager and as a process manager responsible for the Company's Subrogation group, the national Glass Claims Unit and the 24-hour Claims Reporting Unit. Mrs. Griffith has a bachelor's degree from Illinois State University.
CEO and President Glenn Renwick said: "Tricia's 20 years of Progressive experiencefirst in claims and for the last six years in Human Resourcesmake her an ideal person to assume this critical role."
Mrs. Griffith will continue to report to Mr. Renwick in her new role.
A search for a new Chief Human Resource Officer will begin immediately.
The Progressive Group of Insurance Companies, in business since 1937, is the country's third largest auto insurance group and largest seller of motorcycle and personal watercraft policies based on premiums written, and is a market leader in commercial auto insurance.
About Progressive
Progressive is committed to becoming consumers' #1 choice for auto insurance by providing competitive rates and products that meet drivers' needs throughout their lifetimes, superior online and in-person customer service, and best-in-class, 24-hour claims service, including its concierge level of claims service available at service centers located in major metropolitan areas throughout the United States.
Progressive companies offer consumers choices in how to shop for, buy and manage their auto insurance policies. Progressive offers its products, including personal and commercial auto, motorcycle, boat and recreational vehicle insurance, through more than 30,000 independent insurance agencies throughout the U.S. and online and by phone directly from the Company. To find an agent or to get a quote, go to www.progressive.com.
The Common Shares of The Progressive Corporation, the Mayfield Village, Ohio-based holding company, are publicly traded at NYSE:PGR.

 
MAYFIELD VILLAGE, OHIO  March 12, 2008  The Progressive Corporation today reported the following results for February 2008:
Progressive offers insurance to personal and commercial auto drivers throughout the United States. Our Personal Lines Business writes insurance for private passenger automobiles and recreational vehicles. Our Commercial Auto Business writes primary liability, physical damage and other auto-related insurance for automobiles and trucks owned by small businesses.
See the "Income Statements" and "Supplemental Information" for further month and year-to-date information and the "Monthly Commentary" at the end of this release for additional discussion.
 
 
The following table sets forth the investment results for the month:
 
The following table sets forth the investment results for the year-to-date period:
 
 
 
NM = Not Meaningful
 
 
 
 
Monthly Commentary
About Progressive
The Progressive Group of Insurance Companies, in business since 1937, is the country's third largest auto insurance group and largest seller of motorcycle and personal watercraft policies based on premiums written, and is a market leader in commercial auto insurance.
Progressive is committed to becoming consumers' #1 choice for auto insurance by providing competitive rates and products that meet drivers' needs throughout their lifetimes, superior online and in-person customer service, and best-in-class, 24-hour claims service, including its concierge level of claims service available at service centers located in major metropolitan areas throughout the United States.
Progressive companies offer consumers choices in how to shop for, buy and manage their auto insurance policies. Progressive offers its products, including personal and commercial auto, motorcycle, boat and recreational vehicle insurance, through more than 30,000 independent insurance agencies throughout the U.S. and online and by phone directly from the Company. To find an agent or to get a quote, go to .
www.progressive.com
The Common Shares of The Progressive Corporation, the Mayfield Village, Ohio-based holding company, are publicly traded at NYSE:PGR. For more information, including a guide to interpreting the monthly reporting package, visit .
www.progressive.com
Safe Harbor Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Statements in this release that are not historical fact are forward-looking statements that are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events and results to differ materially from those discussed herein. These risks and uncertainties include, without limitation, uncertainties related to estimates, assumptions and projections generally; inflation and changes in economic conditions (including changes in interest rates and financial markets); the accuracy and adequacy of our pricing and loss reserving methodologies; the competitiveness of our pricing and the effectiveness of our initiatives to retain more customers; initiatives by competitors and the effectiveness of our response; our ability to obtain regulatory approval for requested rate changes and the timing thereof; the effectiveness of our brand strategy and advertising campaigns relative to those of competitors; legislative and regulatory developments; disputes relating to intellectual property rights; the outcome of litigation pending or that may be filed against us; weather conditions (including the severity and frequency of storms, hurricanes, snowfalls, hail and winter conditions); changes in driving patterns and loss trends; acts of war and terrorist activities; our ability to maintain the uninterrupted operation of our facilities, systems (including information technology systems) and business functions; court decisions and trends in litigation and health care and auto repair costs; and other matters described from time to time in our releases and publications, and in our periodic reports and other documents filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, investors should be aware that generally accepted accounting principles prescribe when a company may reserve for particular risks, including litigation exposures. Accordingly, results for a given reporting period could be significantly affected if and when a reserve is established for one or more contingencies. Reported results, therefore, may appear to be volatile in certain accounting periods.


