FILE:PGR/PGR-8K-20080911101835.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Material Impairments	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Material Impairments
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.06 Material Impairments.
On September 9, 2008, The Progressive Corporation wrote down $324.7 million in securities that were determined to have had an "other-than-temporary" decline in market value as of August 31, 2008, including $278.2 million of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac preferred and common stocks. When a security has an unrealized loss in fair value that is deemed to be other than temporary, the Company reduces the book value of the security to its current market value, recognizing the decline as a realized loss in the income statement. For August, the preferred stock portfolio was reduced $313.8 million, or 18% of the fair value, while common equities were reduced $10.9 million. These determinations primarily reflect the market-related issues associated with the disruption in the mortgage and other credit markets, which created a significant deterioration in both the valuation of the securities as well as our view of future recoverability of the valuation decline. In addition, on September 7, 2008, the U. S. Government placed Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in conservatorship, which further solidified our decision that these securities were other-than-temporarily impaired. As of September 8, 2008, the Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac preferred stock securities generated $171.3 million of additional marked-to-market net losses, bringing their fair value to $38.0 million. The Company does not anticipate that these impairment charges will result in future cash expenditures by the Company.
For additional information, see the comments on page 7 of the Company's Press Release attached hereto as Exhibit 99. An additional discussion of the Company's "Critical Accounting Policy: Other-than-Temporary Impairment" can be found in included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On September 11, 2008, the Company issued a news release containing financial results for the Company and its subsidiaries for the month of, and year-to-date period ended, August 2008. A copy of the news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
See exhibit index on page 4.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: September 11, 2008
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
MAYFIELD VILLAGE, OHIO  September 11, 2008  The Progressive Corporation today reported the following results for August 2008:
 
 
Progressive offers insurance to personal and commercial auto drivers throughout the United States. Our Personal Lines Business writes insurance for private passenger automobiles and recreational vehicles. Our Commercial Auto Business writes primary liability, physical damage and other auto-related insurance for automobiles and trucks owned by small businesses.
See the "Income Statements" and "Supplemental Information" for further month and year-to-date information and the "Monthly Commentary" at the end of this release for additional discussion.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Monthly Commentary
 
 
Of the $324.7 million of write-downs taken in August, $75.4 million represents valuation declines which occurred during the month; $249.3 million had previously been reflected as pre-tax unrealized losses in shareholders' equity. Only the August decline had an effect on our comprehensive income, book value and reported investment total return for the month.
For each of these preferred and common stock securities, we determined that fundamental issues exist for the issuer in addition to the effects of current market conditions, and it is not clear at this time that we will hold these securities for a period of time necessary to recover a substantial portion of the declines in value. A discussion of our "Critical Accounting Policy: Other-than-Temporary Impairment" can be found in which is included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,
In accordance with our other-than-temporary impairment policy, in September we are continuing to assess the valuation declines of these and other securities in our portfolio, particularly our preferred stocks, to determine the extent to which such securities are other-than-temporarily impaired. To the extent certain securities are deemed other-than-temporarily impaired, we will recognize the decline in fair value as a realized loss in the income statement and report the impact in our September release, including the anticipated additional write downs on our Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac securities to their fair values at September month-end.
 
About Progressive
The Progressive Group of Insurance Companies, in business since 1937, is one of the country's largest auto insurance groups, the largest seller of motorcycle and personal watercraft policies, and a market leader in commercial auto insurance based on premiums written.
Progressive is committed to becoming consumers' #1 choice for auto insurance by providing competitive rates and innovative products and services that meet drivers' needs throughout their lifetimes, including superior online and in-person customer service, and best-in-class, 24-hour claims service, such as its concierge level of claims service available at service centers located in major metropolitan areas throughout the United States.
Progressive companies offer consumers choices in how to shop for, buy and manage their auto insurance policies. Progressive offers its products, including personal and commercial auto, motorcycle, boat and recreational vehicle insurance, through more than 30,000 independent insurance agencies throughout the U.S. and online and by phone directly from the Company. Private passenger auto products and prices are different when purchased directly from Progressive or through independent agencies. To find an agent or to get a quote, go to .
http://www.progressive.com
The Common Shares of The Progressive Corporation, the Mayfield Village, Ohio-based holding company, are publicly traded at NYSE:PGR. For more information, including a guide to interpreting the monthly reporting package, visit .
http://www.progressive.com
Safe Harbor Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Statements in this release that are not historical fact are forward-looking statements that are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events and results to differ materially from those discussed herein. These risks and uncertainties include, without limitation, uncertainties related to estimates, assumptions and projections generally; inflation and changes in economic conditions (including changes in interest rates and financial markets); the financial condition of, and other issues relating to the strength of and liquidity available to, issuers of securities held in our investment portfolios; the accuracy and adequacy of our pricing and loss reserving methodologies; the competitiveness of our pricing and the effectiveness of our initiatives to retain more customers; initiatives by competitors and the effectiveness of our response; our ability to obtain regulatory approval for requested rate changes and the timing thereof; the effectiveness of our brand strategy and advertising campaigns relative to those of competitors; legislative and regulatory developments; disputes relating to intellectual property rights; the outcome of litigation pending or that may be filed against us; weather conditions (including the severity and frequency of storms, hurricanes, snowfalls, hail and winter conditions); changes in driving patterns and loss trends; acts of war and terrorist activities; our ability to maintain the uninterrupted operation of our facilities, systems (including information technology systems) and business functions; court decisions and trends in litigation and health care and auto repair costs; and other matters described from time to time in our releases and publications, and in our periodic reports and other documents filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, investors should be aware that generally accepted accounting principles prescribe when a company may reserve for particular risks, including litigation exposures. Accordingly, results for a given reporting period could be significantly affected if and when a reserve is established for one or more contingencies. Also, our regular reserve reviews may result in adjustments of varying magnitude as additional information regarding pending loss and loss adjustment expense reserves becomes known. Reported results, therefore, may be volatile in certain accounting periods.
 


