FILE:PGR/PGR-8K-20090121091355.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Material Impairments	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Material Impairments
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On January 21, 2009, The Progressive Corporation issued a news release containing financial results for the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries for the month of, and year-to-date period ended, December 2008 and selected quarterly financial results. A copy of the news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.
Item 2.06 Material Impairments.
On January 16, 2009, The Progressive Corporation wrote down $337.1 million in securities that were determined to have had an "other-than-temporary" decline in market value as of December 31, 2008. When a security has an unrealized loss in fair value that is deemed to be other than temporary, the Company reduces the book value of the security to its current market value, recognizing the decline as a realized loss in the income statement. For December, the preferred stock portfolio, which includes both redeemable and nonredeemable preferred stocks, was reduced $260.9 million, or 15% of the total preferred stock at their December 31, 2008 cost basis, while common equities were reduced $40.5 million, corporate debt securities were reduced $25.2 million and structured debt was reduced $10.5 million. These determinations were primarily the result of fundamental matters related to either specific issues or issuers and/or the significant decline in the credit and mortgage-related markets, and were taken because we were unable to objectively determine that these securities would substantially recover in the near term. The Company does not anticipate that these impairment charges will result in future cash expenditures by the Company.
For additional information, see the comments beginning on page 7 of the Company's Press Release attached hereto as Exhibit 99. An additional discussion of the Company's "Critical Accounting Policy: Other-than-Temporary Impairment" can be found in included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
See exhibit index on page 4.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: January 21, 2009
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
Progressive is scheduled to hold a one-hour conference call to address questions on Friday, February 27, 2009, at 9 a.m. eastern time, subsequent to the posting of our 2008 Shareholders' Report online and the filing of our 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K with the SEC. Registration for the teleconference or webcast is scheduled to be available at in early February 2009.
http://investors.progressive.com/events.aspx
MAYFIELD VILLAGE, OHIO  January 21, 2009  The Progressive Corporation today reported the following results for December 2008:
 
 
 
Progressive offers insurance to personal and commercial auto drivers throughout the United States. Our Personal Lines Business writes insurance for private passenger automobiles and recreational vehicles. Our Commercial Auto Business writes primary liability, physical damage, and other auto-related insurance for automobiles and trucks owned by small businesses.
See the "Income Statements" and "Supplemental Information" for further month and year-to-date information and the "Monthly Commentary" at the end of this release for additional discussion.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Monthly Commentary
Operating Results
 
Investment Results
 
 
 
 
 
 
Since we maintain an available-for-sale portfolio, changes in the fair value of our securities are reflected as unrealized gains (losses) in accumulated other comprehensive income on a monthly basis. As a result, a portion of the write-downs recognized in net income in December had previously been recognized in other comprehensive income, and did not have a further impact on our shareholders' equity, book value or investment total return. Therefore, the change in fair value during the month that affected shareholders' equity, book value or total return was the $320.3 million net unrealized gain.
 
 
1
Since we reported a loss for 2008, the basic per share amount is disclosed; for 2007, diluted per share is disclosed.
For the fourth quarter 2008, our comprehensive loss was $62.1 million and, for the month of December, we generated comprehensive income of $246.1 million, primarily due to positive returns on our investment portfolio during the month.
 
About Progressive
The Progressive Group of Insurance Companies, in business since 1937, is one of the country's largest auto insurance groups, the largest seller of motorcycle and personal watercraft policies, and a market leader in commercial auto insurance based on premiums written.
Progressive is committed to becoming consumers' #1 choice for auto insurance by providing competitive rates and innovative products and services that meet drivers' needs throughout their lifetimes, including superior online and in-person customer service, and best-in-class, 24-hour claims service, such as its concierge level of claims service available at service centers located in major metropolitan areas throughout the United States.
Progressive companies offer consumers choices in how to shop for, buy, and manage their auto insurance policies. Progressive offers its products, including personal and commercial auto, motorcycle, boat, and recreational vehicle insurance, through more than 30,000 independent insurance agencies throughout the U.S. and online and by phone directly from the Company. Private passenger auto products and prices are different when purchased directly from Progressive or through independent agencies. To find an agent or to get a quote, go to .
http://www.progressive.com
The Common Shares of The Progressive Corporation, the Mayfield Village, Ohio-based holding company, are publicly traded at NYSE:PGR. For more information, including a guide to interpreting the monthly reporting package, visit .
http://www.progressive.com
Safe Harbor Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Statements in this release that are not historical fact are forward-looking statements that are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events and results to differ materially from those discussed herein. These risks and uncertainties include, without limitation, uncertainties related to estimates, assumptions, and projections generally; inflation and changes in economic conditions (including changes in interest rates and financial markets); the financial condition of, and other issues relating to the strength of and liquidity available to, issuers of securities held in our investment portfolios and other companies with which we have ongoing business relationships, including counterparties to certain financial transactions; the accuracy and adequacy of our pricing and loss reserving methodologies; the competitiveness of our pricing and the effectiveness of our initiatives to retain more customers; initiatives by competitors and the effectiveness of our response; our ability to obtain regulatory approval for requested rate changes and the timing thereof; the effectiveness of our brand strategy and advertising campaigns relative to those of competitors; legislative and regulatory developments; disputes relating to intellectual property rights; the outcome of litigation pending or that may be filed against us; weather conditions (including the severity and frequency of storms, hurricanes, snowfalls, hail, and winter conditions); changes in driving patterns and loss trends; acts of war and terrorist activities; our ability to maintain the uninterrupted operation of our facilities, systems (including information technology systems), and business functions; court decisions and trends in litigation and health care and auto repair costs; and other matters described from time to time in our releases and publications, and in our periodic reports and other documents filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, investors should be aware that generally accepted accounting principles prescribe when a company may reserve for particular risks, including litigation exposures. Accordingly, results for a given reporting period could be significantly affected if and when a reserve is established for one or more contingencies. Also, our regular reserve reviews may result in adjustments of varying magnitude as additional information regarding pending loss and loss adjustment expense reserves becomes known. Reported results, therefore, may be volatile in certain accounting periods.
 


