FILE:PGR/PGR-8K-20100308084146.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(e) On March 3, 2010, the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors of The Progressive Corporation approved the First Amendment to The Progressive Corporation 2010 Equity Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1. The First Amendment modifies certain performance criteria that are eligible for use under this plan in formulating performance-based equity awards for eligible senior employees, including our named executive officers. The plan, including the modifications made by the First Amendment, remain subject to shareholder approval at our Annual Meeting of Shareholders in April 2010. Accordingly, our 2010 Proxy Statement will include a detailed summary of the plan provisions, as amended.
 
(d) Exhibits
See exhibit index on page 4.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: March 8, 2010
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
WHEREAS, The Progressive Corporation 2010 Equity Incentive Plan (the "Plan") was approved by the Board of Directors on January 29, 2010 and will be submitted to shareholders for approval at the Company's upcoming Annual Meeting of Shareholders; and
WHEREAS, it is deemed desirable to amend the Plan;
NOW, THEREFORE, the Plan is hereby amended as follows:
1. The definition of the term "Performance Goals", as set forth in Section 1(c) of the Plan, is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
means the performance goals selected and established by the Committee with respect to any Performance-Based Award, which shall be based on objective criteria relating to one or more of the following measures:
"Performance Goals"
(i) Profitability:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(ii) Growth:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(iii) Other:
 
 
 
Performance goals may be measured on a company-wide, subsidiary or business unit basis, or any combination thereof. Performance goals may reflect absolute entity performance or a relative comparison of entity performance to the performance of a peer group of entities or other external measure.
2. Except as expressly modified hereby, the terms of the Plan shall be unchanged.


