FILE:PGR/PGR-8K-20100714084348.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 14, 2010, The Progressive Corporation issued a news release containing financial results for the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries for the month of, and year-to-date period ended, June 2010 and selected quarterly financial results. A copy of the news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.
 
 
See exhibit index on page 4.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: July 14, 2010
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
MAYFIELD VILLAGE, OHIO  July 14, 2010  The Progressive Corporation today reported the following results for June and the second quarter 2010:
 
 
Progressive offers insurance to personal and commercial auto drivers throughout the United States. Our Personal Lines business writes insurance for personal autos and recreational vehicles. Our Commercial Auto business writes primary liability, physical damage, and other auto-related insurance for autos and trucks owned by small businesses.
See the "Income Statements" and "Supplemental Information" for further month and year-to-date information and the "Monthly Commentary" at the end of this release for additional discussion.
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following table sets forth the comprehensive income for the period:
 
 
The following table sets forth the investment results for the period:
 
 
 
 
 
 
NM = Not Meaningful
 
 
 
 
 
Monthly Commentary
 
 
 
 
Upcoming Events
Progressive is scheduled to hold a one-hour conference call to address questions on Friday, August 6, 2010 at 10:00 a.m., eastern time, subsequent to the posting of our Shareholders' Report online and the filing of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q with the SEC. Registration for the teleconference and webcast is available at .
http://investors.progressive.com/events.aspx
We are currently scheduled to release July results on Wednesday, August 18, 2010, before the market opens.
About Progressive
The Progressive Group of Insurance Companies, in business since 1937, is one of the country's largest auto insurance groups, the largest seller of motorcycle policies, and a market leader in commercial auto insurance based on premiums written.
Progressive is committed to becoming consumers' #1 choice for auto insurance by providing competitive rates and innovative products and services that meet drivers' needs throughout their lifetimes, including superior online and in-person customer service, and best-in-class, 24-hour claims service, such as its concierge level of claims service available at service centers located in major metropolitan areas throughout the United States.
Progressive companies offer consumers choices in how to shop for, buy, and manage their auto insurance policies. Progressive offers its products, including personal and commercial auto, motorcycle, boat, and recreational vehicle insurance, through more than 30,000 independent insurance agencies throughout the U.S. and online and by phone directly from the Company. Personal auto products and prices are different when purchased directly from Progressive or through independent agencies. To find an agent or to get a quote, go to . Progressive also has a branch that sells car insurance policies online in Australia at .
http://www.progressive.com
http://www.progressivedirect.com.au
The Common Shares of The Progressive Corporation, the Mayfield Village, Ohio-based holding company, are publicly traded at NYSE:PGR. For more information, including a guide to interpreting the monthly reporting package, visit .
http://www.progressive.com
 
Safe Harbor Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:
Statements in this report that are not historical fact are forward-looking statements that are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events and results to differ materially from those discussed herein. These risks and uncertainties include, without limitation, uncertainties related to estimates, assumptions, and projections generally; inflation and changes in economic conditions (including changes in interest rates and financial markets); the financial condition of, and other issues relating to the strength of and liquidity available to, issuers of securities held in our investment portfolios and other companies with which we have ongoing business relationships, including counterparties to certain financial transactions; the accuracy and adequacy of our pricing and loss reserving methodologies; the competitiveness of our pricing and the effectiveness of our initiatives to retain more customers; initiatives by competitors and the effectiveness of our response; our ability to obtain regulatory approval for requested rate changes and the timing thereof; the effectiveness of our brand strategy and advertising campaigns relative to those of competitors; legislative and regulatory developments, including, but not limited to, health care reform and tax law changes; disputes relating to intellectual property rights; the outcome of litigation pending or that may be filed against us; weather conditions (including the severity and frequency of storms, hurricanes, snowfalls, hail, and winter conditions); changes in driving patterns and loss trends; acts of war and terrorist activities; our ability to maintain the uninterrupted operation of our facilities, systems (including information technology systems), and business functions; court decisions and trends in litigation and health care and auto repair costs; and other matters described from time to time in our releases and publications, and in our periodic reports and other documents filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, investors should be aware that generally accepted accounting principles prescribe when a company may reserve for particular risks, including litigation exposures. Accordingly, results for a given reporting period could be significantly affected if and when a reserve is established for one or more contingencies. Also, our regular reserve reviews may result in adjustments of varying magnitude as additional information regarding claims activity becomes known. Reported results, therefore, may be volatile in certain accounting periods.
 


