FILE:PGR/PGR-8K-20101022085633.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 22, 2010, The Progressive Corporation issued a news release announcing that its Board of Directors had declared an extraordinary cash dividend of $1.00 per Common Share, payable December 29, 2010 to shareholders of record at the close of business on December 20, 2010. A copy of the news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.
 
(d) Exhibits
See exhibit index on page 4.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
MAYFIELD VILLAGE, OHIO  October 22, 2010  The Progressive Corporation today announced that its Board of Directors has declared an extraordinary cash dividend of $1.00 per Common Share, payable December 29, 2010 to shareholders of record at the close of business on December 20, 2010.
Glenn M. Renwick, the Company's President and Chief Executive Officer commented: "We are pleased to return approximately $660 million to our shareholders through this special dividend. This action is consistent with our published policy of returning capital to our shareholders when appropriate. The combination of strong operating and investment results has increased our capital to a level that allows us to pay the dividend at this time."
The Company further announced that the issuance of this extraordinary dividend would not affect the Company's annual, variable dividend program for 2010. For more information on the Company's variable dividend policy, visit the Company's Web site at .
http://investors.progressive.com/dividend.aspx
About Progressive
The Progressive Group of Insurance Companies makes it easy to understand, buy, and use . Progressive offers so consumers can reach us whenever, wherever, and however it's most convenient for themonline at progressive.com, by phone at 1-800-PROGRESSIVE, or in-person with a local agent.
auto insurance
choices
Progressive offers insurance for personal and commercial autos and trucks, motorcycles, boats, recreational vehicles, and homes. It's the fourth largest auto insurer in the country, the largest seller of , and a leader in . Progressive also offers in Australia at http://www.progressivedirect.com.au.
motorcycle insurance
commercial auto insurance
car insurance online
Founded in 1937, Progressive continues its long history of offering shopping tools and services that save customers time and money, like Name Your Price, the Snapshot Discount, and a concierge level of claims service.
The Common Shares of The Progressive Corporation, the Mayfield Village, Ohio-based holding company, trade publicly at NYSE:PGR.


