FILE:PGR/PGR-8K-20110617080646.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
Ms. Miller is President of International at J.P. Morgan, a leading financial services firm with operations in more than 60 countries. In this capacity, she leads the firm's significant global expansion efforts and spearheads the development of its international business strategy across the Investment Bank, Asset Management, and Treasury & Securities Services divisions. Ms. Miller also jointly leads J.P. Morgan Global Corporate Bank. As a member of J.P. Morgan's operating committee, she plays an integral role on the management team of JPMorgan Chase & Co. Most recently, Ms. Miller was the CEO of J.P. Morgan Treasury & Securities Services from January 2004 to June 2010. In that role, she led the division to become one of the world's largest cash management providers. Ms. Miller currently serves on the Board of Directors of General Mills, Inc., as a Trustee for Princeton University and on the Board of Conservation International.
There are no arrangements or understandings between Ms. Miller and any other person, pursuant to which she was elected as a director. Ms. Miller's compensation as a director will be provided on the same basis as that provided to the Company's other non-employee directors, as further described in the Company's Proxy Statement dated March 18, 2011, at pages 53-54.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: June 17, 2011
 
 


