FILE:PGR/PGR-8K-20110503085152.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(e) On April 28, 2011, the Compensation Committee of the Board of directors approved the Third Amendment to The Progressive Corporation Executive Separation Allowance Plan (2006 Amendment and Restatement). The Executive Separation Allowance Plan provides specified severance rights to our executive officers and certain other senior employees. Under the Third Amendment, the severance payments that would be payable to our chief executive officer and the executive officers reporting to him or her, upon a qualifying separation from the Company, would be graduated depending on the individual's years of service with the Company, as follows:
 
 
 
Prior to this amendment, the chief executive officer and each of the executive officers reporting to him or her were automatically entitled to receive a severance payment equal to 156 weeks of Compensation upon a qualifying separation from the Company, without regard to the amount of time that he or she had been employed by the Company. Under the plan, the term "Compensation" continues to mean only the individual's rate of salary or base pay at the time of his or her separation from the Company, excluding bonus payments (such as Gainsharing), equity awards, and other forms of remuneration. Each of the named executive officers identified in our Proxy Statement dated March 18, 2011 has more than two years of service with the Company.
Item 5.07 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
(a) At the Annual Meeting of Shareholders held on April 29, 2011, 576,412,698 common shares were represented in person or by proxy.
(b) At the meeting, shareholders elected the two directors named below. The votes cast with respect to each director were as follows:
 
The following are the directors whose terms continued after the meeting:
 
Also at the Annual Meeting, shareholders took the following actions:
 
 
 
 
 
(d) Following the Annual Meeting of Shareholders, the Board of Directors determined that the Company will submit an advisory vote to shareholders on an annual basis to approve the Company's compensation for its executives as set forth in its proxy statement for the year.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On April 29, 2011, the Board of Directors appointed Stephen R. Hardis to its Audit Committee. No changes were made to the Board's other Committees.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: May 3, 2011
 
 


