FILE:PGR/PGR-8K-20120202091738.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(e) On January 27, 2012, the Board of Directors approved the Fourth Amendment to The Progressive Corporation 2010 Equity Incentive Plan, which would add an investment-related performance criterion to the list of permissible performance goals under that plan. The amendment, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1, was approved subject to shareholder approval at the Company's 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Accordingly, a more complete description of the amendment and the 2010 Equity Incentive Plan will be included in our 2012 Proxy Statement.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
The Board also approved Amendment No. 2 to The Progressive Corporation 2003 Directors Equity Incentive Plan. This amendment would (i) extend the term of the plan through January 2018 (from its current expiration of January 2013), (ii) eliminate a buyout provision relating to stock option awards, and (iii) change the definition of "change in control" under that plan to conform to the definition used in Internal Revenue Code Section 409A and in our 2010 Equity Incentive Plan reference above. This amendment was also approved subject to shareholder approval at the Company's 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and will be described in more detail in our 2012 Proxy Statement. A copy of this amendment is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.2.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
See exhibit index on page 4.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: February 2, 2012
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
WHEREAS, The Progressive Corporation 2010 Equity Incentive Plan, as previously amended (the "Plan"), is currently in effect; and
WHEREAS, it is deemed desirable to amend the Plan;
NOW, THEREFORE, the Plan is hereby amended as follows:
1. Subject to Paragraph 2 below, the definition of the term "Performance Goals" as set forth in Section 1(b) of the Plan, is hereby amended as follows:
a. The word "and" is hereby deleted from the last line of clause (ii) of such definition.
b. Clause (iii) of such definition is hereby renumbered as clause (iv).
c. A new clause (iii) is hereby inserted in such definition, as follows:
"(iii) Investments:
 
d. The text of such definition immediately following the newly renumbered clause (iv) is hereby deleted in its entirety and the following is substituted in its place:
"Performance goals may be measured on a company-wide, subsidiary or business unit basis, or any combination thereof. Performance goals may reflect absolute entity performance or a relative comparison of entity performance to the performance of a peer group of entities, an index, or other external measure. With respect to investment performance, such goals may also reflect risk adjustment and/or the benefit of any state premium tax abatements attributable to the Company's investment portfolio."
2. The addition of the new performance criterion included in Paragraph 1 above is subject to approval by the holders of The Progressive Corporation's Common Shares, $1.00 par value in accordance with the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code. If shareholders do not approve such new performance criterion at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders in April 2012, this Amendment shall automatically terminate and be of no further force or effect.
This Amendment will be effective as of January 27, 2012.
 

Exhibit 10.2
The Progressive Corporation 2003 Directors Equity Incentive Plan, as previously amended (the "Plan"), is hereby amended as follows:
1. Section 12 of the Plan is hereby deleted in its entirety and the following is substituted in its place:
"
SECTION 12 Term of Plan.
No Award shall be granted pursuant to the Plan on or after January 31, 2018, but Awards granted prior to such date may extend beyond such date."
2. Section 6(c) of the Plan, entitled "Buyout Provisions," is hereby deleted in its entirety.
3. In Section 7 of the Plan:
a. Section 7(b), entitled "Definition of Change in Control," is hereby deleted in its entirety, and the following is substituted in its place:
"(b) . For purposes of Section 7(a), a "Change in Control" means a change in the ownership of the Company, a change in the effective control of the Company, or a change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the Company's assets, each as defined in, and determined in accordance with, Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code."
Definition of Change in Control
b. Section 7(c), entitled "Definition of Potential Change in Control," is hereby deleted in its entirety, and the following is substituted in its place:
"(c) Intentionally omitted."
In addition, all references to "Potential Change in Control" in Sections 7(a) and 7(d), and the defined term "Potential Change in Control" in Section 1(c), are hereby deleted from the Plan.
4. This Amendment is subject to approval by the holders of The Progressive Corporation's Common Shares, $1.00 par value, in accordance with the requirements of the New York Stock Exchange. If shareholders do not approve this Amendment at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders in April 2012, this Amendment shall automatically terminate and be of no further force or effect.
This Amendment will be effective as of January 27, 2012.
 


