FILE:PGR/PGR-8K-20120306080354.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(e) On February 29, 2012, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors approved the 2012 Progressive Capital Management Bonus Plan (the "2012 Plan"), a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1. Under the 2012 Plan, our investment professionals, including William Cody, our Chief Investment Officer, can earn an annual cash bonus based on their performance, as determined by the Committee. First, the performance of our fixed-income portfolio over one-year (2012) and three-year (2010-2012) periods will be compared with the performance of an investment benchmark comprised of similar investment firms to generate an indicated performance score for the year. The Committee then may consider such other information, and/or may consult with others (directors, outside experts, management, etc.), as the Committee deems advisable relating to the performance of our fixed-income portfolio for the year. Based on this information, the Committee will determine a performance factor of between 0.0 and 2.0 for the year. This performance factor will then be multiplied by the participant's target bonus amount (the product of the participant's paid eligible earnings times the participant's target percentage) to calculate the participant's cash bonus under the Plan for the year.
Also on February 29, 2012, the Committee determined Mr. Cody's bonus relating to the performance of our fixed-income portfolio for 2011. Using the same methodology as outlined above for the 2012 Plan, an indicated performance score of .92 was calculated based on comparisons of our performance with an investment benchmark of 190 similar investment firms. The Committee reviewed this calculation, our underlying performance and the relative ranking of our results against the results of the investment benchmark group for the relevant one- and three-year periods, and made such additional inquiries and consultations as they deemed appropriate regarding our investment performance for the year. Based on this information, the Committee determined that a performance factor of .92 would be used to determine Mr. Cody's investment-related bonus for the year, using the same calculation described above under the 2012 Plan.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
See exhibit index on page 4.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: March 6, 2012
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
The Company's investment professionals invest the funds of the Company in accordance with investment guidelines approved from time to time by the Investment and Capital Committee of the Board of Directors. Those guidelines address such matters as minimum average credit quality and the duration of the portfolio, as well as limitations on the extent to which the portfolio can be concentrated in individual issuers. Compliance with the guidelines is routinely monitored and variations therefrom must be reported to, and approved by, the Investment and Capital Committee.
 
 
 
Annual Bonus = Paid Eligible Earnings x Target Percentage x Performance Factor
 
For purposes of the Plan, Paid Eligible Earnings shall exclude all other types of compensation, including, without limitation, any short-term or long-term disability payments
made to the participant, the earnings replacement component of any worker's compensation award, payments from any discretionary cash fund or any other bonus or incentive compensation or equity-based awards, any dividend payments and any unused Earned Time Benefit.
 
 
First, an indicated performance factor will be determined based on the fully taxable equivalent total return of the Fixed-Income Portfolio, in comparison to the total returns of the group of comparable investment firms identified by Rogers Casey (the "Investment Benchmark"), over the one-and three-year periods ending on December 31 of the Plan year, as described below. After the end of the Plan year, Rogers Casey will determine the firms that are included in the Investment Benchmark in accordance with the criteria specified on Exhibit I hereto. Rogers Casey will also provide to the Company the monthly total return data for each of the Investment Benchmark firms for the three-year period ending on December 31 of the Plan year.
Investment results for the Fixed-Income Portfolio will be marked to market, including the benefit of any state premium tax abatements for municipal securities held in the Portfolio that are realized by the Company during the Plan year, in order to calculate the Portfolio's fully taxable equivalent total return for the one-year (2012) and three-year period (2010-2012) periods, in each case compounded on a monthly basis. The investment performance achieved by the Fixed-Income Portfolio for the one-and three-year periods will then be compared against the total returns of the firms included in the Investment Benchmark for the same periods, also compounded on a monthly basis, as determined by the Company from the monthly performance data supplied by Rogers Casey for each firm in the Investment Benchmark, to determine, for each comparison period, where the Fixed Income Portfolio's performance falls on a percentile basis when compared to the firms in the Investment Benchmark, as further described on Exhibit II ("Performance Ranking").
The Portfolio's Performance Ranking will be used to determine a performance score of between 0 and 2.0 for each comparison period, based on the following schedule:
 
A Performance Ranking between the values identified in the schedule will be interpolated on a straight-line basis to generate the applicable performance score, as further described on
Exhibit II. Once these performance scores are determined, an overall indicated performance factor will be determined by averaging the performance scores for the one- and three-year comparison periods.
The overall indicated performance factor will be reported to the Compensation Committee after the expiration of the Plan year, together with such supporting documentation as the Committee may require. The Committee may consider such additional information as it deems necessary or appropriate in its discretion. Such information may include, without limitation:
 
 
 
 
In addition, the Committee may choose to consult with others, including, without limitation, management, the Board's Investment and Capital Committee, other Board members, and outside compensation and investment professionals, in evaluating the performance of the Company's investment professionals for the year. The Committee will then determine the Performance Factor, provided that under no circumstances may the Performance Factor exceed 2.0 for the year.
 
 
Any Plan participant who is eligible to participate in The Progressive Corporation Executive Deferred Compensation Plan ("Deferral Plan") may elect to defer all or any portion of his or her Annual Bonus otherwise payable under this Plan, subject to and in accordance with the terms of the Deferral Plan.
 
 
 
 
The Committee will have full authority to determine the manner in which the Plan will operate, to interpret the provisions of the Plan and to make all determinations thereunder. All such interpretations and determinations will be final and binding on Progressive, all Plan participants and all other parties. No such interpretation or determination may be relied on as a precedent for any similar action or decision.
Unless otherwise determined by the Committee and except as provided in the immediately succeeding paragraph, all of the authority of the Committee hereunder (including, without limitation, the authority to administer the Plan, select the persons entitled to participate herein, interpret the provisions hereof, waive any of the requirements specified herein and make determinations hereunder and to establish, approve, change or modify Investment Benchmarks, Performance Targets and Target Percentages) may be exercised by the Designated Officers. If one or more of said officers is unavailable or unable to participate, or if such position is vacant, the Chief Financial Officer may act instead of such officer.
Notwithstanding anything in this Plan to the contrary, all determinations made under this Plan with respect to the CIO or any other individual deemed to be an executive officer of the Company under applicable SEC or NYSE rules must be made only by the Compensation Committee.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
After the end of the Plan year, Rogers Casey will determine the firms comprising the Investment Benchmark for the Plan year from its records and will supply to the Company the monthly total returns and any other relevant data for each of those firms for the three-year period ending on December 31 of the Plan year.
A firm will be included in the Investment Benchmark if Rogers Casey is able to determine from its records that:
 
 
 
 
Once all the total returns are calculated, the data is sorted in descending order from highest to lowest total return. From here, the process to compute the Performance Factor is as follows (this Exhibit shows the procedures and related calculations for the 1-year comparison period required by the Plan; the calculations for the 3-year comparison period would follow the same procedures, except that necessary adjustments would be made to determine the top and bottom 25% levels and the performance score variances between those levels):
INTERPOLATED VALUES FOR SETTING TOP AND BOTTOM 15% LEVELS
The top 15% and bottom 15% total return rankings are computed based on the total number of firms in the Investment Benchmark, excluding the PCM Fixed-Income Portfolio return. For example, if there were 279 participants, the return required to earn a 2.0 portfolio performance factor would be determined by interpolating between the forty-first and forty-second firm's returns, since 15% of 279 = 41.85. The same procedure would be used to determine the 0.0 portfolio performance factor.
The total returns, computed by Investment Accounting, for the interpolated positions are calculated as follows (continuing to use an example of 279 survey firms):
Interpolated Value = Firm 41 return  ((Firm 41 Return  Firm 42 Return)*0.85)
Firm 41 = 18.35%
Firm 42 = 18.23%
Firm 41.85 (Interpolated Value) = 18.35%  ((18.35%-18.23%)*0.85) = 18.25%.
In this case, the PCM Performance Factor will equal 2.0 if its total return equals the interpolated value for Firm 41.85 of 18.25%. A similar calculation is then used to determine the bottom 15% group and interpolated value for a 0.0 performance score.
Once the two groups are computed, top and bottom 15%, the remainder of the performance scores are calculated as follows:
Performance score variance = (2.00) / Number of positions from first participant after the top 15% ranking to the 1
st
participant in the bottom 15% ranking. In the case of 279 participants, the number of positions to divide the 2.00 performance factors by would be 198.
The calculation for the performance score variance from 2.00  0.00 would be:
2.00 / 198 = .010101 per position for 279 firms
In the case of a tie in total returns between firms, each firm will have the same performance score, one step under the next higher position. The next lowest position would then be stepped down by a factor based on the number of participants who tie. In the case of a tie between two firms, the step down will be twice the performance score variance to maintain the proper stepping to the 0.00
performance score level.
Example: If firms 42 and 43 each had the same total return in the 279 firm example, then firms 42 and 43 would each have a Performance Factor of 1.989899, which is 2.00  .0010101. The number 44 position in this example would have a performance score of 1.969697, which is the required step down from 42 to 44.
In addition, if the returns are tied between the interpolated value set for the 2.00 performance score and any position below the 2.00 level, those lower positions will also be set to a 2.00 performance score. The step down factor in the performance score will work similarly as noted in the example above. For the last 15% group, all firms with total returns equaling the last interpolated total return value would have the same performance score as the last interpolated value (.0101012), and all others in the last 15% group would have a 0.00 Portfolio Performance Factor.
Once all the performance scores have been created, from 2.00 to 0.00, PCM's return is compared to the rankings to determine its Performance Factor. If the PCM return is not in the top or bottom 15% and does not match the return of any participant, then PCM's Performance Factor is an interpolated value between the firms with the next highest and next lowest returns.
The interpolation computation for the Performance Factor based on PCM's return is as follows:
Performance score of firm below PCM return + (PCM's Return  Return below PCM) / (Return above PCM  Return below PCM) * (Performance score of firm above PCM  Performance score of firm below PCM)
Assuming the following data, using the 279 firm example:
 
The calculation of PCM's Performance Factor is:
0.89 + (13.39-13.34) / (13.61-13.34) * (0.90-0.89) = 0.89
The final performance score is rounded to the nearest one-hundredth, if necessary.


