FILE:AEE/AEE-8K-20031205161840.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, DC 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): December 5, 2003
ITEM 5. OTHER EVENTS AND REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE. On December 5, 2003, Ameren Corporation (Ameren) issued a press release announcing that it is in exclusive discussions with Dynegy Inc. regarding the possible acquisition of Illinois Power Company. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by this reference. This combined Form 8-K is being filed separately by Ameren, Union Electric Company, Central Illinois Public Service Company, Ameren Energy Generating Company, CILCORP Inc. and Central Illinois Light Company (Registrants). Information contained herein relating to any individual registrant has been filed by such registrant on its own behalf. No registrant makes any representation as to information relating to any other registrant. ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS. (a) Financial Statements: Not applicable (b) Pro Forma Financial Information: Not applicable (c) Exhibits: Exhibit No. Description ------- ----------- 99.1 Press Release issued on December 5, 2003 by Ameren Corporation.
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Exchange Act, each registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. The signature for each undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to such company or its subsidiaries. AMEREN CORPORATION (Registrant) /s/ Martin J. Lyons ------------------------------------- Martin J. Lyons Vice President and Controller (Principal Accounting Officer) UNION ELECTRIC COMPANY (Registrant) /s/ Martin J. Lyons ------------------------------------- Martin J. Lyons Vice President and Controller (Principal Accounting Officer) CENTRAL ILLINOIS PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY (Registrant) /s/ Martin J. Lyons ------------------------------------- Martin J. Lyons Vice President and Controller (Principal Accounting Officer) AMEREN ENERGY GENERATING COMPANY (Registrant) /s/ Martin J. Lyons ------------------------------------- Martin J. Lyons Vice President and Controller (Principal Accounting Officer)
CILCORP Inc. (Registrant) /s/ Martin J. Lyons ------------------------------------- Martin J. Lyons Vice President and Controller (Principal Accounting Officer) Central Illinois Light Company (Registrant) /s/ Martin J. Lyons ------------------------------------- Martin J. Lyons Vice President and Controller (Principal Accounting Officer) Date: December 5, 2003
Exhibit Index ------------- Exhibit No. Description - ----------- ----------- 99.1 Press release issued on December 5, 2003 by Ameren Corporation.

Exhibit 99.1 [GRAPHIC OMITTED][GRAPHIC OMITTED] One Ameren Plaza 1901 Chouteau Avenue St. Louis, MO 63103 Contact: Media Analysts Investors Susan Gallagher Bruce Steinke Investor Services (314) 554-2175 (314) 554-2574 invest@ameren.com sgallagher@ameren.com bsteinke@ameren.com FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE AMEREN ENTERS INTO EXCLUSIVE NEGOTIATIONS FOR THE ACQUISITION OF ILLINOIS POWER FROM DYNEGY INC. St. Louis, Mo., Dec. 5, 2003---Ameren Corporation (NYSE: AEE) today announced that the company is in exclusive discussions with Dynegy Inc. (NYSE: DYN) on the possible acquisition by Ameren of Decatur, Il.-based Illinois Power Company. There can be no assurance that these discussions will lead to an agreement or that any such agreement would be completed. Illinois Power is an electric and natural gas distribution and transmission utility serving 590,000 electric and 415,000 gas customers in areas contiguous to Ameren's existing Illinois utility service territories. Ameren, through its subsidiaries, AmerenCILCO, AmerenCIPS and AmerenUE, currently serves more than 970,000 electric and gas customers in Illinois and has approximately 3,200 employees in Illinois. Ameren has a track record of providing high-quality, reliable electric and natural gas services in Illinois, and if a transaction is consummated, would commit to bringing this same level of performance to the customers and communities served by Illinois Power. In addition, and consistent with its past acquisitions of AmerenCILCO and AmerenCIPS, Ameren would maintain Illinois Power's headquarters in Decatur, Ill., honor all existing labor agreements and bring long-term value to all stakeholders. Further, Ameren would not propose any special legislation to complete this acquisition. Any transaction between the parties would be subject to satisfactory completion of Ameren's due diligence, negotiation of final terms and structure, negotiation and execution of definitive agreements, receipt of approvals from the boards of directors of both companies and required regulatory approvals, in addition to other conditions. Ameren does not anticipate making any further announcements until a definitive agreement is reached or the discussions are terminated. -- more --
Add one With assets of $13.5 billion, Ameren owns a diverse mix of electric generating plants strategically located in its Midwest market with a capacity of more than 14,500 megawatts. Ameren serves 1.7 million electric customers and 500,000 natural gas customers in a 49,000 square-mile area of Missouri and Illinois. Forward-Looking Statements - -------------------------- Statements made in this release, which are not based on historical facts, are "forward-looking" and, accordingly, involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed. Although such "forward-looking" statements have been made in good faith and are based on reasonable assumptions, there is no assurance that the expected results will be achieved. These statements include (without limitation) statements as to future expectations, beliefs, plans, strategies, objectives, events, conditions, and financial performance. In connection with the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, the company is providing this cautionary statement to identify important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. The following factors, in addition to those discussed elsewhere in this release and in past and subsequent securities filings, could cause actual results to differ materially from management expectations as suggested by such "forward-looking" statements: o the satisfactory completion of Ameren's due diligence; o the parties ability to negotiate final terms and structure and to negotiate and execute definitive transaction agreements; o the receipt of board of directors and required regulatory approvals; and o the satisfaction of other conditions precedent to the consummation of any such transaction. # # #


