FILE:AEE/AEE-8K-20041014110216.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 ------------------------------------- FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of report (Date of earliest event reported): October 8, 2004
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions: [ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c)) -2-
SECTION 5 - CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT ITEM 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers. On October 8, 2004, Ameren Corporation ("Ameren") announced among other subsidiary level organization changes the election of Scott A. Cisel as President of its Illinois-based utility subsidiaries, Central Illinois Public Service Company ("CIPS"), Central Illinois Light Company ("CILCO") and Illinois Power Company ("IPC") to replace Gary L. Rainwater effective October 15, 2004. Mr. Cisel will serve as the principal operating officer of these companies and Mr. Rainwater will continue as principal executive officer of each company. In conjunction with his election as President, Mr. Cisel was also elected to fill a vacancy on the Board of Directors of CIPS and IPC effective October 15, 2004. He is already a member of CILCO's Board of Directors. Mr. Cisel, age 51, assumed the position of Vice President of IPC in September 2004 upon Ameren's acquisition of IPC. He assumed the position of Vice President and Chief Operating Officer for CILCO upon Ameren's acquisition of CILCO in January 2003 after serving as Senior Vice President. Prior to that, Mr. Cisel had held various management positions at CILCO in sales, customer services and district operations, including service as manager of Commercial Office Operations in 1981, manager of Consumer and Energy Services in 1984, manager of Rates, Sales and Customer Service in 1988, director of Corporate Sales in 1993 and from 1995 to 2001, at first managing Sales and Marketing, then Legislative and Public Affairs and later Sales, Marketing and Trading. In April 2001, he was named Senior Vice President of CILCO. ITEM 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year. On October 8, 2004, the Bylaws of CIPS, CILCO and IPC were amended by action by unanimous written consent of the Board of Directors of each of these companies as follows: o The position of Chief Operating Officer was added as a principal officer of these companies which may be elected by their Boards of Directors. o With respect to CIPS' and CILCO's Bylaws, the size of the Board of Directors was changed to not less than 3 and not more than 8 directors. o With respect to CIPS' and IPC's Bylaws, the principal officer positions were revised to permit a separate President and Chief Executive Officer. o With respect to CIPS' Bylaws, the position of Chairman of the Board was added as a principal officer which may be elected by the Board of Directors. For additional information, reference is made to the Bylaws of CIPS, CILCO and IPC, as amended October 8, 2004, which are included as Exhibits 3.1, 3.2 and 3.3, respectively, hereto and incorporated by reference herein. SECTION 9 - FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits. (c) Exhibits This combined Form 8-K is being filed separately by Ameren, CIPS, CILCO and IPC (each a "registrant"). Information contained herein relating to any individual registrant has been filed by such registrant on its own behalf. No registrant makes any representation as to information relating to any other registrant. -3-
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. The signature for each undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to such company or its subsidiaries. AMEREN CORPORATION (Registrant) /s/ Martin J. Lyons ---------------------------------------- Martin J. Lyons Vice President and Controller (Principal Accounting Officer) CENTRAL ILLINOIS PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY (Registrant) /s/ Martin J. Lyons ---------------------------------------- Martin J. Lyons Vice President and Controller (Principal Accounting Officer) CENTRAL ILLINOIS LIGHT COMPANY (Registrant) /s/ Martin J. Lyons ---------------------------------------- Martin J. Lyons Vice President and Controller (Principal Accounting Officer) ILLINOIS POWER COMPANY (Registrant) /s/ Martin J. Lyons ---------------------------------------- Martin J. Lyons Vice President and Controller (Principal Accounting Officer) Date: October 14, 2004 -4-

Exhibit 3.1 BYLAWS OF CENTRAL ILLINOIS PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY As Amended October 8, 2004 ARTICLE I SHARES AND TRANSFERS Section 1. Each holder of duly paid shares of the Company shall be entitled to a certificate or certificates stating the number and class of shares owned by such holder. Such certificates shall be signed by the appropriate officers of the Company (which, in the absence of contrary action by the Board, shall be the President or any Vice President and the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary of the Company); shall be sealed with the corporate seal of the Company, which seal may be facsimile; and shall be countersigned by a Transfer Agent, and countersigned and registered by a Registrar, appointed by the Board. If a certificate is countersigned by a Transfer Agent and countersigned and registered by a Registrar, other (in each case) than the Company itself or its employee, the signature of either or both of such officers of the Company, and the countersignature of any such Transfer Agent or its officer or employee, may be facsimiles. In case any officer of the Company, or any officer or employee of a Transfer Agent, who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon any such certificate shall cease to be an officer of the Company or an officer or an employee of the Transfer Agent, as the case may be, before such certificate is issued, the certificate may be issued by the Company with the same effect as if such officer of the Company or such officer or employee of the Transfer Agent had not ceased to be such at the date of issue of such certificate. Section 2. Shares shall be transferable only on the books of the Company and upon proper endorsement and surrender of the outstanding certificate or certificates representing such shares. If an outstanding certificate shall be lost, destroyed or stolen, the holder thereof may have a new certificate upon producing evidence satisfactory to the Company of such loss, destruction or theft and upon furnishing to the Company, the Transfer Agent and the Registrar indemnity deemed sufficient by the Company. Section 3. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Article I, the Board of Directors may also provide by resolution that some or all of any or all classes and series of its shares shall be uncertificated shares, provided that such resolution shall not apply to shares represented by a certificate until such certificate is surrendered to the Company. Except as otherwise provided by statute, the rights and obligations of the holders of uncertificated shares and the rights and obligations of the holders of certificates representing shares of the same class and series shall be identical.
ARTICLE II MEETINGS OF SHAREHOLDERS Section 1. The annual meeting of the shareholders shall be held on the fourth Tuesday in April of each year (or if such day shall be a legal holiday, then upon the next succeeding day not a legal holiday) or upon such other day determined by resolution of the Board of Directors. Each such regular annual meeting shall be held at such time and at such location, within or without the State of Illinois, as the Board of Directors shall order. At such annual meeting, a board of directors shall be elected and such other business shall be transacted as may properly come before such meeting. Section 2. Special meetings of the shareholders may be called by the Chairman of the Board, by the President, by the Board of Directors, by the holders of not less than one-fifth of all the outstanding shares entitled to vote on the matter for which the meeting is called, or in such other manner as may be provided by statute. Each such special meeting shall be held at such location, within or without the State of Illinois, as the Board of Directors shall order. Section 3. Written notice of the place, day and hour of each meeting of shareholders and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called, shall be given to each shareholder of record entitled to vote at such meeting. Such notice shall be sent by mail to each such shareholder, at the address of such shareholder as it appears on the records of the Company, not less than ten days or more than sixty days before the date of the meeting, except in cases where some other special method of notice may be required by statute, in which case the statutory method shall be followed. Notice of any meeting of the shareholders may be waived by any shareholder. Attendance of a shareholder (either in person or by proxy) at any meeting shall constitute waiver of notice thereof unless the shareholder (in person or by proxy, as the case may be) at the meeting objects to the holding of the meeting because proper notice was not given. Section 4. At any shareholders' meeting a majority of the shares outstanding and entitled to vote on the matter (excluding such shares as may be owned by the Company) must be represented (either in person or by proxy) in order to constitute a quorum for consideration of such matter, but the shareholders represented at any meeting, though less than a quorum, may adjourn the meeting to some other day or sine die. If a quorum is present (either in person or by proxy) at a shareholders' meeting, the affirmative vote of the holders of the majority of shares represented at the meeting and entitled to vote on a matter shall be the act of the shareholders, unless the vote of a greater number or voting by classes shall be required by law or the Articles of Incorporation. Section 5. The Chairman of the Board or the President and Secretary of the Company shall act as Chairman and Secretary, respectively, of each shareholders' meeting, unless the shareholders represented at the meeting shall otherwise decide. -2-
Section 6. (a) (1) Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors of the Company and the proposal of business to be considered by the shareholders may be made at an annual meeting of shareholders (a) pursuant to the Company's notice of meeting, (b) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (c) by any shareholder of the Company who was a shareholder of record at the time of giving of' notice provided for in this Bylaw, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Bylaw. (2) For nominations or other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a shareholder pursuant to clause (c) of paragraph (a) (1) of this Bylaw, the shareholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Company and such other business must otherwise be a proper matter for shareholder action. To be timely, a shareholder's notice shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Company not later than the close of business on the 60th day nor earlier than the close of business on the 90th day prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is more than 30 days before or more than 60 days after such anniversary date, notice by the shareholder to be timely must be so delivered not earlier than the close of business on the 90th day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 60th day prior to such annual meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made by the Company. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment of an annual meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a shareholder's notice as described above. Such shareholder's notice shall set forth (a) as to each person whom the shareholder proposes to nominate for election or re-election as a director, all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors in an election contest, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") and Rule 14a-11 thereunder (including such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected); (b) as to any other business that the shareholder proposes to bring before the meeting, a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material interest in such business of such shareholder and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made; and (c) as to the shareholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made (i) the name and address of such shareholder, as they appear on the Company's books, and of such beneficial owner and (ii) the class and number of shares of the Company which are owned beneficially and of record by such shareholder and such beneficial owner. (3) Notwithstanding anything in the second sentence of paragraph (a) (2) of this Bylaw to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the Board of Directors of the Company is increased and there is no public announcement by the Company naming all of the nominees for director or specifying the size of the increased Board of Directors at least 70 days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a shareholder's notice required by this Bylaw shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for any new positions created by such increase, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Company not later than the close of business on -3-
the 10th day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the Company. (b) Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of shareholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Company's notice of meeting. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at a special meeting of shareholders at which directors are to be elected pursuant to the Company's notice of meeting (1) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (2) provided that the Board of Directors has determined that directors shall be elected at such meeting, by any shareholder of the Company who is a shareholder of record at the time of giving of notice provided for in this Bylaw, who shall be entitled to vote at the meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Bylaw. In the event the Company calls a special meeting of shareholders for the purpose of electing one or more directors to the Board of Directors, any such shareholder may nominate a person or persons (as the case may be), for election to such position(s) as specified in the Company's notice of meeting, if the shareholder's notice required by paragraph (a) (2) of this Bylaw shall be delivered to the Secretary, at the principal executive offices of the Company not earlier than the close of business on the 90th day prior to such special meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 60th day prior to such special meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the Board of Directors to be elected at such meeting. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment of a special meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a shareholder's notice as described above. (c) (1) Only such persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Bylaw shall be eligible to serve as directors and only such business shall be conducted at a meeting of shareholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Bylaw. Except as otherwise provided by statute, the Articles of Incorporation or these Bylaws, the chairman of the meeting shall have the power and duty to determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made or proposed, as the case may be, in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Bylaw and, if any proposed nomination or business is not in compliance with this Bylaw, to declare that such defective proposal or nomination shall be disregarded. (2) For purposes of this Bylaw, "public announcement" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. (3) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Bylaw, a shareholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this Bylaw. Nothing in this Bylaw shall be deemed to affect any rights (a) of shareholders to request inclusion of proposals in the Company's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act or (b) of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect directors under specified circumstances. -4-
ARTICLE III BOARD OF DIRECTORS Section 1. The business and affairs of the Company shall be managed by or under the direction of the Board of Directors consisting of not less than three (3) or more than eight (8) members. The exact number of directors within the minimum and maximum limitations specified in the preceding sentence shall be fixed from time to time by the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the entire Board of Directors. The Board of Directors shall be elected at each annual meeting of the shareholders, but, if for any reason the election shall not be held at an annual meeting, it may be subsequently held at any special meeting of the shareholders after proper notice. Directors so elected shall hold office until the next succeeding annual meeting of shareholders or until their respective successors, willing to serve, shall have been elected and qualified. Any vacancy occurring in the Board of Directors arising between meetings of shareholders by reason of an increase in the number of directors or otherwise may be filled by a majority of the members of the Board. Section 2. A meeting of the Board of Directors shall be held on the same date as the annual meeting of shareholders in each year, at the same place where such annual meeting shall have been held or at such other place as shall be determined by the Board. Regular meetings of the Board shall be held in such place, within or without the State of Illinois, and on such dates each year as shall be established from time to time by the Board. Notice of every such regular meeting of the Board, stating the place, day and hour of the meeting, shall be given to each director personally, or by telegraph or other written means of electronic communication, or by depositing the same in the mails properly addressed, at least two days before the date of such meeting. Except where required by statute, neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any regular or special meeting of the Board need be specified in the notice or waiver of notice of such meeting. Section 3. Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called at any time by the Chairman of the Board, President, or by a Vice President, when acting as President, or by any two directors. Notice of such meeting, stating the place, day and hour of the meeting shall be given to each director personally in writing, or by telegraph or other written means of electronic communication, or by depositing the same in the mails properly addressed, or orally promptly confirmed by written notice in any one of the aforesaid forms, not less than the day prior to the date of such meeting. Section 4. Notice of any meeting of the Board may be waived by any director. Attendance of a director at any meeting shall constitute waiver of notice of such meeting except where a director attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting to the transaction of any business at the meeting because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened. Section 5. A majority of the Board of Directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting of the Board, but less than a majority of the Board may adjourn the meeting to some other day or sine die. The act of the majority of the directors -5-
present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board unless the vote of a greater number or the vote of any class of directors shall be required by the Articles of Incorporation. The Chief Executive Officer of the Company shall act as Chairman at each meeting of the Board but, in the Chief Executive Officer's absence, the President or one of the directors present at the meeting who shall have been elected for the purpose by majority vote of those directors in attendance shall act as Chairman; and the Secretary of the Company, or in the Secretary's stead, an Assistant Secretary shall act as Secretary at each such meeting. The members of the Board shall receive such compensation as the Board may from time to time by resolution determine. ARTICLE IV COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Section 1. A majority of directors may appoint committees, standing or special, from time to time from among members of the Board, and confer powers on such committees and revoke such powers and terminate the existence of such committees at its pleasure. Section 2. Meetings of any committee may be called in such manner and may be held at such times and places as such committee may by resolution determine, provided that a meeting of any committee may be called at any time by the President of the Company. Members of all committees shall receive such compensation as the Board of Directors may from time to time by resolution determine. Section 3. Each committee shall have such authority of the Board of Directors as shall be granted to it by the Board; provided, however, a committee may not take any action not permitted to be taken by a committee pursuant to the Business Corporation Act of 1983, as amended from time to time. ARTICLE V OFFICERS Section 1. There shall be elected by the Board of Directors (if practicable at its first meeting after the annual election of directors in each year) the following principal officers, namely: A President, such number of Vice Presidents as the Board may from time to time decide upon (any one or more of whom may be designated as Executive Vice President, Senior Vice President or otherwise), a Secretary, a Treasurer and a Controller. References in these Bylaws to Vice Presidents shall include any such Executive Vice President, Senior Vice President or other Vice President, however denominated. The Board may in its discretion also elect a Chairman of the Board and a Chief Operating Officer or such other officers as may from time to time be provided for by the Board. The Chief Executive Officer of the Company shall be the President or Chairman of the Board, as designated by the Board of Directors. In the event that a Chairman of the Board has not been elected, the President shall be the Chief Executive Officer. Any two or more offices may be held by the same person. All officers, unless sooner removed, shall hold -6-
their respective offices until the first meeting of the Board of Directors after the next succeeding annual election of directors and until their successors, willing to serve, shall have been elected, but any officer, including any officer appointed by the President as provided in Section 2 of this Article V, may be removed from office at the pleasure of the Board. Election or appointment of an officer shall not of itself create contract rights. Section 2. The President shall have the general management and direction, subject to the control of the Board of Directors, of the business of the Company, including the power to appoint and to remove and discharge any and all assistant officers, agents and employees of the Company not elected or appointed directly by the Board of Directors. The President may execute for and on behalf of the Company any contracts, deeds, mortgages, leases, bonds, or other instruments and may accomplish such execution either under or without the seal of the Company and either individually or with the Secretary, any Assistant Secretary, or any other officer or person thereunto authorized by the Board of Directors, according to the requirements of the form of the instrument. The President shall have such other powers and duties as usually devolve upon the president of a corporation, and such further powers and duties as may from time to time be prescribed by the Board of Directors. The President may delegate any part of the duties of that office to one or more of the Vice Presidents of the Company. Section 3. Each of the Vice Presidents shall have such powers and duties as may be prescribed for such office by the Board of Directors or as may be prescribed for or delegated to such officer by the President. Each Vice President may execute for and on behalf of the Company any contracts, deeds, mortgages, leases, bonds, or other instruments in each case in accordance with the authority therefor granted by the President or the Board of Directors, which authority may be general or confined to specific instances. Such execution may be accomplished either individually or with any other officer or person thereunto authorized by the President or the Board of Directors, according to the requirements of the form of the instrument. In the absence or inability of the President or in case of the President's death, resignation or removal from office, the powers and duties of the President shall temporarily devolve upon such one of the Vice Presidents as the Board shall have designated or shall designate for the purpose and the Vice President so designated shall have and exercise all the powers and duties of the President during such absence or disability or until the vacancy in the office of President shall be filled. Each Vice President may delegate any part of the duties of that office to employees of the Company under such Vice President's supervision. Section 4. The Secretary shall attend all meetings of the Board of Directors, shall keep a true and faithful record thereof in proper books to be provided for that purpose, and shall have the custody and care of the corporate seal, records, minutes and stock books of the Company. The Secretary shall also act as Secretary of all shareholders' meetings, and keep a record thereof, except to the extent some other person may have been selected to act as Secretary by such meeting. The Secretary shall keep a suitable record of the addresses of shareholders, shall have general charge of the stock transfer books of the Company, and shall, except as may be otherwise -7-
required by statute or by the Bylaws, sign, issue and publish all notices required for meetings of shareholders and for meetings of the Board of Directors. The Secretary shall sign all share certificates, bonds and mortgages, and all other documents and papers to which the Secretary's signature may be necessary or appropriate, shall affix the seal, and shall have such other powers and duties as are commonly incidental to the office of Secretary or as may be prescribed for or delegated to that office by the Board of Directors, by the President, or, if authorized by the Board or the President to prescribe such powers and duties, by a Vice President. The Secretary may delegate any part of the duties of that office to employees of the Company under the Secretary's supervision. Section 5. The Treasurer shall have charge of, and be responsible for, the collection, receipt, custody and disbursement of the funds of the Company, and the deposit of its funds in the name of the Company in such banks, trust companies or safety vaults as the Board of Directors may direct which direction may be general or confined to specific depositories. The Treasurer shall have custody of such books, receipted vouchers and other papers and records as in the practical business operations of the Company shall naturally belong in the office or custody of the Treasurer or as shall be placed in the custody of the Treasurer by the Board of Directors, by the President, or, if authorized by the Board or the President, by a Vice President. The Treasurer shall have such other powers and duties as are commonly incidental to the office of Treasurer or as may be prescribed for or delegated to that office by the Board of Directors, by the President, or, if authorized by the Board or the President to prescribe such powers and duties, by a Vice President. The Treasurer may be required to give a bond to the Company for the faithful discharge of the Treasurer's duties, in such form and in such amount and with such sureties as shall be determined by the Board of Directors. The Treasurer may delegate any part of the Treasurer's duties to employees of the Company under the Treasurer's supervision. Section 6. The Controller shall be the principal accounting officer of the Company. Except as otherwise provided in these Bylaws and except as otherwise provided by the Board of Directors, the Controller will be responsible for the direction of the auditing organization of the Company (other than the Internal Audit function), the establishment and maintenance of accounting procedures, the interpretation of all financial statements and accounting reports of the Company and functional supervision over the records of all other departments of the Company pertaining to revenues, expenses, moneys, securities, properties, materials and supplies. The Controller shall have such other powers and duties as are commonly incidental to the office of Controller or as may be prescribed for or delegated to the Controller by the Board of Directors, by the President, or, if authorized by the Board or the President to prescribe such powers and duties, by a Vice President. The Controller may be required to give a bond to the Company for the faithful discharge of the Controller's duties, in such form and in such amount and with such sureties as shall be determined by the Board of Directors. The Controller may delegate any part of the Controller's duties to employees of the Company under the Controller's supervision. Section 7. The Assistant Vice Presidents, Assistant Secretaries, Assistant Treasurers and Assistant Controllers shall, respectively, assist the Vice Presidents, the Secretary, the Treasurer and the Controller of the Company in the performance of the respective duties assigned to such principal officers and, in assisting the respective principal officer, each assistant officer shall, for -8-
such purposes, have the same powers as the respective principal officer. The powers and duties of any principal officer shall, except as otherwise ordered by the Board of Directors, temporarily devolve upon the respective assistant in case of the absence, disability, death, resignation or removal from office of such principal officer. ARTICLE VI MISCELLANEOUS Section 1. The funds of the Company shall be deposited to its credit in such banks or trust companies, as the Board of Directors from time to time shall approve, which approval may be general or confined to specific instances. Such funds shall be withdrawn only on checks or drafts of the Company or by direct, wire or other electronic transfer of funds for the purposes of the Company in accordance with procedures relating to signatures and authorizations by officers of the Company which are approved by the Board of Directors from time to time, which approval may be general or confined to specific instances. Section 2. No debts shall be contracted except for current expenses unless authorized by the Board of Directors, and no bills shall be paid by the Treasurer unless audited and approved by the Controller or by some other person or committee authorized by the Board of Directors to audit and approve bills for payment. Section 3. All distributions to shareholders and all acquisitions by the Company of its own shares shall be authorized by the Board of Directors. Section 4. The fiscal year of the Company shall close at the end of December annually. Section 5. All or any shares of stock of any corporation owned by the Company may be voted at any meeting of the shareholders of such corporation by the President, any Vice President or the Secretary of the Company upon any question that may be presented at such meeting, and any such officer may, on behalf of the Company, waive any notice of the calling of such meeting required by any statute or Bylaw and consent to the holding of any such meeting without notice. The President, any Vice President or the Secretary of the Company shall have authority to give to any person a written proxy in the name of the Company and under its corporate seal to vote at any meeting of the shareholders of any corporation all or any shares of stock of such corporation owned by the Company upon any question that may be presented at such meeting, with full power to waive any notice of the calling of such meeting required by any statute or Bylaw and to consent to the holding of any such meeting without notice. Section 6. (a) The Company shall indemnify any person who was or is a party, or is threatened to be made a party to, any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (other than an action by or in the right of the Company) by reason of the fact that such person is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Company, or who is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other -9-
enterprise, against expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by such person in connection with such action, suit or proceeding, if such person acted in good faith and in a manner such person reasonably believed to be in, or not opposed to, the best interests of the Company and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, if such person had no reasonable cause to believe such person's conduct was unlawful. The termination of any action, suit or proceeding by judgment, order, settlement, conviction, or upon a plea of nolo contendere or its equivalent, shall not, of itself, create a presumption that the person did not act in good faith and in a manner which such person reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Company and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, that the person had reasonable cause to believe that such person's conduct was unlawful. (b) The Company shall indemnify any person who was or is a party, or is threatened to be made a party to, any threatened, pending or completed action or suit by or in the right of the Company to procure a judgment in its favor by reason of the fact that such person is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Company, or is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, against expenses (including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred by such person in connection with the defense or settlement of such action or suit, if such person being indemnified acted in good faith and in a manner such person reasonably believed to be in, or not opposed to, the best interests of the Company, provided that no indemnification shall be made with respect to any claim, issue, or matter as to which such person has been adjudged to have been liable to the Company, unless, and only to the extent that, the court in which such action or suit was brought shall determine upon application that, despite the adjudication of liability, but in view of all the circumstances of the case, such person is fairly and reasonably entitled to indemnity for such expenses as the court shall deem proper. (c) To the extent that a director, officer, employee or agent has been successful, on the merits or otherwise, in the defense of any action, suit or proceeding referred to in paragraph (a) or (b), or in defense of any claim, issue or matter therein, such person shall be indemnified against expenses (including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred by such person in connection therewith. (d) Any indemnification under paragraph (a) or (b) (unless ordered by a court) shall be made by the Company only as authorized in the specific case, upon a determination that indemnification of the director, officer, employee or agent is proper in the circumstances because such person has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in paragraph (a) or (b). Such determination shall be made (1) by the Board of Directors by a majority vote of a quorum consisting of directors who were not parties to such action, suit or proceeding, or (2) if such a quorum is not obtainable, or, even if obtainable, if a quorum of disinterested directors so directs, by independent legal counsel in a written opinion, or (3) by the shareholders of the Company. (e) Expenses incurred in defending a civil or criminal action, suit or proceeding may be paid by the Company in advance of the final disposition of such action, suit or proceeding, upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of the director, officer, employee or -10-
agent to repay such amount if it shall ultimately be determined that such person is not entitled to be indemnified by the Company as authorized in this Section 6. (f) The indemnification and advancement of expenses provided by or granted under the other subsections of this Section 6 shall be effective with respect to acts, errors or omissions occurring prior to, on or subsequent to the date of adoption hereof and such indemnification shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which those seeking indemnification or advancement of expenses may be entitled under any Bylaw, agreement, vote of shareholders or disinterested directors, or otherwise, both as to action by a director, officer, employee or agent in such person's official capacity and as to action in another capacity while holding such office. (g) The Company may purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person who is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Company, or who is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, against any liability asserted against such person and incurred by such person in any such capacity, or arising out of such person's status as such, whether or not the Company would have the power to indemnify such person against such liability under the provisions of this Section 6. (h) If the Company has paid indemnity or has advanced expenses to a director, officer, employee or agent, the Company shall report the indemnification or advance in writing to the shareholders with or before the notice of the next shareholders' meeting. (i) For purposes of this Section 6 references to "the Company" shall include, in addition to the surviving corporation, any merging corporation (including any corporation having merged with a merging corporation) absorbed in a merger which, if its separate existence had continued, would have had the power and authority to indemnify its directors, officers, and employees or agents, so that any person who was a director, officer, employee or agent of such merging corporation, or was serving at the request of such merging corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, shall stand in the same position under the provisions of this Section 6 with respect to the surviving corporation as such person would have with respect to such merging corporation if its separate existence had continued. (j) For purposes of this Section 6, references to "other enterprise" shall include employee benefit plans, and references to "serving at the request of the Company" shall include any service as a director, officer, employee or agent of the Company which imposes duties on, or involves services by such director, officer, employee, or agent with respect to an employee benefit plan, its participants, or beneficiaries. A person who acted in good faith and in a manner such person reasonably believed to be in the best interests of the participants and beneficiaries of an employee benefit plan shall be deemed to have acted in a manner "not opposed to the best interests of the Company" as referred to in this Section 6. -11-
(k) The indemnification and advancement of expenses provided by or granted under this Section 6 shall, unless otherwise provided when authorized or ratified, continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director, officer, employee, or agent and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors, and administrators of that person. ARTICLE VII AMENDMENT OR REPEAL OF BYLAWS These Bylaws may be added to, amended or repealed by the Board of Directors at any regular or special meeting of the Board. -12-

Exhibit 3.2 BYLAWS Of CENTRAL ILLINOIS LIGHT COMPANY As Amended Effective October 8, 2004 ARTICLE I: LOCATION OF OFFICES Section 1 - Principal Office: The principal office of the Company shall be in the City of Peoria, Illinois, at such place as the Board of Directors may designate. Section 2 - Other Offices: The Company may have and maintain such other offices as the Board of Directors may deem expedient. ARTICLE II: CORPORATE SEAL Section 1 - The Company shall have a corporate seal with the name of the Company described about a circle and the words "Incorporated 1913 Illinois" within such circle. ARTICLE III: FISCAL YEAR Section 1 - The fiscal year of the Company shall begin with the first day of January and end with the thirty-first day of December of each year. ARTICLE IV: SHAREHOLDERS' MEETINGS Section 1 - The annual meeting of the shareholders shall be held on the fourth Tuesday in April of each year (or if such a day shall be a legal holiday, then upon the next succeeding day not a legal holiday) or upon such other day determined by resolution of the Board of Directors. Each such regular annual meeting shall be held at such time and at such location, within or without the State of Illinois, as the Board of Directors shall order. At such annual meeting, a board of directors shall be elected and such other business shall be transacted as may properly come before such meeting. Section 2 - Special Meetings: Unless otherwise provided by law, special meetings of the shareholders may be called by the Board of Directors, by the Chairman of the Board, by the President, by the Secretary under the written direction of a majority of the Directors, or by shareholders holding not less than one-fifth of the total capital stock. Such meetings shall be held at the principal office of the Company, or if the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board or the President shall designate another place, then at such other place as may be so designated.
Section 3 - Notices: Written notice of either annual or special meetings shall be mailed at least ten days prior to the meeting, or in the case of a merger, consolidation, share exchange, dissolution or sale, lease or exchange of assets at least twenty days prior to the meeting, to each shareholder at his last known address as the same appears on the stock books of the Company. Such notice shall specify the time and place of holding the meeting and shall further specify the dates for closing and opening the stock transfer books of the Company, provided the Board of Directors shall have ordered them closed. Notices of special meetings shall further specify the purpose for which the meeting is called and no other business shall be transacted at such special meeting. No notice of a special meeting shall be necessary provided every shareholder shall have signed a written waiver of such notice or shall be present or represented by proxy at the meeting. No notice of the holding of an adjourned meeting shall be necessary. Section 4 - Quorum: The holders of a majority of the stock of the Company issued and outstanding shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting but a less number may convene and adjourn. Section 5 - Voting: Shareholders may vote at all meetings in person or by proxy. At all meetings, each share of stock shall be entitled to one vote on all questions and a majority of the votes cast at any such meeting shall be sufficient for the adoption or rejection of any question presented, unless otherwise provided by law. In the election of Directors, each shareholder shall have the right to cast as many votes in the aggregate as shall equal the number of shares of stock held by such shareholder, multiplied by the number of Directors to be then elected, and each shareholder may cast the whole number of votes for one candidate or distribute them among two or more candidates. Section 6 - Nominations and Proposals: (a) (1) Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors of the Company and the proposal of business to be considered by the shareholders may be made at an annual meeting of shareholders (a) pursuant to the Company's notice of meeting, (b) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (c) by any shareholder of the Company who was a shareholder of record at the time of giving of notice provided for in this By-Law, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this By-Law. (2) For nominations or other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a shareholder pursuant to clause (c) of paragraph (a) (1) of this By-Law, the shareholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Company and such other business must otherwise be a proper matter for shareholder action. To be timely, a shareholder's notice shall be delivered to the Secretary at the 2
principal executive offices of the Company not later than the close of business on the 60th day nor earlier than the close of business on the 90th day prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is more than 30 days before or more than 60 days after such anniversary date, notice by the shareholder to be timely must be so delivered not earlier than the close of business on the 90th day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 60th day prior to such annual meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made by the Company. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment of an annual meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a shareholder's notice as described above. Such shareholder's notice shall set forth (a) as to each person whom the shareholder proposes to nominate for election or re-election as a director, all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors in an election contest, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") and Rule 14a-11 thereunder (including such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected); (b) as to any other business that the shareholder proposes to bring before the meeting, a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material interest in such business of such shareholder and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made; and (c) as to the shareholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made (i) the name and address of such shareholder, as they appear on the Company's books, and of such beneficial owner and (ii) the class and number of shares of the Company which are owned beneficially and of record by such shareholder and such beneficial owner. (3) Notwithstanding anything in the second sentence of paragraph (a) (2) of this By-Law to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the Board of Directors of the Company is increased and there is no public announcement by the Company naming all of the nominees for director or specifying the size of the increased Board of Directors at least 70 days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a shareholder's notice required by this By-Law shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for any new positions created by such increase, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Company not later than the close of business on the 10th day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the Company. (b) Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of shareholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Company's notice of meeting. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at a special meeting of shareholders at which directors are to be elected pursuant to the Company's notice of meeting (1) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (2) provided that the Board of Directors has determined that directors shall be elected at such meeting, by any shareholder of the Company who is a shareholder of record at the time of giving of notice provided for in this By-Law, who shall be entitled to vote at the meeting and who 3
complies with the notice procedures set forth in this By-Law. In the event the Company calls a special meeting of shareholders for the purpose of electing one or more directors to the Board of Directors, any such shareholder may nominate a person or persons (as the case may be), for election to such position(s) as specified in the Company's notice of meeting, if the shareholder's notice required by paragraph (a) (2) of this By-Law shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Company not earlier than the close of business on the 90th day prior to such special meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 60th day prior to such special meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the Board of Directors to be elected at such meeting. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment of a special meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a shareholder's notice as described above. (c) (1) Only such persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this By-Law shall be eligible to serve as directors and only such business shall be conducted at a meeting of shareholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this By-Law. Except as otherwise provided by law, the Articles of Incorporation or these By-Laws, the chairman of the meeting shall have the power and duty to determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made or proposed, as the case may be, in accordance with the procedures set forth in this By-Law and, if any proposed nomination or business is not in compliance with this By-Law, to declare that such defective proposal or nomination shall be disregarded. (2) For purposes of this By-Law, "public announcement" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. (3) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this By-Law, a shareholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this By-Law. Nothing in this By-Law shall be deemed to affect any rights (a) of shareholders to request inclusion of proposals in the Company's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act or (b) of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect directors under specified circumstances. ARTICLE V: DIRECTORS Section 1 - Number: The Board of Directors of this Company shall consist of between three (3) and eight (8) members. 4
Section 2 - Election: Directors shall be elected annually at the annual meeting of the shareholders, provided that in the event of failure to hold such meeting or to hold said election thereat, it may be held at any special meeting of shareholders called for that purpose. Unless sooner terminated by any other provision hereof, the term of any Director shall automatically expire at the first annual meeting of the shareholders following his or her attainment of the age of 72. Notwithstanding any other provision hereof, the term of any Director who is an officer or other full-time employee of the Corporation shall automatically expire immediately upon his or her retirement or other termination of employment by the Company. Section 3 - Term of Office: The Directors shall hold office from the date of their election until the next succeeding annual meeting or until their successors are elected and shall qualify. Section 4 - Vacancies: Any vacancy occurring in the Board of Directors and any directorship to be filled by reason of an increase in the number of Directors shall be filled in the manner provided by the laws of Illinois then in effect. Section 5 - Fees: Directors shall be reimbursed for expenses, if any, incurred in attending meetings of the Board of Directors and in otherwise performing duties of such Directors. Directors' fees shall be fixed by the Board of Directors, provided that any Director who receives compensation from the Company as an officer or full-time employee shall not receive Director's fees. Section 6 - Executive or Other Committees: The Board of Directors may authorize appointment of an Executive Committee or other committees of the Board as the Board of Directors determines to be desirable, and may fix the number of members and designate the chairman of each such committee. The powers, terms of office, and method of filling vacancies shall be as defined in the resolution or resolutions of the Board of Directors relating to the authorization of such committees. Each such committee shall make a written report or recommendation following its meetings or keep minutes of all of its meetings. ARTICLE VI: DIRECTORS' MEETINGS Section 1 - Regular Meetings: Regular meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held at the principal office of the Company or at such other place or places, within or without the State of Illinois, at such time and day as the Board of Directors may designate. Section 2 - Special Meetings: Unless otherwise provided by law, special meetings of the Board of Directors may be held at any time, at the principal office of the Company or elsewhere, within or without the state. 5
The Secretary or Assistant Secretary shall call a special meeting whenever so requested by the Chairman of the Board, the President, a Vice President, or by three Directors. Section 3 - Organization Meeting: As soon as possible after their election, the Board of Directors shall meet and organize and they may also transact such other business as may be presented, provided the same shall receive the affirmative votes of a majority of the constituent membership of the Board. Section 4 - Notice: No notice shall be required for a regular meeting. No notice shall be required for an "Organization Meeting," if held on the same day as the shareholders' meeting at which the Directors were elected. No notice of the holding of an adjourned meeting shall be necessary. A reasonable notice of special meetings, in writing or otherwise, shall be given to each Director or sent to his residence or place of business. Notice of special meeting shall specify the time and place of holding the meeting and, unless otherwise stated, any and all business may be transacted at such special meeting. Notice of any meeting may be waived in writing. Section 5 - Quorum: At all meetings of the Board of Directors, a majority shall constitute a quorum, but a less number may convene and adjourn. Section 6 - Voting: All questions coming before any meeting of the Board of Directors for action shall be decided by a majority vote of the Directors present at said meeting, unless otherwise provided by law or by these Bylaws. ARTICLE VII: OFFICERS Section 1 - General: The principal officers of the Company shall be elected by the Board of Directors. They shall include a President, one or more Vice Presidents, one or more of whom may be designated as Executive or Senior Vice President, one or more Assistant Vice Presidents, a Secretary and a Treasurer, and may include a Chief Operating Officer and a Chairman of the Board. The Board of Directors may appoint or remove such other officers and agents of the Company as it may deem proper or may delegate such authority to the Chief Executive Officer. The Chief Executive Officer of the Company shall be the President or Chairman of the Board, as designated by the Board of Directors. In the event that a Chairman of the Board has not been elected, the President shall be the Chief Executive Officer. 6
Section 2 - Qualifications: The Chairman of the Board, if one is elected, and the President shall be chosen from among the Board of Directors. Section 3 - Election: The principal officers shall be elected annually at the organization meeting of the Directors, provided that any such officers not elected at such meeting may be elected at any succeeding meeting of the Directors. Section 4 - Term of Office: The principal officers shall hold office from the date of their election until the next succeeding organization meeting of Directors or until their successors are elected and shall qualify, provided that the Directors shall at all times have the power to remove any officer, when in their judgment such removal may be to the best interests of the Company. Section 5 - Vacancies: Any vacancy or vacancies among the officers, arising from any cause, shall be filled by the Directors as provided above. Section 6 - Compensation: The compensation of the principal officers shall be fixed by the Board of Directors. The compensation of other officers shall, in the absence of any action by the Board of Directors, be fixed by the Chief Executive Officer. Section 7 - Combining Offices: Except to the extent otherwise provided by law, any two or more of such offices may be held by the same person but no officer shall execute, acknowledge, or verify any instrument in more than one capacity if such instrument is required by law or by the Bylaws to be executed, acknowledged, or verified by any two or more officers. ARTICLE VIII: AGENTS Section 1 - Depositories: The funds of the Company, from any source, shall be deposited in the name of the Company with such depositories as may be designated by the Board of Directors. ARTICLE IX: POWERS AND DUTIES Section 1 - Directors: The Board of Directors shall have and exercise all power and authority in the government of the affairs of the Company except where specifically excepted by law or by these Bylaws. Section 2 - Chairman of the Board: The Chairman of the Board, if one is elected, shall preside at all meetings of the shareholders and the Board of Directors. He shall do and perform all acts and things incident to the position of Chairman of the Board and such other duties as may be assigned to him by the Board of Directors. 7
Section 3 - President: The President shall have the general control and management of the business and affairs of the Company, subject, however, to the supervision of the Board of Directors. He shall perform and do all acts and things incident to the position of President and such other duties as may be assigned to him by the Board of Directors. In the absence or disability of the Chairman of the Board, or if a Chairman of the Board has not been elected, he shall have and exercise all of the powers and duties of that office. He shall appoint such agents and employees as he may deem necessary for the proper conduct of the business of the Company and shall prescribe their duties and fix their compensation, provided that the Board of Directors shall at all times have the power to remove any agent or employee, when, in their judgment, such removal may be to the best interest of the Company. Section 4 - Vice Presidents: The Vice Presidents shall perform such of the duties of the President and such other duties on behalf of the Company as may be respectively assigned to them by the Board of Directors, or the Chief Executive Officer. In the absence or disability of the President or in the case of his death, resignation, or removal from office, the powers and duties of the President shall temporarily pass to such one of the Vice Presidents as the Board of Directors shall have designated or shall designate, and the Vice President so designated shall have and exercise all the powers and duties of the President during such absence or disability or until the vacancy in the office of President shall be filled. Section 5 - Assistant Vice Presidents: The Assistant Vice Presidents shall perform such of the duties of the Vice Presidents and such other duties on behalf of the Company as may be respectively assigned to them by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer or a Vice President who would otherwise perform such duties. Section 6 - Secretary: Subject to the supervision of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer, the Secretary shall have the custody of the corporate seal and records of the Company and shall prepare and file all reports required by law to be made to any and all public authorities and officials. He shall act as Secretary at meetings of the shareholders and Directors and shall be responsible for keeping and recording the minutes of all meetings in a suitable minute book and shall attend to publishing, giving, and serving all official notices of the Company. He shall be responsible for keeping the capital stock records. He shall perform such other duties as may be assigned to him by the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer. Section 7 - Treasurer: Subject to the supervision of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer, the Treasurer shall have the custody of all funds and securities of the Company and charge of the collection of amounts due the Company. 8
He shall disburse the funds of the Company only upon receipt of properly authorized vouchers and shall keep a record of all receipts and disbursements of funds by him. He shall have authority to give receipts for moneys paid to the Company and to endorse checks, drafts, and warrants in the name of the Company. He shall perform such other duties as may be assigned to him by the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer. Section 8 - Other Officers and Agents: The powers and duties of such other officers and agents shall be prescribed by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer. ARTICLE X: STOCK Section 1 - Stock Certificates: The shares of stock of the Company shall be represented by certificates signed by the President or a Vice President and the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary and sealed with the seal of the Company. Such seal may be a facsimile. Where such certificate is countersigned by a Transfer Agent other than the Company itself or an employee of the Company, or by a Transfer Clerk and registered by a Registrar, the signatures of the President or Vice President and the Secretary or Assistant Secretary upon such certificate may be facsimiles engraved or printed. In case any officer who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon such certificate shall have ceased to be such officer before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Company with the same effect as if such officer had not ceased to be such at the date of its issue. Section 2 - Stock Transfer Books: The stock shall be transferable on the stock transfer books of the Company in person or by proxy duly authorized, and upon surrender and cancellation of the old certificates therefor. Section 3 - Replacing Certificates: In case of the loss or destruction of any certificate of stock and the submission of proper proof thereof by the owner, a new certificate may be issued in lieu thereof under such regulations and restrictions as the Board of Directors may prescribe. ARTICLE XI: DIVIDENDS Section 1 - The Directors may declare, from the net profits or surplus of the Company, dividends upon its capital stock, payable at such times and for such amounts as they may determine in conformity with the Articles of Incorporation of the Company, as amended, and the laws of the State of Illinois. 9
ARTICLE XII: AUTHORIZED SIGNATURES Section 1 - All checks, drafts, and other negotiable instruments issued by the Company shall be made in the name of the Company and shall be signed by such officer or officers of the Company, or by such other person or persons as the Board of Directors may designate. To the extent authorized by the Board of Directors, facsimile signatures may be used. ARTICLE XIII: FIDELITY BONDS Section 1 - The officers and employees of the Company shall, in the discretion of the President, give bonds for the faithful discharge of their respective duties, in such form and for such amounts as may be directed by the President. ARTICLE XIV: AMENDMENTS Section 1 - The Bylaws of the Company may be altered, amended, or repealed by either the shareholders or the Board of Directors. ARTICLE XV: INDEMNIFICATION Section 1 - The Company shall indemnify any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (other than an action by or in the right of the Company) by reason of the fact that he or she is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Company, or who is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, against expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by such person in connection with such action, suit or proceeding, if such person acted in good faith and in a manner he or she reasonably believed to be in, or not opposed to, the best interests of the Company, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe his or her conduct was unlawful. The termination of any action, suit or proceeding by judgment, order, settlement, conviction, or upon a plea of nolo contendere or its equivalent, shall not, of itself, create a presumption that the person did not act in good faith and in a manner which he or she reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Company or, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had reasonable cause to believe that his or her conduct was unlawful. Section 2 - The Company shall indemnify any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action or suit by or 10
in the right of the Company to procure a judgment in its favor by reason of the fact that such person is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Company, or is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, against expenses (including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred by such person in connection with the defense or settlement of such action or suit, if such person acted in good faith and in a manner he or she reasonably believed to be in, or not opposed to, the best interests of the Company, provided that no indemnification shall be made in respect of any claim, issue or matter as to which such person shall have been adjudged to be liable for negligence or misconduct in the performance of his or her duty to the Company, unless, and only to the extent that the court in which such action or suit was brought shall determine upon application that, despite the adjudication of liability, but in view of all circumstances of the case, such person is fairly and reasonably entitled to indemnity for such expenses as the court shall deem proper. Section 3 - To the extent that a director, officer, employee or agent of the Company has been successful, on the merits or otherwise, in the defense of any action, suit or proceeding referred to in Sections l and 2 of this Article, or in defense of any claim, issue or matter therein, such person shall be indemnified against expenses (including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred by such person in connection therewith. Section 4 - Any indemnification under Sections l and 2 of this Article (unless ordered by a court) shall be made by the Company only as authorized in the specific case, upon a determination that indemnification of the director, officer, employee or agent is proper in the circumstances because he or she has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in Section l or 2 of this Article. Such determination shall be made (a) by the Board of Directors by a majority vote of a quorum consisting of directors who were not parties to such action, suit or proceeding, or (b) if such a quorum is not obtainable, or even if obtainable, if a quorum of disinterested directors so directs, by independent legal counsel in a written opinion, or (c) by the shareholders. Section 5 - Expenses incurred in defending a civil or criminal action, suit or proceeding may be paid by the Company in advance of the final disposition of such action, suit or proceeding, as authorized by the Board of Directors in the specific case, upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of the director, officer, employee or agent to repay such amount, unless it shall ultimately be determined that he or she is entitled to be indemnified by the Company as authorized in this Article. Section 6 - The indemnification provided by this Article shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which those seeking indemnification may be entitled under any by-law, agreement, vote of shareholders or disinterested directors, or otherwise, both as to action in his or her official capacity and as to action in another capacity while holding such office, and shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director, officer, employee or agent, and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors and administrators of such a person. 11
Section 7 - The Company shall have power to purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person who is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Company, or is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, against any liability asserted against such person and incurred by such person in any such capacity, or arising out of his or her status as such, whether or not the Company would have the power to indemnify such person against such liability under the provisions of this Article. Section 8 - If the Company has paid indemnity or has advanced expenses to a director, officer, employee or agent, the Company shall report the indemnification or advance in writing to the shareholders with or before the notice of the next shareholders' meeting. Section 9 - For purposes of this Article, references to "the Company" shall include, in addition to the surviving Company, any merging Company (including any Company having merged with a merging Company) absorbed in a merger which, if its separate existence had continued, would have had the power and authority to indemnify its directors, officers and employees or agents, so that any person who was a director, officer, employee or agent of such merging Company, or was serving at the request of such merging Company as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, shall stand in the same position under the provisions of this Article with respect to the surviving Company as such person would have with respect to such merging Company if its separate existence had continued. Section 10 - For purposes of this Article, references to "other enterprises" shall include employee benefit plans; references to "fines" shall include any excise taxes assessed on a person with respect to an employee benefit plan; and references to "serving at the request of the Company" shall include any service as a director, officer, employee or agent of the Company which imposes duties on, or involves services by such director, officer, employee, or agent with respect to an employee benefit plan, its participants, or beneficiaries. A person who acted in good faith and in a manner he or she reasonably believed to be in the best interest of the participants and beneficiaries of an employee benefit plan shall be deemed to have acted in a manner "not opposed to the best interests of the Company" as referred to in this Article. 12

Exhibit 3.3 BYLAWS ILLINOIS POWER COMPANY (An Illinois Corporation) As Amended October 8, 2004 ARTICLE I Shareholders Section 1. The annual meeting of the shareholders shall be held on the fourth Tuesday in April of each year (or if such a day shall be a legal holiday, then upon the next succeeding day not a legal holiday) or upon such other day determined by resolution of the Board of Directors. Each such regular annual meeting shall be held at such time and at such location, within or without the State of Illinois, as the Board of Directors shall order. At such annual meeting, a board of directors shall be elected and such other business shall be transacted as may properly come before such meeting. Section 2. Special meetings of the shareholders may be held upon call of the Chairman, the President, or of the Board of Directors or of shareholders holding not less than one-fifth of the shares of the capital stock of the Corporation issued and outstanding, at such time and at such place within the State of Illinois as may be stated in the call and notice. In the event of war, rebellion or other catastrophe, if the surviving members of the Board of Directors shall be reduced to less than a majority of the number fixed by these Bylaws, then any surviving member of the Board of Directors may so call a special meeting of shareholders, at such time and at such place as may be stated in the call and notice. Section 3. Notice stating the place, date and hour of every meeting of the shareholders, and in the case of a special meeting further stating the purpose for which such meeting is call, shall be mailed at least ten days before the meeting to each shareholder of record who shall be entitled to vote thereat, at the last known post office address of each such shareholder as it appears upon the books of the Corporation. Such further notice shall be given by mail, publication or otherwise, as may be required by law. Any meeting may be held without notice if all of the shareholders entitled to vote are present or represented at the meeting, or all of the shareholders entitled to notice of the meeting sign a waiver thereof in writing. Section 4. The holders of record of a majority of the shares of the capital stock of the Corporation issued and outstanding, entitled to vote thereat, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at all meetings of the shareholders, and the vote of a majority of such quorum shall be necessary for the transaction of any business, unless otherwise provided by law, by the Restated
-2- Articles of Incorporation or by the Bylaws. If at any meeting there shall be no quorum, the holders of record, entitled to vote, of a majority of such shares of stock so present or represented may adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until a quorum shall have been obtained, when any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as first convened had there been a quorum. Section 5. Meeting of the shareholders shall be presided over by the Chairman, or, if he is not present, the President, or a Vice President, in that order, or, if no such officer is present, by a chairman to be chosen at the meeting. The Secretary of the Corporation, or, if he is not present, an Assistant Secretary of the Corporation, or, if neither the Secretary nor an Assistant Secretary is present, a secretary to be chosen at the meeting, shall act as secretary of the meeting. Section 6. At all meetings of the shareholders every holder of record of the shares of the capital stock of the Corporation, entitled to vote thereat, may vote thereat either in person or by proxy, provided that no shareholder may appoint more than three persons as proxies at any time, and that no proxy shall be valid after eleven months from the date of its execution, except where the stock is pledged as security for a debt to the person holding the Proxy. Section 7. At all elections of Directors the voting shall be by written ballot and shareholders may cumulate their votes. Section 8. The stock transfer books of the Corporation may, if so determined by the Board of Directors, be closed before any meeting of the shareholders, and for any other purpose, including the payment of any dividend, for such length of time as the Board may from time to time determine. ARTICLE II Directors The Board of Directors of the Corporation shall consist of not less than three (3) or more than eight (8) Directors. The number of Directors may be fixed or changed from time to time within the aforesaid range, by resolution of the Board of Directors or shareholders. The Directors shall be elected at the regular annual meeting of the shareholders; but if the election of Directors is not held on the day of the annual meeting, the Directors shall cause the election to be held as soon thereafter as conveniently may be. Unless sooner terminated by any other provision hereof, the term of any Director shall automatically expire at the first annual meeting of the shareholders following his or her attainment of the age of 72. Notwithstanding any other provision hereof, the term of any Director who is an officer or other full-time employee of the Corporation shall automatically expire immediately upon his or her retirement or other termination of employment by the Corporation. A majority of the
-3- members of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, but if at any meeting of the Board there shall be less than a quorum present, a majority of the Directors present may adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until a quorum shall have been obtained, when any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as first convened had there been a quorum. The acts of a majority of the Directors present at any meeting at which there is a quorum shall, except as otherwise provided by law, by the Restated Articles of Incorporation or by the Bylaws, be the acts of the Board. Section 2. Vacancies in the Board of Directors, caused by death, resignation or otherwise, may be filled at any meeting of the Board of Directors and the directors so elected shall hold office until the next annual meeting of the shareholders and until their successors are elected and qualified. Section 3. Meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held at such place within or without the State of Illinois as may from time to time be fixed by resolution of the Board or as may be specified in the call of any meeting. Regular meetings of the Board shall be held at such time as may from time to time be fixed by resolution of the Board, and notice of such meetings need not be given. Special meetings of the Board may be held at any time upon call of the President or a Vice President, by oral, telegraphic or written notice, duly served on or sent or mailed to each director not less than two days before any such meeting. A meeting of the Board may be held without notice immediately after the annual meeting of the shareholders at the same place at which such meeting is held. Any meeting may be held without notice if all of the Directors are present at the meeting, or if all of the Directors sign a waiver thereof in writing. Section 4. Meetings of the Board of Directors shall be presided over by the Chairman or, if he is not present, the President, or a Vice President, in that order, or, if no such officer is present, by a chairman to be chosen at the meeting. The Secretary of the Corporation or, if he is not present, an Assistant Secretary of the Corporation or, if neither the Secretary nor an Assistant Secretary is present, a secretary to be chosen at the meeting shall act as secretary of the meeting. Section 5. The Board of Directors, by the affirmative vote of a majority of the whole Board may appoint an Executive Committee and a Finance Committee, in each case to include three or more Directors, as the Board may from time to time determine. Each such Committee shall have and may exercise such powers as may from time to time be specified in the resolution or resolutions of the Board of Directors creating such Committee, respectively. The Board shall have the power at any time to fill vacancies in, to change the membership of or to dissolve, either such Committee. Each Committee may make rules for the conduct of its business, and may appoint such committees and assistants as it shall from time to time deem necessary. A majority of the members of each Committee shall constitute a quorum and the action of a majority thereof shall be the action of such Committee. All
-4- actions taken by such Committee shall be reported to the Board at its meeting next succeeding such action. Section 6. The Board of Directors may also appoint one or more other committees to consist of such number of the Directors and to have such powers as the Board may from time to time determine. The Board shall have the power at any time to fill vacancies in, to change the membership of, or to dissolve, any such committee. A majority of the members of any such committee shall constitute a quorum and may determine its action and fix the time and place of its meetings unless the Board shall otherwise provide. All action taken by any such committee shall be reported to the Board at its meeting next succeeding such action. Section 7. Each member of the Board of Directors who is not a salaried officer or employee of the Corporation shall be compensated for his services as director of the Corporation. The Board of Directors shall fix the amount of such compensation. Section 8. (a) (1) Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors of the Corporation and the proposal of business to be considered by the shareholders may be made at an annual meeting of shareholders (a) pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting, (b) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (c) by any shareholder of the Corporation who was a shareholder of record at the time of giving of notice provided for in this Bylaw, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Bylaw. (2) For nominations or other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a shareholder pursuant to clause (c) of paragraph (a) (1) of this Bylaw, the shareholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation and such other business must otherwise be a proper matter for shareholder action. To be timely, a shareholder's notice shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the 60th day nor earlier than the close of business on the 90th day prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is more than 30 days before or more than 60 days after such anniversary date, notice by the shareholder to be timely must be so delivered not earlier than the close of business on the 90th day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 60th day prior to such annual meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made by the Corporation. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment of an annual meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a shareholder's notice as described above. Such shareholder's notice shall set forth (a) as to each person whom the shareholder proposes to nominate for election or re-election as a Director, all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of Directors in an election contest, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
-5- amended (the "Exchange Act") and Rule 14a-11 thereunder (including such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a Director if elected); (b) as to any other business that the shareholder proposes to bring before the meeting, a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material interest in such business of such shareholder and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made; and (c) as to the shareholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made (i) the name and address of such shareholder, as they appear on the Corporation's books, and of such beneficial owner and (ii) the class and number of shares of the Corporation which are owned beneficially and of record by such shareholder and such beneficial owner. (3) Notwithstanding anything in the second sentence of paragraph (a) (2) of this Bylaw to the contrary, in the event that the number of Directors to be elected to the Board of Directors of the Corporation is increased and there is no public announcement by the Corporation naming all of the nominees for Director or specifying the size of the increased Board of Directors at least 70 days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a shareholder's notice required by this Bylaw shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for any new positions created by such increase, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the 10th day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the Corporation. (b) Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of shareholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at a special meeting of shareholders at which Directors are to be elected pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting (1) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (2) provided that the Board of Directors has determined that Directors shall be elected at such meeting, by any shareholder of the Corporation who is a shareholder of record at the time of giving of notice provided for in this Bylaw, who shall be entitled to vote at the meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Bylaw. In the event the Corporation calls a special meeting of shareholders for the purpose of electing one or more Directors to the Board of Directors, any such shareholder may nominate a person or persons (as the case may be), for election to such position(s) as specified in the Corporation's notice of meeting, if the shareholder's notice required by paragraph (a) (2) of this Bylaw shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not earlier than the close of business on the 90th day prior to such special meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 60th day prior to such special meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the Board of Directors to be elected at such meeting. In no event shall
-6- the public announcement of an adjournment of a special meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a shareholder's notice as described above. (c) (1) Only such persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Bylaw shall be eligible to serve as Directors and only such business shall be conducted at a meeting of shareholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this By-Law. Except as otherwise provided by law, the Articles of Incorporation or these Bylaws, the chairman of the meeting shall have the power and duty to determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made or proposed, as the case may be, in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Bylaw and, if any proposed nomination or business is not in compliance with this Bylaw, to declare that such defective proposal or nomination shall be disregarded. (2) For purposes of this Bylaw, "public announcement" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. (3) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Bylaw, a shareholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this Bylaw. Nothing in this Bylaw shall be deemed to affect any rights (a) of shareholders to request inclusion of proposals in the Corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act or (b) of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect Directors under specified circumstances. ARTICLE III Officers Section 1. As soon as may be after the election held in each year, the Board of Directors shall elect a President (who shall be a director), one or more Vice Presidents, one or more of whom may be designated as Executive Vice President or Senior Vice President, and a Secretary and a Treasurer and a Controller, and may elect a Chairman (who shall be a director) and a Chief Operating Officer. The Board of Directors may appoint or remove such other officers and agents of the Company as it may deem proper or may delegate such authority to the Chief Executive Officer. The Chief Executive Officer of the Company shall be the President or Chairman of the Board, as designated by the Board of Directors. In the event that a Chairman of the Board has not been elected, the President shall be the Chief Executive Officer. The same person may be elected or appointed to more than one office.
-7- Section 2. The term of office of all officers shall be one year or until their respective successors are elected, but any officer or agent may be removed, with or without cause, at any time by the affirmative vote of a majority of the members of the Board then in office. Section 3. The officers of the Corporation shall each have such powers and duties as may be prescribed from time to time by the Board of Directors or, in the absence of such prescription, the officers of the Corporation shall each have such powers and duties as generally pertain to their respective offices. The Treasurer, the Assistant Treasurers and any other officers or employees of the Corporation may be required to give bond for the faithful discharge of their duties, in such sum and of such character as the Board may from time to time prescribe. Section 4. The salaries of all officers and agents of the Corporation shall be fixed by the Board of Directors, or pursuant to such authority as the Board may from time to time prescribe. ARTICLE IV Certificates of Stock Section 1. The interest of each shareholder in the Corporation shall be evidenced by a certificate or certificates for shares of stock of the Corporation, in such form as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe. The certificates for shares of stock of the Corporation shall be signed by the President or a Vice President and the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, sealed with the seal of the Corporation (which seal may be a facsimile), and shall be countersigned and registered in such manner, if any, as the Board may by resolution prescribe. Section 2. The shares of stock of the Corporation shall be transferable on the books of the Corporation by the holders thereof in person or by duly authorized attorney, upon surrender for cancellation of certificates for a like number of shares of the same class of stock, with duly executed assignment and power of transfer endorsed thereon or attached thereto and such proof of the authenticity of the signatures as the Corporation or its agents may reasonably require. Section 3. No certificate for shares of stock of the Corporation shall be issued in place of any certificate alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed, except upon production of such evidence of the loss, theft, or destruction, and upon indemnification of the Corporation and its agents to such extent and in such manner as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe.
-8- ARTICLE V Checks, Notes, etc. All checks and drafts on the Corporation's bank accounts and all bills of exchange and promissory notes, and all acceptances, obligations and other instruments for the payment of money, shall be signed by such officer or officers or agent or agents as shall be thereunto authorized from time to time by the Board of Directors; provided that checks drawn on the Corporation's bank accounts may bear facsimile signature or signatures, affixed thereto by a mechanical device, of such officer or officers and/or agent or agents as the Board of Directors shall authorize. ARTICLE VI Fiscal Year The fiscal year of the Corporation shall begin on the first day of January in each year and shall end on the thirty-first day of December following. ARTICLE VII Corporate Seal The corporate seal shall have inscribed thereon the name of the Corporation and the works "Corporate Seal 1923 Illinois." ARTICLE VIII Indemnification Section 1. Indemnification of Directors, Officers and Employees. The Corporation shall, to the fullest extent to which it is empowered to do so by the Business Corporation Act of 1983 or any other applicable laws, as may from time to time be in effect, indemnify any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, by reason of the fact that he is or was a director, officer, employee, trustee, or fiduciary of the Corporation, or of a Corporation-sponsored or Corporation-administered trust or benefit plan, or is or was serving at the request of the Board of Directors of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee, trustee, or fiduciary of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, benefit plan, or other enterprise, against all expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by him in connection with such action, suit or proceedings.
-9- Section 2. Contract with the Corporation. The provisions of this Article VIII shall be deemed to be a contract between the Corporation and each director or officer who serves in any such capacity at any time while this Article is in effect, and any repeal or modification of this Article shall not affect any rights or obligations hereunder with respect to any state of facts then or theretofore existing or any action, suit or proceeding theretofore or thereafter brought or threatened based in whole or in part upon any such state of facts. Section 3. Other Rights of Indemnification. The indemnification provided or permitted by this Article shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which those indemnified may be entitled by law or otherwise, and shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director, officer, employee or agent and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors and administrators of such person. Section 4. Retroactivity. The provisions of this Article are to be given retroactive effect. ARTICLE IX Amendments These Bylaws, or any part thereof, may be altered, amended or repealed at any meeting of the Board of Directors, provided that notice of such meeting shall set forth the substance of such proposed change.


