FILE:AEE/AEE-8K-20041001092543.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Triggering Events That Accelerate or Increase a Direct Financial Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement	Changes in Control of Registrant	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Triggering Events That Accelerate or Increase a Direct Financial Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement
ITEM: Changes in Control of Registrant
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 ------------------------------------- FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of report (Date of earliest event reported): September 30, 2004 Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions: [ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c)) SECTION 1 - REGISTRANT'S BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS ITEM 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement. On September 30, 2004, the following described material definitive agreement was entered into in conjunction with the completion of the Acquisition (as defined in Item 5.01 below): o A power purchase agreement between Illinois Power Company ("IPC") and Dynegy Power Marketing, Inc., a subsidiary of Dynegy Inc. ("Dynegy"), providing for the annual purchase by IPC in 2005 and 2006 of 2,800 megawatts of firm capacity. This agreement is expected to supply approximately 70 percent of IPC's electric customer requirements during those two years. The text of the power purchase agreement dated as of September 30, 2004 is included as Exhibit 10.1. SECTION 2 - FINANCIAL INFORMATION ITEM 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant. On September 30, 2004, in conjunction with the completion of the Acquisition (as defined in Item 5.01 below), the Ameren Corporation ("Ameren") System Utility Money Pool Agreement was amended to add IPC as a party. The Utility Money Pool Agreement provides for short-term borrowing arrangements with and among Ameren's utility subsidiaries, Union Electric Company, Central Illinois Public Service Company, Central Illinois Light Company, AmerenEnergy Resources Generating Company (as a lender only) and IPC, Ameren's service company subsidiary, Ameren Services Company, and Ameren (as a lender only). The text of the Third Amended Ameren Corporation System Utility Money Pool Agreement dated as of September 30, 2004 is included as Exhibit 10.2. -2-
Also on September 30, 2004, a unilateral borrowing agreement was entered into between Ameren, IPC and Ameren Services Company which enables IPC to make short-term borrowings directly from Ameren up to an aggregate amount outstanding at any time of $500 million. Ameren Services Company is responsible for operation and administration of the agreement. The text of the unilateral borrowing agreement dated as of September 30, 2004 is included as Exhibit 10.3. ITEM 2.04 Triggering Events That Accelerate or Increase a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement. The completion of the Acquisition (as defined in Item 5.01 below) constitutes a Change of Control of IPC, as defined in the indenture (the "Indenture") governing the 11 1/2% Mortgage Bonds due 2010 of IPC (the "11 1/2% Bonds"). In accordance with the Indenture, IPC is required to commence, within 30 days following the Change of Control, a tender offer to purchase all outstanding 11 1/2% Bonds at a price of 101% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of purchase. IPC intends to commence such an offer on or before October 30, 2004. As a result of certain actions taken by IPC immediately prior to the completion of the Acquisition (as defined in Item 5.01 below), IPC has notified the trustee under the Indenture that a Triggering Event (as defined in the Indenture) has occurred with respect to the 11 1/2% Bonds. A Triggering Event enables the holders of at least 25% of the outstanding 11 1/2% Bonds to deliver a notice to IPC requiring IPC to redeem the 11 1/2% Bonds at a redemption price specified in the Indenture. SECTION 5 - CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT ITEM 5.01 Changes in Control of Registrant. On September 30, 2004, Ameren completed its acquisition of IPC and a 20% interest in Electric Energy, Inc. ("EEI") from Dynegy and certain of its affiliates (the "Acquisition"). As a result of the Acquisition, Ameren obtained all of the outstanding common stock, without par value, and approximately 73% of the total outstanding preferred stock, $50 par value, of IPC. The total consideration for Ameren's acquisition of IPC and the 20% interest in EEI from Dynegy and certain of its affiliates was $2.3 billion consisting of assumption of existing IPC outstanding indebtedness in the amount of $1.823 billion, $100 million in cash placed into an escrow account as described in Item 8.01 below, with the balance paid with cash on hand financed through prior issuances of new shares of Ameren common stock. In connection with the Acquisition, and as more fully described in Section 5.02 below, (i) effective as of immediately prior to the closing, the size of the Board of Directors of IPC was increased from 3 to 6 and Warner L. Baxter, Gary L. Rainwater and Steven R. Sullivan were elected to fill the 3 newly created vacancies, (ii) effective as of the closing, R. Blake Young, Carol F. Graebner and Bruce A. Williamson resigned as members of the Board of Directors of IPC and (iii) effective as of immediately following the closing, Daniel F. Cole, Thomas R. Voss and David A. Whiteley were elected to fill the 3 newly created vacancies. ITEM 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers. On September 30, 2004, in connection with the Acquisition and in conjunction with an amendment to the Bylaws of IPC as more fully described in Item 5.03 below, effective as of immediately prior to the closing, the size of the Board of Directors of IPC was increased from 3 to 6 and the following persons, each of whom are employed by Ameren or its affiliates, were selected to fill the 3 vacancies: Warner L. Baxter, Gary L. Rainwater and Steven R. Sullivan. Additionally, on the same date and effective as of the closing, the following members of the Board of Directors of IPC resigned: R. Blake Young, Carol F. Graebner and Bruce A. Willamson. Following the resignations and effective immediately following the closing, on the same date, the following persons, each of whom are employed by Ameren or its affiliates, were selected to fill the 3 vacancies: Daniel F. Cole, Thomas R. Voss and David A. Whiteley. -3-
In addition, in furtherance of the Acquisition, the following officers of IPC resigned as of the closing: Name Title R. Blake Young President (principal executive officer and principal operating officer) Nicholas J. Caruso Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Peggy E. Carter Managing Director and Controller (principal accounting officer) Mr. Shawn E. Schukar, a Senior Vice President at IPC prior to the Acquisition, was appointed Vice President and will be the senior operating officer of IPC following the Acquisition. The following officers, all employees of Ameren or its subsidiaries, were appointed as officers of IPC as of immediately following the Acquisition to serve indefinitely: ITEM 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year. On September 30, 2004, effective as of immediately prior to the Acquisition, the Bylaws of IPC were amended by action by unanimous written consent of the Board of Directors of IPC to provide that the size of the Board of Directors will be not less than 3 and not more than 8 directors, with the number fixed from time to time within such range by the Board of Directors or the shareholders of IPC. Also on September 30, 2004, effective as of immediately following the Acquisition, the following changes were made to the Bylaws of IPC by action by unanimous consent of the Board of Directors of IPC: o The annual meeting of shareholders will be held on the fourth Tuesday in April of each year or any other day as determined by resolution of the Board of Directors. Previously, the annual meeting was to be held on such date as fixed by resolution of the Board of Directors. o A director's term automatically expires at the first annual meeting of shareholders following such director's 72nd birthday and the terms of any directors who are officers or full time employees of IPC will automatically terminate immediately upon their retirement or termination of employment by IPC. o The mechanism for nominating persons for election to the Board of Directors or proposing business to be considered by shareholders at an annual meeting or special meeting was modified to permit any shareholder who gives notice as provided in the Bylaws of IP to nominate persons for election or propose business at such meetings. For additional information, reference is made to the Bylaws of IPC, as amended September 30, 2004, which is included as Exhibit 3.1 hereto and incorporated by reference herein. SECTION 8 - OTHER EVENTS Item 8.01 Other Events. On September 30, 2004, Ameren completed its acquisition of IPC and a 20 percent interest in EEI from Dynegy and certain of its affiliates for total consideration of $2.3 billion, consisting of assumption of existing outstanding indebtedness of IPC in the amount of $1.823 billion, $100 million in cash placed into an escrow account as described below, with the balance paid in cash on hand, financed through prior issuances of new shares of Ameren common stock. -5-
Also on September 30, 2004, Illinova Corporation, a subsidiary of Dynegy and the parent company and seller of IPC, Ameren and JPMorgan Chase Bank, as escrow agent, entered into an escrow agreement providing for Ameren's placement of $100 million of the cash portion of the $2.3 billion purchase price in a six-year escrow pending resolution of certain contingent environmental obligations of IPC and other Dynegy affiliates for which Ameren has been provided indemnification by Dynegy. On October 1, 2004, IPC filed a notice with the Secretary of State of Illinois to transact business under the assumed corporate name of AmerenIP. For additional information, reference is made to the press release dated October 1, 2004, which is included as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein. SECTION 9 - FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits. (c) Exhibits This combined Form 8-K is being filed separately by Ameren Corporation, Union Electric Company, Central Illinois Public Service Company, Ameren Energy Generating Company, CILCORP Inc., Central Illinois Light Company and Illinois Power Company (each a "registrant"). Information contained herein relating to any individual registrant has been filed by such registrant on its own behalf. No registrant makes any representation as to information relating to any other registrant. -6-
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. The signature for each undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to such company or its subsidiaries. AMEREN CORPORATION (Registrant) /s/ Martin J. Lyons --------------------------------------- Martin J. Lyons Vice President and Controller (Principal Accounting Officer) UNION ELECTRIC COMPANY (Registrant) /s/ Martin J. Lyons --------------------------------------- Martin J. Lyons Vice President and Controller (Principal Accounting Officer) CENTRAL ILLINOIS PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY (Registrant) /s/ Martin J. Lyons --------------------------------------- Martin J. Lyons Vice President and Controller (Principal Accounting Officer) AMEREN ENERGY GENERATING COMPANY (Registrant) /s/ Martin J. Lyons --------------------------------------- Martin J. Lyons Vice President and Controller (Principal Accounting Officer) CILCORP Inc. (Registrant) /s/ Martin J. Lyons --------------------------------------- Martin J. Lyons Vice President and Controller (Principal Accounting Officer) -7-
CENTRAL ILLINOIS LIGHT COMPANY (Registrant) /s/ Martin J. Lyons --------------------------------------- Martin J. Lyons Vice President and Controller (Principal Accounting Officer) ILLINOIS POWER COMPANY (Registrant) /s/ Martin J. Lyons --------------------------------------- Martin J. Lyons Vice President and Controller (Principal Accounting Officer) Date: October 1, 2004 -8-

EXHIBIT 3.1 BYLAWS ILLINOIS POWER COMPANY (An Illinois Corporation) As Amended September 30, 2004 ARTICLE I Shareholders Section 1. The annual meeting of the shareholders shall be held on the fourth Tuesday in April of each year (or if such a day shall be a legal holiday, then upon the next succeeding day not a legal holiday) or upon such other day determined by resolution of the Board of Directors. Each such regular annual meeting shall be held at such time and at such location, within or without the State of Illinois, as the Board of Directors shall order. At such annual meeting, a board of directors shall be elected and such other business shall be transacted as may properly come before such meeting. Section 2. Special meetings of the shareholders may be held upon call of the Chairman, the President, or of the Board of Directors or of shareholders holding not less than one-fifth of the shares of the capital stock of the Corporation issued and outstanding, at such time and at such place within the State of Illinois as may be stated in the call and notice. In the event of war, rebellion or other catastrophe, if the surviving members of the Board of Directors shall be reduced to less than a majority of the number fixed by these Bylaws, then any surviving member of the Board of Directors may so call a special meeting of shareholders, at such time and at such place as may be stated in the call and notice. Section 3. Notice stating the place, date and hour of every meeting of the shareholders, and in the case of a special meeting further stating the purpose for which such meeting is call, shall be mailed at least ten days before the meeting to each stockholder of record who shall be entitled to vote thereat, at the last known post office address of each such stockholder as it appears upon the books of the Corporation. Such further notice shall be given by mail, publication or otherwise, as may be required by law. Any meeting may be held without notice if all of the shareholders entitled to vote are present or represented at the meeting, or all of the shareholders entitled to notice of the meeting sign a waiver thereof in writing. Section 4. The holders of record of a majority of the shares of the capital stock of the Corporation issued and outstanding, entitled to vote thereat, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at all meetings of the
-2- shareholders, and the vote of a majority of such quorum shall be necessary for the transaction of any business, unless otherwise provided by law, by the Restated Articles of Incorporation or by the Bylaws. If at any meeting there shall be no quorum, the holders of record, entitled to vote, of a majority of such shares of stock so present or represented may adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until a quorum shall have been obtained, when any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as first convened had there been a quorum. Section 5. Meeting of the shareholders shall be presided over by the Chairman, or, if he is not present, the President, or a Vice President, in that order, or, if no such officer is present, by a chairman to be chosen at the meeting. The Secretary of the Corporation, or, if he is not present, an Assistant Secretary of the Corporation, or, if neither the Secretary nor an Assistant Secretary is present, a secretary to be chosen at the meeting, shall act as secretary of the meeting. Section 6. At all meetings of the shareholders every holder of record of the shares of the capital stock of the Corporation, entitled to vote thereat, may vote thereat either in person or by proxy, provided that no stockholder may appoint more than three persons as proxies at any time, and that no proxy shall be valid after eleven months from the date of its execution, except where the stock is pledged as security for a debt to the person holding the Proxy. Section 7. At all elections of Directors the voting shall be by written ballot and shareholders may cumulate their votes. Section 8. The stock transfer books of the Corporation may, if so determined by the Board of Directors, be closed before any meeting of the shareholders, and for any other purpose, including the payment of any dividend, for such length of time as the Board may from time to time determine. ARTICLE II Directors The Board of Directors of the Corporation shall consist of not less than three (3) nor more than eight (8) Directors. The number of Directors may be fixed or changed from time to time within the aforesaid range, by resolution of the Board of Directors or shareholders. The Directors shall be elected at the regular annual meeting of the shareholders; but if the election of Directors is not held on the day of the annual meeting, the Directors shall cause the election to be held as soon thereafter as conveniently may be. Unless sooner terminated by any other provision hereof, the term of any Director shall automatically expire at the first annual meeting of the shareholders following his or her attainment of the age of 72. Notwithstanding any other provision hereof, the term of any Director who is an officer or other full-time
-3- employee of the Corporation shall automatically expire immediately upon his or her retirement or other termination of employment by the Corporation. A majority of the members of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, but if at any meeting of the Board there shall be less than a quorum present, a majority of the Directors present may adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until a quorum shall have been obtained, when any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as first convened had there been a quorum. The acts of a majority of the Directors present at any meeting at which there is a quorum shall, except as otherwise provided by law, by the Restated Articles of Incorporation or by the Bylaws, be the acts of the Board. Section 2. Vacancies in the Board of Directors, caused by death, resignation or otherwise, may be filled at any meeting of the Board of Directors and the directors so elected shall hold office until the next annual meeting of the shareholders and until their successors are elected and qualified. Section 3. Meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held at such place within or without the State of Illinois as may from time to time be fixed by resolution of the Board or as may be specified in the call of any meeting. Regular meetings of the Board shall be held at such time as may from time to time be fixed by resolution of the Board, and notice of such meetings need not be given. Special meetings of the Board may be held at any time upon call of the President or a Vice President, by oral, telegraphic or written notice, duly served on or sent or mailed to each director not less than two days before any such meeting. A meeting of the Board may be held without notice immediately after the annual meeting of the shareholders at the same place at which such meeting is held. Any meeting may be held without notice if all of the Directors are present at the meeting, or if all of the Directors sign a waiver thereof in writing. Section 4. Meetings of the Board of Directors shall be presided over by the Chairman or, if he is not present, the President, or a Vice President, in that order, or, if no such officer is present, by a chairman to be chosen at the meeting. The Secretary of the Corporation or, if he is not present, an Assistant Secretary of the Corporation or, if neither the Secretary nor an Assistant Secretary is present, a secretary to be chosen at the meeting shall act as secretary of the meeting. Section 5. The Board of Directors, by the affirmative vote of a majority of the whole Board may appoint an Executive Committee and a Finance Committee, in each case to include three or more Directors, as the Board may from time to time determine. Each such Committee shall have and may exercise such powers as may from time to time be specified in the resolution or resolutions of the Board of Directors creating such Committee, respectively. The Board shall have the power at any time to fill vacancies in, to change the membership of or to dissolve, either such Committee. Each Committee may make rules for the conduct of its business, and may appoint such committees and assistants as it shall from time to time deem
-4- necessary. A majority of the members of each Committee shall constitute a quorum and the action of a majority thereof shall be the action of such Committee. All actions taken by such Committee shall be reported to the Board at its meeting next succeeding such action. Section 6. The Board of Directors may also appoint one or more other committees to consist of such number of the Directors and to have such powers as the Board may from time to time determine. The Board shall have the power at any time to fill vacancies in, to change the membership of, or to dissolve, any such committee. A majority of the members of any such committee shall constitute a quorum and may determine its action and fix the time and place of its meetings unless the Board shall otherwise provide. All action taken by any such committee shall be reported to the Board at its meeting next succeeding such action. Section 7. Each member of the Board of Directors who is not a salaried officer or employee of the Corporation shall be compensated for his services as director of the Corporation. The Board of Directors shall fix the amount of such compensation. Section 8. (a) (1) Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors of the Corporation and the proposal of business to be considered by the shareholders may be made at an annual meeting of shareholders (a) pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting, (b) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (c) by any shareholder of the Corporation who was a shareholder of record at the time of giving of notice provided for in this Bylaw, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Bylaw. (2) For nominations or other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a shareholder pursuant to clause (c) of paragraph (a) (1) of this Bylaw, the shareholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation and such other business must otherwise be a proper matter for shareholder action. To be timely, a shareholder's notice shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the 60th day nor earlier than the close of business on the 90th day prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is more than 30 days before or more than 60 days after such anniversary date, notice by the shareholder to be timely must be so delivered not earlier than the close of business on the 90th day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 60th day prior to such annual meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made by the Corporation. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment of an annual meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a shareholder's notice as described above. Such shareholder's notice shall set forth (a) as to each person whom the shareholder proposes to nominate for election or re-election as a Director, all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of
-5- proxies for election of Directors in an election contest, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") and Rule 14a-11 thereunder (including such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a Director if elected); (b) as to any other business that the shareholder proposes to bring before the meeting, a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material interest in such business of such shareholder and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made; and (c) as to the shareholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made (i) the name and address of such shareholder, as they appear on the Corporation's books, and of such beneficial owner and (ii) the class and number of shares of the Corporation which are owned beneficially and of record by such shareholder and such beneficial owner. (3) Notwithstanding anything in the second sentence of paragraph (a) (2) of this Bylaw to the contrary, in the event that the number of Directors to be elected to the Board of Directors of the Corporation is increased and there is no public announcement by the Corporation naming all of the nominees for Director or specifying the size of the increased Board of Directors at least 70 days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a shareholder's notice required by this Bylaw shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for any new positions created by such increase, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the 10th day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the Corporation. (b) Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of shareholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at a special meeting of shareholders at which Directors are to be elected pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting (1) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (2) provided that the Board of Directors has determined that Directors shall be elected at such meeting, by any shareholder of the Corporation who is a shareholder of record at the time of giving of notice provided for in this Bylaw, who shall be entitled to vote at the meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Bylaw. In the event the Corporation calls a special meeting of shareholders for the purpose of electing one or more Directors to the Board of Directors, any such shareholder may nominate a person or persons (as the case may be), for election to such position(s) as specified in the Corporation's notice of meeting, if the shareholder's notice required by paragraph (a) (2) of this Bylaw shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not earlier than the close of business on the 90th day prior to such special meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 60th day prior to such special meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees
-6- proposed by the Board of Directors to be elected at such meeting. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment of a special meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a shareholder's notice as described above. (c) (1) Only such persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Bylaw shall be eligible to serve as Directors and only such business shall be conducted at a meeting of shareholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this By-Law. Except as otherwise provided by law, the Articles of Incorporation or these Bylaws, the chairman of the meeting shall have the power and duty to determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made or proposed, as the case may be, in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Bylaw and, if any proposed nomination or business is not in compliance with this Bylaw, to declare that such defective proposal or nomination shall be disregarded. (2) For purposes of this Bylaw, "public announcement" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. (3) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Bylaw, a shareholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this Bylaw. Nothing in this Bylaw shall be deemed to affect any rights (a) of shareholders to request inclusion of proposals in the Corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act or (b) of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect Directors under specified circumstances. ARTICLE III Officers Section 1. As soon as may be after the election held in each year, the Board of Directors shall elect a President (who shall be a director), one or more Vice Presidents, one or more of whom may be designated as Executive Vice President or Senior Vice President, and a Secretary and a Treasurer and a Controller, and may elect a Chairman (who shall be a director). The Board of Directors may from time to time appoint such Assistant Secretaries, Assistant Treasurers and other officers and agents of the Corporation as it may deem proper. The same person may be elected or appointed to more than one office. Section 2. The term of office of all officers shall be one year or until their respective successors are elected, but any officer or agent may be removed, with or
-7- without cause, at any time by the affirmative vote of a majority of the members of the Board then in office. Section 3. The officers of the Corporation shall each have such powers and duties as may be prescribed from time to time by the Board of Directors or, in the absence of such prescription, the officers of the Corporation shall each have such powers and duties as generally pertain to their respective offices. The Treasurer, the Assistant Treasurers and any other officers or employees of the Corporation may be required to give bond for the faithful discharge of their duties, in such sum and of such character as the Board may from time to time prescribe. Section 4. The salaries of all officers and agents of the Corporation shall be fixed by the Board of Directors, or pursuant to such authority as the Board may from time to time prescribe. ARTICLE IV Certificates of Stock Section 1. The interest of each stockholder in the Corporation shall be evidenced by a certificate or certificates for shares of stock of the Corporation, in such form as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe. The certificates for shares of stock of the Corporation shall be signed by the President or a Vice President and the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, sealed with the seal of the Corporation (which seal may be a facsimile), and shall be countersigned and registered in such manner, if any, as the Board may by resolution prescribe. Section 2. The shares of stock of the Corporation shall be transferable on the books of the Corporation by the holders thereof in person or by duly authorized attorney, upon surrender for cancellation of certificates for a like number of shares of the same class of stock, with duly executed assignment and power of transfer endorsed thereon or attached thereto and such proof of the authenticity of the signatures as the Corporation or its agents may reasonably require. Section 3. No certificate for shares of stock of the Corporation shall be issued in place of any certificate alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed, except upon production of such evidence of the loss, theft, or destruction, and upon indemnification of the Corporation and its agents to such extent and in such manner as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe.
-8- ARTICLE V Checks, Notes, etc. All checks and drafts on the Corporation's bank accounts and all bills of exchange and promissory notes, and all acceptances, obligations and other instruments for the payment of money, shall be signed by such officer or officers or agent or agents as shall be thereunto authorized from time to time by the Board of Directors; provided that checks drawn on the Corporation's bank accounts may bear facsimile signature or signatures, affixed thereto by a mechanical device, of such officer or officers and/or agent or agents as the Board of Directors shall authorize. ARTICLE VI Fiscal Year The fiscal year of the Corporation shall begin on the first day of January in each year and shall end on the thirty-first day of December following. ARTICLE VII Corporate Seal The corporate seal shall have inscribed thereon the name of the Corporation and the works "Corporate Seal 1923 Illinois." ARTICLE VIII Indemnification Section 1. Indemnification of Directors, Officers and Employees. The Corporation shall, to the fullest extent to which it is empowered to do so by the Business Corporation Act of 1983 or any other applicable laws, as may from time to time be in effect, indemnify any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, by reason of the fact that he is or was a director, officer, employee, trustee, or fiduciary of the Corporation, or of a Corporation-sponsored or Corporation-administered trust or benefit plan, or is or was serving at the request of the Board of Directors of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee, trustee, or fiduciary of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, benefit plan, or other enterprise, against all expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by him in connection with such action, suit or proceedings.
-9- Section 2. Contract with the Corporation. The provisions of this Article VIII shall be deemed to be a contract between the Corporation and each director or officer who serves in any such capacity at any time while this Article is in effect, and any repeal or modification of this Article shall not affect any rights or obligations hereunder with respect to any state of facts then or theretofore existing or any action, suit or proceeding theretofore or thereafter brought or threatened based in whole or in part upon any such state of facts. Section 3. Other Rights of Indemnification. The indemnification provided or permitted by this Article shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which those indemnified may be entitled by law or otherwise, and shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director, officer, employee or agent and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors and administrators of such person. Section 4. Retroactivity. The provisions of this Article are to be given retroactive effect. ARTICLE IX Amendments These Bylaws, or any part thereof, may be altered, amended or repealed at any meeting of the Board of Directors, provided that notice of such meeting shall set forth the substance of such proposed change.

Exhibit 10.1 POWER PURCHASE AGREEMENT BETWEEN ILLINOIS POWER COMPANY AND DYNEGY POWER MARKETING, INC. DATED AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 2004 1
APPENDICES Appendix 1: Monthly Tier 1 Capacities Appendix 2: Maximum Energy Quantities Appendix 3: Design Limits of Primary Resources Appendix 4: Form of Guaranty Appendix 5: Sample Calculation of Charges Appendix 6: Unmetered Energy Amounts 4
POWER PURCHASE AGREEMENT THIS POWER PURCHASE AGREEMENT (this "Agreement"), dated as of 30th day of September, 2004, between ILLINOIS POWER COMPANY, an Illinois corporation ("IP"), and DYNEGY POWER MARKETING, INC., a Texas corporation ("DYPM") (IP and DYPM are sometimes referred to herein individually as a "Party" and collectively as "Parties"). WITNESSETH: WHEREAS, IP owns electric generating facilities and is currently engaged in the purchase, transmission, distribution and sale of electric energy in the State of Illinois; WHEREAS, IP and Illinova Corporation ("Illinova") entered into that certain Asset Transfer Agreement dated October 1, 1999 pursuant to which Illinova acquired from IP certain generating units; WHEREAS, Illinova Power Marketing, Inc. ("IPMI") was a wholly-owned subsidiary of Illinova and became the owner and operator of such units upon consummation of the Asset Transfer Agreement; WHEREAS, IPMI changed its name to Dynegy Midwest Generation, Inc. ("DMG"); WHEREAS, DMG is an affiliate of DYPM, and DYPM has the right to market and sell electric capacity and energy produced by such units; WHEREAS, IP will require the output of additional generating resources, in addition to those which it may own or to which it may be entitled by contracts other than this Agreement, in order to meet its service obligations under the Illinois Public Utilities Act in a safe and reliable manner and to fulfill other statutory and contractual obligations to provide electric generation and transmission services; and WHEREAS, IP desires to receive and purchase, and DYPM desires to deliver and sell, electric capacity, energy and ancillary services. NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements herein set forth, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency thereof are hereby acknowledged, the Parties agree as follows: 1. Definitions and Interpretation ------------------------------ (a) Definitions ----------- As used in this Agreement: (i) the terms set forth in this Section 1(a) shall have the respective meanings so set forth, and (ii) the terms defined elsewhere in this Agreement shall have the respective meanings therein so specified. "Alternative Resource" means any Supply Resource other than a Primary Resource; provided, that, for purposes of providing Capacity under this Agreement, an Alternative Resource shall be deemed firm if: (i) DYPM has reserved firm transmission service from such Alternative Resource to a Point of Delivery, or the Alternative Resource has been designated an IP Network Resource, and (ii) such Alternative Resource is otherwise capable of providing Capacity. "Ancillary Services" mean the services described in Section 7(i). 5
"Asset Transfer Agreement" means that certain Asset Transfer Agreement dated as of October 1, 1999 between IP and Illinova for the transfer of ownership of certain fossil-fueled generating units from IP to Illinova. "Audits" has the meaning set forth in Section 10(h). "Bandwidth Allowance" means, for any hour, the amount (in MWh) equal to the product of: (i) Scheduled Energy other than Negotiated Tier 2 Energy for such hour, multiplied by (ii) the applicable Bandwidth Percent. "Bandwidth Percent" means: (i) ten percent (10%) in calendar year 2005, and (ii) seven percent (7%) in calendar year 2006. "Bankrupt" means with respect to any entity, the state of being after such entity: (i) files a petition or otherwise commences, authorizes or acquiesces in the commencement of a proceeding or cause of action under any bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or similar law, or has any such petition filed or commenced against it, (ii) makes a general assignment for the benefit of creditors, or (iii) otherwise becomes bankrupt or insolvent (however evidenced), or (iv) has a liquidator, administrator, receiver, trustee, conservator or similar official appointed with respect to it or any substantial portion of its property or assets. "Business Day" means any Day, Monday through Friday, excluding the following holidays: New Year's Day, Memorial Day (observed), Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day. "Capacity" means firm electric load-carrying capability, expressed in megawatts, that, for those Supply Resources within MAIN, satisfies MAIN Guides and, for all other Supply Resources, satisfies IP or MISO Network Resource requirements for obtaining designated network integration transmission service under the applicable OATT and for accreditation by the applicable NERC regional reliability council or successor organizations, if applicable. "Central Prevailing Time" or "CPT" means Central Standard Time or Central Daylight Time as in effect in the State of Illinois on a given Day. "Congestion Costs" means the difference in the locational marginal prices at the Points of Delivery and the IP Zonal Price attributable to transmission system congestion, as defined in MISO's applicable FERC-approved tariff and as calculated and published by MISO. "CPS1 or CPS2 Violation" means a failure of the IP Control Area to achieve compliance with Control Performance Standard Nos. 1 or 2, as defined in NERC Operations Policy 1.E. "Credit Rating" means, with respect to any entity, the rating then assigned to such entity's unsecured, senior long-term debt obligations (not supported by third party credit enhancements) by S&P, Moody's or any other rating agency agreed by the Parties, or if such entity does not have a rating for its senior unsecured long-term debt, then the rating then assigned to such entity as an issuer rating by S&P or Moody's. "Daily A/S Schedule" has the meaning set forth in Section 7(a)(i). "Daily Energy Schedule" has the meaning set forth in Section 7(a)(i). 6
"Daily On-Peak Index" means the "into Cinergy" "on peak" index as published in the McGrawHill Companies, Inc.'s Power Markets Week's Daily Price Report - Daily Price Indexes, as such terms are defined in such publication; provided, however, that if such index is not available for a given Day, the Daily On-Peak Index shall be the PJM Average Hourly On-Peak Price. "Daily Resource Schedule" means a schedule provided by DYPM to IP for each Day, in accordance with Section 7(e). "Day" means a 24-hour period, commencing at 12:00 a.m. Central Prevailing Time, except that the "Day" shall be a 23-hour period on the first day of Daylight Savings Time each year and shall be a 25hour period on the first day following the last full day of Daylight Savings Time each year. "Delivery Services" means those services, as defined in Section 16-102 of the PUA, 220 ILCS 5/16-102, that IP provides to retail customers in its Service Area in accordance with a tariff approved or allowed into effect by the ICC pursuant to Section 16-108 of the PUA, 220 ILCS 5/16-108. "Design Limits" means the items listed in Appendix 3 with respect to the Primary Resources, as such items or Primary Resources may be changed from time to time by notice from DYPM to IP, and any similar design limits on any other Supply Resources. "DHI" means Dynegy Holdings Inc., an Illinois corporation. "DMG" means Dynegy Midwest Generation, Inc., an Illinois corporation, and formerly known as Illinova Power Marketing, Inc. "Downgrade Event" means that a Guarantor's senior unsecured debt is rated below Investment Grade. "DYPM" means Dynegy Power Marketing, Inc., a Texas corporation. "Effective Date" means the latest of: (i) January 1, 2005, (ii) the date of closing of the transaction in which Ameren Corporation or its subsidiary acquires 100 percent (100%) of the common stock of Illinois Power, or (iii) the date that this Agreement is permitted by FERC to go into effect. "Electric Energy Incorporated Interchange Agreement" means the "Power Supply Agreement between Electric Energy, Incorporated and the Sponsoring Companies", dated September 2, 1987. "Energy" means firm electric energy meeting the requirements as specified in Section 6, expressed in MWh, except that non-firm energy and transmission may be used to serve IP Load provided that Supply Resources are designated and available to meet Scheduled Load obligations under this Agreement. "Event of Default" means a failure or action listed in Section 13(a). "FERC" means the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission or any successor agency thereto. "Financial Flowgate Right" or "FFR" has such meaning as is set forth in the applicable MISO FERC-approved tariff. "Financial Transmission Right" or "FTR" has such meaning as is set forth in the applicable MISO FERC-approved tariff. 7
"Force Majeure Condition" has the meaning set forth in Section 11(b). "Force Majeure Event" has the meaning set forth in Section 11(a). "Good Utility Practice" means any of the practices, methods and acts engaged in or approved by a significant portion of the electric utility industry during the relevant time period, or any of the practices, methods and acts which, in the exercise of reasonable judgment in light of the facts known at the time the decision was made, could have been expected to accomplish the desired result consistent with law, regulation, good business practices, reliability, safety and expedition. Good Utility Practice is not intended to be limited to the optimum practice, method or act, to the exclusion of all others, but rather to be a spectrum of acceptable practices, methods or acts. "Guarantor" means: (i) with respect to DYPM, DHI, if DHI has a Credit Rating that is Investment Grade, or another guarantor with a Credit Rating that is Investment Grade and which is acceptable to IP, and (ii) with respect to IP, Ameren Corporation, if Ameren Corporation has a Credit Rating that is Investment Grade, or another guarantor with a Credit Rating that is Investment Grade and which is acceptable to DYPM. "ICC" means the Illinois Commerce Commission or any successor agency thereto. "IDC" means an Integrated Distribution Company, as defined in 83 Illinois Administrative Code Part 452, Subpart B. "Illinova" means Illinova Corporation, an Illinois corporation. "Interconnection Agreement" means that certain Second Revised Interconnection Agreement dated as of January 9, 2004 between IP and DMG, as may be amended from time to time. "Investment Grade" means a Credit Rating of at least BBB- from S&P or Baa3 from Moody's. "IP" means Illinois Power Company, an Illinois corporation. "IP Control Area" means the electric power system or combination of electric power systems to which a common automatic generation control scheme is applied by IP in order to: (i) match, at all times, the power output of the generators within the electric power system(s) and Capacity and Energy purchased from entities outside the electric power system(s), with the load within the electric power system(s); (ii) maintain, within the limits of Good Utility Practice, scheduled interchange with other control areas; and (iii) maintain the frequency and voltage of the electric power system(s) within reasonable limits in accordance with Good Utility Practice. "IP Load" means the total amount of Capacity, Energy and Ancillary Services required by IP as an IDC, in accordance with MAIN and/or MISO requirements: (i) to provide Capacity and Energy to its retail customers located within the Service Area, (ii) to provide open access transmission service to its transmission customers in accordance with the terms of an Open Access Transmission Tariff, and (iii) to provide Delivery Services to retail customers located within the Service Area in accordance with its Delivery Services tariff approved by the ICC as in effect from time-to-time; provided, that IP Load shall include such retail customers served by IP only for such time as IP is and remains an IDC; provided, further, that IP Load shall not include any sales of Capacity, Energy, or Ancillary Services to wholesale customers served by IP or any other load-serving entity; provided, further, that for purposes of this Agreement, retail customers served under competitive service contracts entered into prior to the date of this Agreement shall be considered retail customers; and, provided, further, that if IP ceases to be an IDC, 8
the IP Load shall include only those customers which IP would have been permitted to serve had IP remained an IDC. "IP System" means the electric transmission system owned by IP. "IP Zonal Price" means, when there exists an LMP Market, the price identified by MISO for Energy withdrawals from the transmission system functionally controlled by MISO at locations on the IP System. "kW" means kilowatts. "kWh" means kilowatt-hours. "Lender" or "Lenders" means: (i) any person or entity that, from time to time, has made loans, entered into a lease financing or extended other financial accommodation, directly or indirectly, to DYPM or DMG or for the financing or refinancing of any Primary Resource or Primary Resources, or of this Agreement, (ii) the holders of any bond, note or other evidence of such loans or other financial accommodation, or (iii) any person or entity acting on behalf of any such Lender or Lenders to whom any Lender's or Lenders' rights under financing documents have been transferred, any trustee on behalf of such Lender or Lenders, and any person or entity subrogated to the rights of such Lender or Lenders. "Letter of Credit" means one or more irrevocable, standby letters of credit issued by a U.S. commercial bank or a foreign bank with a U.S. branch capable of issuing letters of credit with such bank having a credit rating of at least A- from S&P or A3 from Moody's, in a form and substance acceptable to the Party in whose favor the letter of credit is issued. "LMP" means the locational marginal price for a given generator bus, as calculated and posted by MISO. "LMP Market" means, for a given hour, a system, implemented and operated by MISO, in which users of the electric transmission grid in the Midwest are charged for electric transmission congestion based on the location of the transmission busses where they inject and withdraw power from the transmission system and the prices for electric energy at such busses. Such a system may or may not include a central clearing market for sales and purchases of electric energy. A necessary characteristic of an LMP Market, however, is the calculation and publishing by MISO of prices for electric energy (in $/MWh) at the Points of Delivery. "Load Change Factor" means, with respect to any hour, the use of on-line generation to provide intra-hour changes in Energy requirements, and shall be specified as the Capacity (in MW) necessary to meet the peak demand in such hour less the equivalent quantity of MW equal to the Scheduled Energy for such hour. "Load Growth Agreement" means an agreement under which IP purchases Capacity and/or Energy to satisfy IP load growth not satisfied under the agreements identified in clauses (i) through (v) of the definition of Qualified Agreements or through purchases of Tier 1 Capacity and/or Tier 1 Energy; provided, that: (A) IP shall provide reasonable proof of the timing and amount of the growth in IP Load, (B) the amount of Capacity and Energy purchased under a Load Growth Agreement (i) shall commence no sooner than the growth in load projected by IP, (ii) shall be limited to the quantity of load growth in On-Peak and Off-Peak periods, as separately projected by IP, and (iii) Energy purchased under a Load Growth Agreement shall be scheduled by IP only after IP has scheduled as much Energy as practicable under the Qualified 9
Agreements identified in the clauses (i) through (v) of the definition of Qualified Agreements, and as much Tier 1 Energy as practicable under this Agreement, and (C) prior to entering into any Load Growth Agreement, DYPM shall have the option at its sole election to restore any Released Capacity and associated Energy under Section 5(a)(ii) in the amount of such load growth. "MAIN" means the Mid-American Interconnected Network, or any successor organization thereto, or any organization that assumes any or all of the responsibilities of MAIN that relate to this Agreement. "Maximum Energy Quantities" means the maximum amount of Energy that DYPM is obligated to provide to IP during a given hour and during a given Quarter, as applicable, as specified in Appendix 2. "Metering Point" means the location of the meter associated with a Primary Resource, generally on the low voltage side of the step-up transformer of such Primary Resource. "MISO" means the Midwest Independent Transmission System Operator, Inc., or any successor organization thereto, or any organization that has operational and/or functional control of the IP System. "Moody's" means Moody's Investor Services, Inc. "MW" means megawatts. "MWh" means megawatt-hours. "Negotiated Tier 2 Capacity" means Capacity, in addition to the Tier 1 Capacity, to be provided by DYPM to IP pursuant to a Negotiated Tier 2 Memorandum. "Negotiated Tier 2 Energy" means Energy, in addition to the Tier 1 Energy, to be provided by DYPM to IP pursuant to a Negotiated Tier 2 Memorandum. "Negotiated Tier 2 Memorandum" means a writing between the Parties setting forth the period, amount, price and other terms and conditions of any Negotiated Tier 2 Capacity and/or Negotiated Tier 2 Energy purchase agreed to between the Parties in accordance with Section 5(b)(i). "NERC" means North American Electric Reliability Council or any successor organization thereto. "Net Energy Load" means the Energy portion of the Net Load, which shall be, for any hour, the difference equal to: (i) the Energy portion of the IP Load for such hour (including any Ancillary Services converted to Energy), minus (ii) the Energy portion of Qualified Purchases for such hour. "Net Load" means, for any hour, the difference equal to: (i) the actual IP Load for such hour, minus (ii) the Qualified Purchases for such hour. "Network Integration Transmission Service" has the meaning provided in IP's or MISO' then-current Open Access Transmission Tariff. "Network Resource" has the meaning provided in IP's or MISO's then-current Open Access Transmission Tariff. "Off-Peak Hours" means, (i) on Business Days, (A) the hours ending at 1 CPT through 6 CPT, and (B) the hours ending 23 and 24 CPT, and (ii) all hours on all other Days. 10
"On-Peak Hours" means, on Business Days, the hours ending 7 CPT through 22 CPT. "Open Access Transmission Tariff" or "OATT" means IP's or MISO's then-current open access transmission tariff as accepted, approved or allowed into effect by the FERC, and any successor tariffs. "Operating Limits" means, with respect to any Supply Resource, the Design Limits and the maximum electric generating ability, minimum electric generating ability, maximum ramp rates, limits on reactive power output, and the like, that must be respected by the operator of such Supply Resource in order to comply with Good Utility Practice, as such information relating to the Supply Resource is provided by DYPM to IP and, if necessary, to MISO, from time to time. "Operating Reserve Requirement" means any obligation to maintain spinning operating reserve or supplemental operating reserve in accordance with MAIN Guide No. 5, the requirements of any other regional reliability council of which the IP System or the IP Control Area is a member, or the requirements of MISO. "Overscheduled Energy" means, for any hour, the amount, if any, by which: (i) the difference equal to (A) the Scheduled Energy with respect to such hour, minus (B) the Net Energy Load in such hour, exceeds (ii) the Bandwidth Allowance with respect to such hour; provided, however, that in no event shall Overscheduled Energy be less than zero. "PJM Average Hourly On-Peak Price" means the arithmetic mean of the sixteen (16) PJM Hourly On-Peak Prices for the applicable Day "PJM Hourly On-Peak Price" means the prices published by the PJM Interconnection for the PJM Western Hub load zone for hours ending eight (8) through twenty three (23) Eastern Prevailing Time (which correspond to the On-Peak Hours) for the applicable Day of delivery. "Point of Delivery" means, for a Primary Resource, the high voltage side of the step-up transformer closest to that Primary Resource, or, for any Alternative Resource, an interface between the IP System and the transmission system of another entity to the extent IP has the capacity to receive electric energy at such interface. "Primary Resource" means a Supply Resource identified in Appendix 3. "PUA" means the Illinois Public Utilities Act, 220 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq., as it may be amended from time to time. "PURPA" means the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978, as it may be amended from time to time. "Qualified Agreements" means: (i) the Electric Energy Incorporated Interchange Agreement; (ii) those certain agreements entered into by IP pursuant to an RFP with one or more entities under which IP will purchase, in calendar years 2005 and 2006, 400 MW of Capacity and associated Energy provided 24-hours per day each day of the year, and 300 MW of Capacity and associated Energy during hours ending 7 through 22 CPT each Business Day; (iii) any agreements with one or more entities under which IP will purchase 200 MW of Capacity and associated Energy during all hours of calendar year 2006; (iv) that certain agreement for Capacity and/or Energy between IP and State Farm Insurance Company; (v) any purchase IP is required to make under PURPA from a Qualifying Facility; (vi) any Load Growth Agreement; (vii) any purchases by IP to replace such Capacity and/or Energy not provided under the 11
terms of one or more of the foregoing agreements; and (viii) any purchases made on IP's behalf by DYPM pursuant to IP's express direction. "Qualified Purchases" means, for any hour: (i) 200 MW of Capacity and associated Energy pursuant to the Electric Energy Incorporated Interchange Agreement provided 24-hours per day, consistent with IP's permanent power schedule election under such agreement, provided that such election for 2005 is no different than such election for 2004; (ii) 400 MW of Capacity and associated Energy provided 24-hours per day each day of the year, and 300 MW of Capacity and associated Energy during hours ending 7 through 22 CPT each Business Day pursuant to those certain agreements entered into by IP pursuant to an RFP; (iii) 200 MW of Capacity and associated Energy provided under any agreements with one or more entities during all hours of calendar year 2006; (iv) purchases of Capacity and associated Energy pursuant to that certain agreement for Capacity and/or Energy between IP and State Farm Insurance Company; (v) any amounts of Capacity and Energy IP is required to purchase under PURPA from a Qualifying Facility; (vi) any amounts of Capacity and Energy purchased by IP pursuant to any Load Growth Agreement; (vii) any amounts of Capacity and Energy purchased by IP to replace such Capacity and/or Energy not provided under the terms of one or more of the foregoing agreements; (viii) any amounts of Capacity and Energy purchased on IP's behalf by DYPM pursuant to IP's express direction. "Qualifying Facility" means a qualifying facility as that term is defined by PURPA. "Quarter" means each of the three month periods ending March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 of each calendar year. "Released Capacity" has the meaning set forth in Section 5(a)(ii)(b). "Reliability Compensation" means compensation to be paid by IP to DYPM for Reliability Dispatch Energy in accordance with Section 12(f). "Reliability Dispatch" means the direction or operational control of a Primary Resource by IP or MISO in accordance with Section 7(h)(ii). "Reliability Dispatch Energy" means Energy generated by a Primary Resource under conditions of Reliability Dispatch. "RFP" means one or more Requests for Proposals for provision of electrical Capacity, Energy, and ancillary services to be issued by IP. "S&P" means Standard & Poor's Rating Group (a division of McGraw-Hill, Inc.). "Scheduled Ancillary Services" means the amount of Ancillary Services that IP schedules to be served from Supply Resources in each hour of the Day as set forth in the applicable Daily A/S Schedule. "Scheduled Energy" means the aggregate amount of Tier 1 Energy and Negotiated Tier 2 Energy, if applicable, that IP specifies for delivery by DYPM to IP in each hour on a given Day, as set forth by IP in the applicable Daily Energy Schedule. "Scheduled Load" means, collectively, the Scheduled Ancillary Services and Scheduled Energy in each hour of a given Day. "Security Guarantee" means a form of security described in Section 15. 12
"Semi-Monthly Billing Statement" has the meaning set forth in Section 10(a). "Semi-Monthly Payment" has the meaning set forth in Section 10(a). "Service Area" means the geographic area within which IP is lawfully entitled to provide Capacity and Energy to retail customers as of the date of this Agreement. "Shaped Daily On-Peak Index" means: (i) the applicable PJM Hourly On-Peak Price divided by the PJM Average Hourly On-Peak Price, multiplied (ii) by the Daily On-Peak Index. "Supplemental Energy" means, for any hour, the lesser of: (i) the difference equal to (A) the Net Energy Load in such hour, minus (B) the Scheduled Energy with respect to such hour, or (ii) the Bandwidth Allowance for such hour; provided, however, that in no event shall Supplemental Energy be less than zero. "Supply Resource" means (i) an electric generating unit capable of providing Capacity, Energy and/or Ancillary Services to which DYPM holds the rights to dispatch and/or control the operating level thereof and, accordingly, the rights to Capacity, Energy and/or Ancillary Services provided by such electric generating unit, or (ii) any contractual or similar rights to Capacity, Energy and/or Ancillary Services to which DYPM is entitled. "Surcharge Factor" means: (i) 1.175 in calendar year 2005, and (ii) 1.15 in calendar year 2006. "Term" has the meaning set forth in Section 2. "Tier 1 Capacity" means Capacity in the amounts specified in Appendix 1 (as such amounts may be reduced by the amount of Released Capacity, if any) that DYPM shall provide to IP, and IP shall purchase from DYPM, to meet IP Load, throughout the Term. "Tier 1 Capacity Price" means $4.00/kW-month. "Tier 1 Energy" means Energy, other than Negotiated Tier 2 Energy, Supplemental Energy, and Underscheduled Energy, that DYPM shall provide to IP, and IP shall purchase from DYPM, in the amounts specified in Sections 5 and 7, to meet IP Load throughout the Term. "Tier 1 Energy Price" means $30.00/MWh. "Transmission Losses" means the cost of delivering Energy on the transmission system between the point of receipt and the point of delivery attributable to real energy losses, as defined in the applicable MISO FERC-approved tariff, or as defined in the FERC pro forma Open Access Transmission Tariff applied by the applicable transmission owners. "True-Up Billing Statement" has the meaning set forth in Section 10(c). "Underscheduled Energy" means, for any hour, the amount, if any, by which (i) the difference equal to (A) the Net Energy Load in such hour, minus (B) the Scheduled Energy with respect to such hour, exceeds (ii) the Bandwidth Allowance with respect to such hour; provided, however, that in no event shall Underscheduled Energy be less than zero. 13
"Unmetered Energy" means deliveries of Energy by DYPM to IP for certain property, equipment, facilities, and appurtenances owned by IP, on land owned or controlled by DMG, used by IP to serve IP Load, as further described in Appendix 6. (b) Interpretation -------------- In this Agreement, unless a different intention clearly appears: (i) the singular number includes the plural and vice versa; (ii) the reference to any Party includes such Party's successors and assignees but, if applicable, only if such successors and assignees are permitted by this Agreement, and reference to a Party in a particular capacity excludes such Party in any other capacity or individually; (iii) reference to any gender includes the other gender; (iv) reference to any agreement (including this Agreement), document or instrument means such agreement, document or instrument as amended or otherwise modified and in effect from time to time in accordance with the terms thereof and, if applicable, the terms hereof; (v) reference to any Section or Appendix means such Section of this Agreement or such Appendix to this Agreement, as the case may be and references in any Section or definition to any clause or paragraph means such clause or paragraph of such Section or definition; (vi) "hereunder", "hereof", "hereto" and words of similar import shall be deemed references to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular Section or other provision hereof or thereof; (vii)"including" (and with correlative meaning "include") means including without limiting the generality of any description preceding such term; (viii) elative to the determination of any period of time, "from" means "from and including", "to" means "to but excluding" and "through" means "through and including"; and (ix) reference to any law (including statutes and ordinances) means such law as amended, modified, codified or reenacted, in whole or in part, and in effect from time to time, including rules and regulations, promulgated thereunder. (c) No Presumption of Construction For or Against Any Party ------------------------------------------------------- Any rule of construction or interpretation requiring this Agreement to be construed or interpreted for or against any Party shall not apply to the construction or interpretation hereof. (d) Titles and Headings ------------------- Section titles and headings in this Agreement are inserted for convenience of reference only and are not intended to be a part of or to affect the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement. 14
(e) Modification of Shaped Daily On-Peak Index ------------------------------------------ If any information needed for calculation of the Shaped Daily On-Peak Index becomes discontinued, the Parties promptly shall initiate expedited good faith negotiations in respect of an appropriate replacement index or alternate pricing methodology for immediate implementation. If the Parties reach agreement on the terms of an appropriate replacement index or alternate pricing methodology, the Parties shall reduce the agreement to writing and make it part of this Agreement, whereupon such terms shall become binding upon the Parties. If the Parties are unable to reach such agreement, such disagreement shall be resolved as provided in Section 14. 2. Term of Agreement ----------------- This Agreement shall become effective as of the Effective Date and shall continue in effect for a period ending at 11:59 p.m. CPT on December 31, 2006 (the "Term"). 3. MISO Change to Sub-Zonal or Nodal Measurement --------------------------------------------- If, during the Term of this Agreement, MISO utilizes a system for scheduling, pricing, and/or calculating congestion, losses, or other charges based on sub-zones or transmission nodes, rather than there being a single zone for the IP Load, the Parties will revise this Agreement to reflect this utilization of such sub-zonal or nodal concepts by MISO. Sections of this Agreement that shall be modified pursuant to the provisions of the foregoing sentence include, but are not limited to, Subsections 12(c), 12(d), and 12(e). For the term of this Agreement, (y) IP shall not request, without the prior written consent of DYPM, that MISO separate the IP Control Area into more than one load zone; and (z) DYPM shall not request, without the prior written consent of IP, that MISO separate the IP Control Area into more than one load zone. 4. Interconnection Agreement ------------------------- The Interconnection Agreement shall remain in effect for the duration of the Term. 5. IP's Entitlement to Capacity and Energy from DYPM ------------------------------------------------- (a) Tier 1 Capacity and Tier 1 Energy --------------------------------- (i) Base Amounts. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement and ------------- subject to the terms of this Agreement, IP shall be entitled to, and shall purchase from DYPM, and DYPM shall provide and shall sell to IP, at all times during the Term: (A) Tier 1 Capacity in the amounts specified in Appendix 1 (as such amount may be reduced by the amount of Released Capacity, if any), and (B) Tier 1 Energy and Ancillary Services in hourly amounts equal to the Scheduled Load. (ii) Capacity Release. ---------------- (a) Capacity Release for 2005. By notice dated not later than -------------------------- September 1, 2004, IP may, at its sole option and discretion, reduce the amount of Tier 1 Capacity specified in Appendix 1 of this Agreement for all months in calendar year 2005 by up to 200 MW, provided that the IP Load shall have been reduced as a result of retail customers of IP switching electricity suppliers or terminating business operations. In the event IP releases capacity in calendar year 2005 pursuant to the provisions of this Section 5(a)(ii)(a), such release shall apply in the same amount to calendar year 2006. 15
(b) Capacity Release for 2006. By notice dated not later than -------------------------- September 1, 2005, IP may, at its sole option and discretion, reduce the amount of Tier 1 Capacity specified in Appendix 1 of this Agreement for all months in calendar year 2006 by an amount not to exceed the difference between 200 MW and the amount of capacity released, if any, pursuant to IP's election under Section 5(a)(ii)(a), provided that the IP Load shall have been reduced as a result of retail customers of IP switching electricity suppliers or terminating business operations (capacity released pursuant to Sections 5(a)(ii)(a) or 5(a)(ii)(b) being the "Released Capacity"). (c) Any amounts of Tier 1 Capacity released by IP pursuant to the provisions of this Section 5(a)(ii) shall be applied notionally to each month set forth on Appendix 1. During the period of any such release (A) the Tier 1 Capacity shall be reduced by the amount of the Released Capacity, and (B) the Tier 1 Energy for each Quarter shall be reduced by an amount equal to (1) the Tier 1 Energy for such Quarter, multiplied by (2) the amount of the Released Capacity divided by the Tier 1 Capacity (prior to such reduction). (d) Any written notice of Released Capacity shall include reasonable proof of the net reduction in IP Load, and the amount of Released Capacity shall not be greater than the amount of the net reduction in IP Load. In addition to releasing Tier 1 Capacity in accordance with Subsections 5(a)(ii)(a) and (b), IP may by agreement with DYPM release any amount of Tier 1 Capacity at any time, upon such advance notice, and for such period or periods, as the Parties may agree. (b) Tier 2 Capacity and Energy -------------------------- (i) Negotiated Tier 2 Capacity and Energy. IP may purchase Negotiated ------------------------------------- Tier 2 Capacity and/or Negotiated Tier 2 Energy from DYPM for any period, in such amounts and at such price or prices, and on such terms and conditions, as the Parties may agree, if requested by IP in writing at least ten (10) Business Days prior to the start of such period, or upon shorter notice if otherwise agreed to by the Parties. The Parties shall record the period, amount, price and other terms and conditions of any Negotiated Tier 2 Capacity and/or Energy purchase in a Negotiated Tier 2 Memorandum. The Negotiated Tier 2 Memorandum shall set forth the manner in which the amount of the Negotiated Tier 2 Capacity and/or Energy provided or delivered to IP shall be determined. (ii) Supplemental Energy and Underscheduled Energy in an LMP Market. ---------------------------------------------------------------- If an LMP Market exists during any hour, IP shall acquire from MISO all Supplemental Energy and Underscheduled Energy, if any, required to meet the Net Energy Load. (iii)Supplemental Energy and Underscheduled Energy with No LMP Market. ---------------------------------------------------------------- Market. If an LMP Market does not exist during the applicable hour, IP shall (subject to the quantity limitations set forth in Section 5(f)) purchase such Supplemental Energy and Underscheduled Energy from DYPM. (c) Delivery of Energy and Ancillary Services by DYPM ------------------------------------------------- (i) Points of Delivery. All Tier 1 Energy, Negotiated Tier 2 Energy, ------------------ if any, and Ancillary Services provided by DYPM to IP shall be delivered at the Points of Delivery. To the extent DYPM provides IP Supplemental Energy or Underscheduled Energy, such Supplemental 16
Energy or Underscheduled Energy shall be delivered to the Points of Delivery. Title to such Energy or Ancillary Services shall pass from DYPM to IP at the Points of Delivery. (ii) Transmission. DYPM shall be responsible for obtaining and/or ------------ providing transmission service for the Tier 1 Energy, Negotiated Tier 2 Energy, Supplemental Energy, Underscheduled Energy, and Ancillary Services to the Points of Delivery. DYPM shall be responsible for obtaining and/or providing firm transmission of the Tier 1 Capacity and Negotiated Tier 2 Capacity, to the Points of Delivery, to the extent such Capacity is provided by Alternative Resources. IP shall be responsible for obtaining and pro-viding transmission for Tier 1 Energy, Negotiated Tier 2 Energy, Supplemental Energy, Underscheduled Energy, and Ancillary Services obtained from DYPM from the Points of Delivery to the IP Load. (iii)Transmission Losses for Alternative Resources. To the extent ------------------------------------------------- incremental Transmission Losses are incurred by IP as a consequence of the delivery of Energy by DYPM from Alternative Resources to Points of Delivery other than such Points of Delivery adjacent to Primary Resources, and not caused by the negligence of IP, DYPM shall pay to IP an amount equal to the net difference between the Transmission Losses incurred by IP for delivery of such Energy to such Points of Delivery and what such costs would have been incurred for delivery of such Energy to the Points of Delivery adjacent to Primary Resources. (d) Network Resources ----------------- IP shall annually designate the Primary Resources as Network Resources and shall be responsible for procuring the Network Integrated Transmission Service from the Primary Resources to the IP Load. IP shall comply with any request of DYPM for IP to designate an Alternative Resource as a Network Resource, to the extent permitted under the FERC-approved tariffs of IP and/or MISO. (e) Use of Capacity, Energy, and Ancillary Services ----------------------------------------------- IP shall use all Capacity, Energy, and Ancillary Services provided hereunder only to serve Net Load. IP shall not resell to any customer not included in the IP Load any Energy, Capacity or Ancillary Services provided by DYPM under this Agreement, except as provided in Section 5(g)(ii). (f) Minimum and Maximum Energy Quantities ------------------------------------- (i) Minimum Energy. The Scheduled Energy for any hour shall not be --------------- less than, and IP shall be obligated to schedule and purchase not less than, the anticipated Net Energy Load. (ii) Maximum Capacity. DYPM shall not be obligated, pursuant to this ---------------- Agreement, to provide to IP more Capacity, at any point in time or in any period, than the lesser of: (A) the Capacity volumes specified in Appendix 1 for a given month plus any similar maximum Negotiated Tier 2 Capacity amount specified in a Negotiated Tier 2 Memorandum for that month, or (B) the Capacity component of the Net Load. (iii)Maximum Hourly Energy. DYPM shall not be obligated, pursuant to --------------------- this Agreement, to provide any Energy to IP in any hour, aggregated across all Points of Delivery, in excess of the lesser of: (A) the Maximum Hourly Energy Quantities set forth in Appendix 2 plus any applicable hourly maximums for Negotiated Tier 2 Energy specified in a Negotiated Tier 2 Memorandum, or (B) the Net Energy Load. 17
(iv) Maximum Quarterly Energy. DYPM shall not be obligated, pursuant ------------------------ to this Agreement, to provide any Energy to IP in any hour if provision of such Energy would cause the sum of the Energy delivered to IP pursuant to this Agreement during the present Quarter to exceed applicable Maximum Quarterly Energy Quantity set forth on Appendix 2 plus any applicable quarterly maximums for Negotiated Tier 2 Energy specified in a Negotiated Tier 2 Memorandum. (v) Net Load. The Net Load (including the Net Energy Load) shall not -------- be increased due to the failure of any provider of Capacity, Energy, or Ancillary Services under a Qualified Agreement to provide the full amount of Qualified Purchases, and in no event shall DYPM be obligated pursuant to this Agreement to provide any Capacity, Energy, or Ancillary Services to replace such Qualified Purchases. (vi) Released Capacity. The maximum amounts set forth in Sections ------------------ 5(f)(ii), (iii), and (iv) shall be reduced by the amount of any Released Capacity and corresponding Energy as provided in Section 5(a)(ii). (g) Right to Market Energy and Ancillary Services to Third Parties -------------------------------------------------------------- (i) DYPM shall be entitled to sell to any other party, consistent with applicable tariffs and/or regulations, Tier 1 Energy and Ancillary Services to which IP is entitled under this Agreement, but does not schedule in any period, for DYPM's own account and at its own risk, and DYPM shall have no obligation to account to IP for any revenues or profits received by DYPM as a result of such sales; provided, that nothing in this Section 5(g)(i) shall excuse or limit DYPM's obligation to provide to IP in any period, Tier 1 Capacity, Tier 1 Energy and related Ancillary Services to which IP is entitled under this Agreement. (ii) In the event there does not exist an LMP Market and Scheduled Energy exceeds Net Energy Load for a given hour, IP shall have the exclusive right to sell such excess Energy to third parties. Without limiting IP's scheduling and payment obligations hereunder (including the obligation to schedule the Net Load), IP shall not be required to pay to DYPM any revenues received from such sales. (h) Limit on IP Purchases of Capacity and Energy from Third Parties --------------------------------------------------------------- (i) Except as provided in Section 5(h)(ii), IP shall purchase exclusively from DYPM all of IP's Energy and Capacity requirements to serve the IP Load, except for (a) Qualified Purchases and/or (b) Supplemental Energy or Underscheduled Energy obtained from MISO as provided herein. (ii) IP shall provide DYPM notice of the term of and amounts of Capacity and amounts of Energy to be purchased under any Qualified Agreement within ten (10) days after IP's entry into such Qualified Agreement, but in no case later than the effective date of such Qualified Agreement. (iii) Notwithstanding any provision in this Agreement to the contrary, nothing in this Agreement shall restrict IP's ability to purchase Capacity, Energy and/or Ancillary Services pursuant to Qualified Agreements. 18
(i) DYPM Supply Resources --------------------- DYPM shall be free to meet its supply obligations under this Agreement with any combination of Supply Resources chosen by DYPM in DYPM's sole discretion. 6. Quality of Energy Supplied by DYPM ---------------------------------- All Energy which DYPM shall deliver to IP pursuant to this Agreement, whether generated or procured by DYPM, shall be in the form of three-phase alternating current having a nominal frequency of approximately 60 cycles per second, a harmonic content consistent with the requirements of the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers Standard No. 519, and a voltage content consistent with the guidelines applied by IP to the IP System. 7. Scheduling ---------- (a) Scheduling of IP Load --------------------- (i) IP shall provide DYPM with a Daily Energy Schedule, no later than 6:30 a.m. CPT of the preceding Business Day, setting forth the aggregated amount of Scheduled Energy during each hour of the applicable Day. IP shall provide DYPM with a Daily A/S Schedule, no later than 6:30 a.m. CPT of the preceding Business Day, setting forth the aggregated amount of Scheduled Ancillary Services during each hour of the applicable Day. If an LMP Market does not exist and IP anticipates that Net Energy Load will be materially different than Scheduled Energy, IP will use its best efforts to communicate such expectations to DYPM at least seventy-five (75) minutes before the hour of delivery; provided, that for purposes of determining Supplemental Energy, Overscheduled Energy, Underscheduled Energy, and any amount payable pursuant to Section 12, only the daily forecast delivered at 6:30 a.m. CPT of the preceding Business Day shall be designated as the Scheduled Energy. If IP does not provide DYPM a Daily Energy Schedule or Daily A/S Schedule for a given Day by the required time, the forecasted Energy or Ancillary Services, as appropriate, specified for the applicable Day in the most recent rolling 10-Day Energy and Ancillary Services forecast, pursuant to Section 7(c), shall be deemed to be the Daily Energy Schedule or Daily A/S Schedule, as applicable. (ii) IP shall use good faith efforts to ensure that Scheduled Energy and Scheduled Ancillary Services for a given hour shall equal the anticipated Net Load for such hour, subject to the quantity limits set forth in Sections 5(f) and 7(i), and to the provisions of Section 5(h). (iii) The Daily Energy Schedule or the Daily A/S Schedule can be amended by mutual agreement of the Parties to reflect any Energy or Ancillary Services that may be requested by DYPM, provided that DYPM remains obligated to provide the amounts of Capacity, Energy, and Ancillary Services otherwise required by this Agreement. (b) Reserve Nomination/Ancillary Services ------------------------------------- As part of the Daily A/S Schedule provided pursuant to Section 7(a), IP shall specify hourly amounts of Tier 1 Capacity to be held as reserves for Spinning Reserves, Non-Spinning Reserves, Regulation and other Ancillary Services consistent with the applicable MAIN and/or MISO tariff requirements and Section 7(i), and shall specify the Load Change Factor for each hour. 19
(c) Rolling 10-Day Energy and Ancillary Services Forecast ----------------------------------------------------- By 10:00 a.m. CPT each Day, IP shall submit to DYPM a non-binding 10-day forecast of the hourly IP Load including Ancillary Services, to be provided by DYPM under this Agreement. (d) Monthly Energy and Ancillary Services Forecast ---------------------------------------------- IP shall submit to DYPM, no later than the fifteenth (15th) day of each month, a non-binding monthly forecast of the hourly IP Load, including Ancillary Services, to be provided by DYPM under this Agreement for the following three months. (e) DYPM Daily Resource Schedule ---------------------------- (i) No later than 11:00 a.m. CPT, DYPM shall provide to IP a Daily Resource Schedule for the next Day, identifying Supply Resources sufficient to provide Tier 1 Capacity, Negotiated Tier 2 Capacity, if any, Scheduled Energy and Scheduled Ancillary Services to meet the Scheduled Load. (ii) The Supply Resources listed on the Daily Resource Schedule shall be Network Resources such that IP can use Network Integration Transmission Service under the IP OATT to move Energy and Ancillary Services provided by DYPM from the Supply Resources to IP's load busses. IP shall, in cooperation with DYPM, identify the Supply Resources as IP Network Resources pursuant to obtaining Network Integration Transmission Service under the IP and/or MISO OATT. If Alternative Resources are designated by DYPM, DYPM shall provide, in addition to the Alternative Resources identified in the Daily Resource Schedule, the applicable OASIS schedules identifying firm transmission capacity from such Alternative Resources to the Points of Delivery. (f) Scheduling with MISO -------------------- DYPM and IP shall cooperate in efforts to undertake all actions necessary to schedule transmission of Capacity, Energy, or Ancillary Services: (i) to the Points of Delivery and/or (ii) from the Points of Delivery to the IP Load. (g) DYPM Failure to Provide Capacity, Energy, and/or Ancillary Services ------------------------------------------------------------------- (i) Additional Actions. In the event that DYPM fails to provide ------------------- Energy, and/or Ancillary Services as required by this Agreement, and such failure is not excused pursuant to the terms of this Agreement or applicable law, and is not the result of actions or inactions by IP, DYPM shall promptly procure and/or dispatch sufficient additional Supply Resources to meet such requirements. In the event DYPM fails promptly to procure and/or dispatch such additional Supply Resources as required in the foregoing sentence, IP shall take reasonable actions, consistent with Good Utility Practice, to maintain the balance of electric supply and electric load on the IP System and in the IP Control Area, including obtaining additional Energy, and/or Ancillary Services as necessary to balance electric supply and electric load on the IP System and in the IP Control Area. (ii) Cover Costs ----------- (y) Capacity. If and to the extent: (A) DYPM fails, for at least -------- five (5) consecutive Days, (i) to identify Supply Resources with Capacity sufficient to meet 2
Scheduled Load or (ii) to deliver Capacity from Supply Resources identified on a Daily Resource Schedule, and (B) such failure of DYPM (i) is not excused by the terms of this Agreement or applicable law and (ii) is not the result of actions or inactions by IP, then, (1) after consultation with DYPM, IP shall be entitled to purchase Capacity that it reasonably anticipates that DYPM will be unable to supply, provided that any such purchases are communicated to DYPM, and, provided, further, that any such purchases are only to the extent of any such anticipated inability of DYPM to provide capacity, and (2) DYPM shall reimburse IP for the out-of-pocket costs reasonably incurred by IP to obtain replacement Capacity from a third-party on commercially equivalent terms and conditions for the period of such anticipated continuing failure in excess of the amounts IP otherwise would have been obligated to pay DYPM hereunder for such Capacity, including replacement Capacity and firm transmission. (z) Energy. If and to the extent: (A) DYPM fails to procure ------ and/or dispatch sufficient additional Supply Resources to supply Energy in accordance with Section 7(g)(i), and (B) such failure of DYPM (i) is not excused by the terms of this Agreement or applicable law and (ii) is not the result of actions or inactions by IP, then DYPM shall reimburse IP for the third-party, out-of-pocket costs reasonably incurred by IP to obtain replacement Energy for the period of such failure on commercially equivalent terms and conditions as a result of such failure in excess of the amounts IP otherwise would have been obligated to pay DYPM hereunder for such Energy, including replacement Energy and transmission, Congestion Costs, and related Transmission Losses. (iii)Documentation Requirements. IP shall provide all supporting --------------------------- documentation reasonably required to substantiate and verify the cover costs described in Section 7(g)(ii). (iv) CPS1 or CPS2 Violations. If and to the extent IP demonstrates ------------------------ that DYPM has failed to provide Scheduled Ancillary Services as required by this Agreement or otherwise fails to operate Supply Resources in accordance with Operating Limits, and such failure is not excused by the terms of this Agreement or applicable law and is not the result of actions or inactions by IP: (A) DYPM shall reimburse IP for the penalties incurred by IP as a consequence of any resulting CPS1 or CPS2 Violation by IP, and (B) DYPM shall provide any increase in quantities of Ancillary Services required by MAIN or MISO as a consequence thereof, at DYPM's expense. Except as provided in this Section 7(g)(iv), DYPM shall have no obligation or liability with respect to any CPS1 or CPS2 Violation by IP. (v) Mitigation. IP shall use commercially reasonable efforts to ---------- mitigate the costs incurred in obtaining such replacement Capacity, Energy and/or Ancillary Services, and, for avoidance of doubt, DYPM shall have no obligation to reimburse any costs incurred by IP to obtain quantities of Capacity, Energy, or Ancillary Services in excess of quantity of each class of service required to be provided by DYPM hereunder. (h) Dispatch to Serve IP Load and Reliability Dispatch -------------------------------------------------- (i) Except as provided in Section 7(h)(ii), DYPM shall control, cause to be controlled the operation of, or otherwise utilize, the Supply Resources identified by DYPM for providing Capacity, Energy and/or Ancillary Services for purposes of serving the IP Load as required by this Agreement. DYPM shall dispatch such Supply Resources as required by this Agreement in the manner required to support compliance with applicable requirements and guidelines of NERC, MAIN, any other regional reliability council of which the IP System or IP Control Area is a member, and the MISO. 21
(ii) IP shall be authorized to direct DYPM to dispatch any Primary Resource out of economic dispatch order, subject to the Operating Limits or to any other limits reasonably imposed by DYPM or DMG, if and to the extent such redispatch is necessary in the sole judgment of IP to ensure the reliability of the IP System, to maintain the integrity of the IP System, or to fulfill a requirement of the Open Access Transmission Tariff or other applicable tariff, or a requirement or directive of NERC, MAIN, any other regional reliability council of which the IP System or IP Control Area is a member, or MISO, notwithstanding that such dispatch may be contrary to principles of economic dispatch or to a previously-established planned outage schedule ("Reliability Dispatch"). Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no case shall DYPM be required to operate any Primary Resource in a manner which exceeds the Operating Limits or which, in DYPM's reasonable judgment, jeopardizes the health or safety of any person or property or the safety or integrity of the Primary Resource. Redispatch of a Primary Resource to provide reactive power support, including emergency redispatch or nonemergency redispatch, is covered in and subject to the Interconnection Agreement. (iii) DYPM shall be entitled to Reliability Compensation from IP in accordance with Section 12(f) for Reliability Dispatch Energy. IP acknowledges and agrees that this Agreement and the foregoing provisions of this Section 7(h) in particular do not apply to or authorize or allow any action by or direction from IP relating to returning the IP System to normal operation in the event of a whole or partial blackout on the IP System, and that any rights or obligations with respect thereto shall be governed by a separate black start service agreement directly between IP and DMG. (i) Ancillary Services ------------------ IP shall specify in the Daily A/S Schedule no more than those Ancillary Services necessary to meet the then-applicable MAIN and/or MISO requirements for Ancillary Services for the IP Load, subject to the limitations specified in this Section 7(i), after use of all other sources of Ancillary Services available to IP. DYPM shall be obligated to provide to IP only those Ancillary Services specified in such Daily A/S Schedule. DYPM shall have no obligation under this Agreement to provide reserve sharing services to IP or on IP's behalf to other entities or otherwise to respond to a reserve-sharing event. IP shall minimize the amount of Ancillary Services required to be provided by DYPM by, in good faith, maintaining or increasing existing customer demand side qualified resources for both spinning and nonspinning reserves and maintaining or increasing the provision of self-supplied Ancillary Services by transmission system customers in effect as of the date of execution of this Agreement. Furthermore, DYPM shall determine the specific Supply Resources from which Ancillary Services will be provided. Unless otherwise specifically set forth in this Agreement, there will be no separate charge for these Ancillary Services not converted to Supplemental Energy or Underscheduled Energy. Beginning on the date, if any, that MISO starts to operate a market for Ancillary Services, IP shall compensate DYPM for the provision of Ancillary Services in excess of the minimum amount required by MAIN or MISO on the date of this Agreement (except as set forth in Section 7(g)(ii)). Reciprocally, beginning on the same date, IP shall be compensated by DYPM for the provision of Ancillary Services less than the minimum amount required by MAIN or MISO on the date of this Agreement. "Ancillary Services" shall consist of the following: (i) Spinning Reserves. This service is defined as the amount of ------------------ generation which is on-line and loaded at less than maximum output, ready to serve additional demand and which can be fully applied in 10 minutes in the event of a system contingency. (ii) Non-Spinning Reserves. This service is defined as the amount of ---------------------- generating capability not connected to the system but capable of serving demand within 10 minutes. 22
(iii) Regulation. This service is defined as the amount of generating ---------- capability in the form of Spinning Reserves necessary to provide for the continuous balancing of resources (generation and interchange) with load. Regulation service is accomplished by committing online generation whose output is raised or lowered (predominantly through the use of automatic generating control equipment) as necessary to follow the moment-by-moment changes in load. (iv) Frequency Response Service. This service is defined as the amount -------------------------- of generating capability necessary to maintain scheduled interconnection frequency at sixty cycles per second (60 Hertz). If, however, the services contemplated by the MISO and/or its tariff, including the Ancillary Services provided hereunder, are changed materially from those in effect on the date of this Agreement, the Parties shall cooperate to make conforming changes to this Agreement to fulfill the purposes of this Agreement; provided, that no such changes shall alter the allocation between the Parties of the economic benefits and risks of this Agreement. 8. Financial Transmission Rights and Financial Flowgate Rights; Congestion ----------------------------------------------------------------------- Cost ---- (a) Congestion Credit ----------------- Following the implementation of an LMP Market: (i) DYPM shall reimburse IP for any charges for Congestion Costs imposed by MISO on IP associated with transmitting Tier 1 Energy, Negotiated Tier 2 Energy (if such Negotiated Tier 2 Memorandum provides that DYPM shall be responsible for such Congestion Costs), Supplemental Energy, and Underscheduled Energy from Supply Resources to the IP Load, and (ii) in the event IP holds FTRs or FFRs on DYPM's behalf, IP shall pass-through to DYPM any financial benefits and financial obligations received from or imposed by MISO associated with holding such FTRs or FFRs on DYPM's behalf. In accordance with the foregoing sentence, DYPM shall credit or debit IP, as appropriate, for the amount of any such amounts charged or credited by MISO to IP on the True-Up Billing Statement issued following the receipt from MISO of necessary data for completion of such calculations. (b) Financial Transmission Rights ----------------------------- (i) Annual Load Forecast -------------------- No later than fifteen (15) Business Days prior to MISO-established deadline for submitting to MISO nominations for FTRs or FFRs, IP shall provide DYPM with an annual forecast of the IP Load, by month. IP shall use its best efforts in developing such load forecast but shall not be responsible to DYPM for any differences between the forecast and actual IP Load. (ii) FTR/FFR Nomination ------------------ At least two (2) Business Days prior to the MISO-established deadline for submitting to MISO nominations for FTRs or FFRs, DYPM shall provide IP a list of the FTRs and/or FFRs that DYPM wishes IP to have allocated by MISO in order to reduce DYPM's net liability to reimburse IP for Congestion Costs in accordance with Section 8(a). IP shall include such nominated FTRs and FFRs identified by DYPM in IP's list of nominated FTRs and FFRs submitted to MISO. IP shall in no way be restricted from nominating FTRs and/or FFRs in addition to those identified by DYPM. 23
(iii) FTR/FFR Allocation ------------------ IP shall assign to DYPM at no charge (except for any administrative charges assessed by MISO), for the Term of this Agreement, all FTRs and FFRs allocated to IP by MISO that correspond to the nominated FTRs and FFRs requested by DYPM, provided, however, that such FTRs and FFRs may be reduced pro rata to the extent that the quantity of FTRs and FFRs allocated to IP is less than the quantity of FTRs and FFRs nominated by IP; and, provided, further, that FTRs and FFRs so allocated shall be provided first to IP Load served by Qualified Agreements and DYPM pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement, prior to providing any FTRs and FFRs applicable to other IP Load. IP shall be entitled to receive FTRs and/or FFRs associated with Qualified Agreements in the same pro rata manner. In no event shall DYPM have rights to any FTRs or FFRs provided by MISO to IP to the extent such FTRs or FFRs are in effect following the Term of this Agreement. In the event MISO does not permit the assignment of FTRs or FFRs from IP to DYPM, (x) IP shall pass-through to DYPM at no charge all financial benefits provided by MISO to IP as a result of IP holding those FTRs or FFRs as if such FTRs or FFRs had in fact been assigned to DYPM; (y) IP shall pass-through to DYPM all financial obligations imposed by MISO on IP as a result of IP holding those FTRs or FFRs as if such FTRs or FFRs had in fact been assigned to DYPM, including any administrative charges assessed by MISO. DYPM shall provide to IP such forms of credit as MISO may require from IP as a result of IP holding such FTRs or FFRs on DYPM's behalf. (iv) Other FTRs or FFRs ------------------ To the extent DYPM utilizes or intends to utilize Alternative Resources to supply the Net Load, and so requests that IP seek, on DYPM behalf, certain FTRs or FFRs from MISO, IP will use reasonable efforts to request such FTRs or FFRs on DYPM's behalf. If such FTRs or FFRs are unavailable or cannot be obtained despite IP's reasonable efforts, IP shall notify DYPM as soon as practicable, and DYPM will reimburse IP for any Congestion Costs and related Transmission Losses arising from DYPM's use of such Alternative Resources rather than Primary Resources for delivery of its supply obligations hereunder. DYPM shall bear all costs, if any, related to obtaining FTRs or FFRs pursuant to this Section 8(b)(iv). 9. Metering and Meters ------------------- (a) Metering -------- (i) All Energy delivered by DYPM to IP from a Primary Resource shall be metered at the existing meter installations located at the Metering Points. Such metering installations shall be provided, installed and maintained pursuant to the Interconnection Agreement. Such meters shall be kept under seal, and such seals shall be broken only by DYPM and only when the meters are to be tested or adjusted. (ii) At IP's option and expense, back-up meters may be installed at any Metering Point. Back-up meters shall be installed, owned, tested and maintained in accordance with procedures to be agreed upon by the Parties. (b) Meter Testing and Inaccuracies ------------------------------ The meters shall be tested, any adjustments to the billing statements shall be made, and records relating to the meters shall be maintained, as provided in Sections 11.3 through 11.7 of the Interconnection Agreement, which Sections are incorporated herein by reference, mutatis mutandis. ------- -------- 24
10. Billing and Payment ------------------- (a) Semi-Monthly Billing Statements and Payments -------------------------------------------- (i) Semi-Monthly Billing Statements ------------------------------- DYPM shall provide to IP, on the fifteenth (15th) day of a month or, if such date is not a Business Day, on the next succeeding Business Day, a Semi-Monthly Billing Statement setting forth: (A) one-half of the monthly charge for Tier 1 Capacity and Negotiated Tier 2 Capacity, if any, for that month; (B) the total MWh of Tier 1 Energy reflected in the Daily Energy Schedules for the first through fifteenth (15th) days of that month, (C) if applicable, the price charged by DYPM for any Negotiated Tier 2 Energy as well as the total MWh of Negotiated Tier 2 Energy reflected in the Daily Energy Schedules for the first through fifteenth (15th) days of that month, and (D) based on the information provided in clauses (A) through (C) of this Section 10(a), the total amount due from IP to DYPM as a Semi-Monthly Payment for the first through fifteenth (15th) days of that month. DYPM shall provide to IP, on the last day of a month or, if such date is not a Business Day, on the next succeeding Business Day, a Semi-Monthly Billing Statement setting forth: (w) one-half of the monthly charge for Tier 1 Capacity and Negotiated Tier 2 Capacity, if any, for that month; (x) the total MWh of Tier 1 Energy reflected in the Daily Energy Schedules for the sixteenth (16th) through last days of that month, (y) if applicable, the price charged by DYPM for any Negotiated Tier 2 Energy as well as the total MWh of Negotiated Tier 2 Energy reflected in the Daily Energy Schedules for the sixteenth (16th) through last days of that month, and (z) based on the information provided in clauses (w) through (y) of this Section 10(a), the total amount due from IP to DYPM as a Semi-Monthly Payment for the sixteenth (16th) through last days of that month. (ii) Semi-Monthly Payment -------------------- On or before the third (3rd) Business Day following provision of a Semi-Monthly Billing Statement by DYPM to IP, IP shall pay DYPM, by electronic funds transfer, the total amount due from IP to DYPM as specified in such Semi-Monthly Billing Statement (a "Semi-Monthly Payment"); provided, however, that IP may reduce the amount paid as a result of a good faith dispute with the information provided in the Semi-Monthly Billing Statement, to the extent of the amount disputed as provided in Section 10(e). (b) Provision of Final Monthly Data to DYPM --------------------------------------- On or before the fifth (5th) Business Day of a calendar month, IP and DYPM shall exchange all data in their respective possessions reasonably necessary to calculate the True-Up Monthly Billing Statement to be prepared by DYPM hereunder; provided, however, that IP shall provide to DYPM all information necessary to calculate Supplemental Energy, Overscheduled Energy, and Underscheduled Energy as soon as provided by MISO to IP. (c) True-Up Billing Statements -------------------------- DYPM shall prepare True-Up Billing Statements under this Agreement no more frequently than once per calendar month. True-Up Billing statements shall show all usage amounts, unit charges and billing calculations used in calculation of such True-Up Billing Statement, including the following items: 25
(i) Tier 1 Capacity and Negotiated Tier 2 Capacity, in MW. (ii) Tier 1 Energy, Negotiated Tier 2 Energy, Supplemental Energy, Overscheduled and Underscheduled Energy, by hour and in total, in MWh (specifying the amount of each determined, as applicable, through meter readings or, for Energy delivered from Alternative Resources, through schedules). (iii) Scheduled Energy, by hour and in total, in MWh. (iv) Reliability Dispatch Energy, separated into incremental Energy and decremental Energy, by hour and in total, in MWh. (v) Tier 1 Capacity Price in $/kW-month, Negotiated Tier 2 Capacity Price, Negotiated Tier 2 Energy Price, Tier 1 Energy Price, and Supplemental Energy Price, in $/MWh. (vi) Daily On-Peak Index, PJM Hourly On-Peak Price, Shaped Daily On-Peak Index, in $/MWh. (vii) In the event an LMP Market exists, the IP Zonal Price and the LMP at each Point of Delivery, for all hours, in $/MWh. (viii) Charges for Tier 1 Capacity and Tier 1 Energy, in accordance with Section 12(a). (ix) Charges for Negotiated Tier 2 Capacity and Negotiated Tier 2 Energy, if applicable, in accordance with Section 12(b). (x) Charges relating to Supplemental Energy, in accordance with Section 12(c). (xi) Charges or surcharges relating to Underscheduled Energy, in accordance with Section 12(d). (xii) Surcharges relating to Overscheduled Energy, in accordance with Section 12(e). (xiii) Reliability Compensation, in accordance with Section 12(f). (xiv) Charges or credits for Congestion Costs, in accordance with Section 8(a), as well as sub-components leading to such charges or credits. (xv) Credits for the cost of any replacement Capacity or Energy obtained by IP during such month, in accordance with Section 7(g)(ii). (xvi) Congestion Costs and Transmission Losses for deliveries from Alternative Resources. (xvii) Financial benefits provided by MISO to IP as a result of IP holding FTRs or FFRs on DYPM's behalf, in accordance with Section 8(a). 26
(xviii) Financial obligations imposed by MISO on IP as a result of IP holding FTRs or FFRs on DYPM's behalf, in accordance with Section 8(a). (xix) Administrative charges assessed by MISO as a result of IP holding FTRs or FFRs on DYPM's behalf, in accordance with Sections 8(b)(iii) and 8(b)(iv). (xx) Total amount of Semi-Monthly Payments made by IP to DYPM pursuant to Section 10(a). (xxi) Net payment due from IP to DYPM or net credit due from DYPM to IP. Net payment due from IP to DYPM pursuant to a True-Up Billing Statement shall be due on the due date of the next Semi-Monthly Payment that occurs at least five (5) Business Days after such True-Up Billing Statement was provided to IP. If the IP Load is recalculated, or if any other amount required to prepare a True-Up Billing Statement is recalculated or restated not more than twelve (12) months after the date of such True-Up Billing Statement, the True-Up Billing Statement shall be recalculated and adjusted in a subsequent True-Up Monthly Billing Statement after such recalculation. (d) Interest on Late Payments ------------------------- Amounts due from one Party to the other and not paid by the due date specified in Sections 10(a)(ii), 10(c), or 10(i), as applicable, shall bear interest at the prime rate posted by BankOne Illinois, or its corporate successor, from the due date until the date of payment. Any amount paid by one Party to the other that is later determined to have been in excess of the payment due shall accrue interest at such rate from the date payment was made until the date such overpayment is returned or credited to the Party owed. (e) Billing Disputes ---------------- (i) If DYPM or IP disputes in good faith any data provided by the other Party pursuant to this Section 10, or if IP disputes any portion of the any bill prepared pursuant to this Section 10, the Party disputing the data or bill shall provide written notice of the portion of the data or bill which is disputed to the other Party. IP shall pay the undisputed portion of such bill. Payment of the disputed amount or any billing adjustment which is necessary as a result of this Section 10(e) shall not be required until the dispute is resolved. The Parties shall use diligent, good faith efforts to resolve such dispute as promptly as possible. Disputes arising under this Section 10(e) which have not been resolved within thirty (30) days following notice of the dispute to the other Party shall be resolved in accordance with Section 14. (ii) Upon resolution of the dispute, any required payment shall be made within two (2) Business Days of such resolution along with interest as described in Section 10(d) from and including the due date but excluding the date paid. Any dispute with respect to data or a bill is waived unless the other Party is notified in accordance with Section 10(e)(i) within twelve (12) months of the date of such bill. (f) Right of Set-Off ---------------- (Reserved.) 27
(g) Maintenance of Records ---------------------- IP and DYPM shall keep and maintain all records and calculations supporting each billing statement submitted to IP (including all supporting data which was provided by DYPM) for three (3) years following the date the billing statement was submitted to IP. (h) Audit Rights ------------ (i) IP shall be entitled to cause independent audits to be performed of the billing statements provided by DYPM in accordance with this Section 10, including supporting documentation and calculations. Similarly, each Party shall be entitled to cause independent audits to be performed of the data provided by the other Party in accordance with this Section 10, including supporting documentation and calculations. Such audits (collectively, "Audits") may be performed at the request of each Party no more than once in a calendar year, unless the Party being audited consents to more frequent Audits, and shall cover all monthly data or billing statements prepared by IP or DYPM, respectively, subsequent to the last preceding Audit, if any. Within twelve (12) months following termination of this Agreement, either Party shall be entitled to cause an Audit to be performed applicable to the time period subsequent to the last preceding Audit, if any. (ii) Such Audits shall be conducted by an independent auditor selected by the Party invoking its right to audit pursuant to this Section 10(h). The Party being audited shall give the independent auditor access to all records, calculations and work papers necessary for the auditor to audit and verify the accuracy of the data or monthly billing statements prepared, as applicable. The independent auditor shall establish such procedures as are necessary to prevent any market information or other confidential information of one Party from being disclosed to the other Party, and shall agree in writing as a condition of engagement not to disclose any such information to the Party invoking its right to audit pursuant to this Section 10(h). Any amount which the auditor finds, as a result of an error in a monthly data or billing statements provided by one Party to the other, to be owed from one Party to the other Party shall be paid by the Party owing such amount within thirty (30) days following the date of the auditor's report, with interest at the rate determined in accordance with Section 10(d) from the date payment was originally due on the monthly billing statement which the auditor finds to have been in error or the date paid or repaid. (i) True-Up Billing Statement Applicable to Final Month of Term ----------------------------------------------------------- No later than ten (10) Business Days following receipt by DYPM from MISO and IP of all data necessary to calculate a True-Up Billing Statement covering the final month of the Term of this Agreement, DYPM shall provide to IP a True-Up Billing Statement covering: (i) the period between the month covered by the most recently provided True-Up Billing Statement and the final month of the Term, and (ii) the final month of the Term. Solely with regards to the True-Up Billing Statement provided in accordance with this Section 10(i), the Party owing money shall pay to the other Party the undisputed amount indicated on such True-Up Billing Statement, by electronic funds transfer, on or before the fifth (5th) Business Day following presentation of the billing statement to IP. 28
11. Force Majeure Events -------------------- (a) Occurrences Constituting Force Majeure Events --------------------------------------------- A "Force Majeure Event" means an event or circumstance which prevents a Party from performing its obligations under this Agreement, which event or circumstance is not within the reasonable control of, or the result of the negligence of such Party, and which, by the exercise of due diligence, such Party is unable to overcome or avoid or cause to be avoided, including: (i) explosion or fire not caused by the negligence of the Party claiming force majeure, (ii) flood, earthquake, storm or other revulsions of nature or natural calamity or Act of God, (iii) war, insurrection, riot or civil disobedience or unrest, (iv) acts of sabotage, or (v) any other event, occurrence or circumstance beyond the reasonable control of the affected party, whether or not of the same class or character as those enumerated in this sentence; provided, however, that equipment failure shall not constitute a Force Majeure Event. (b) Invocation of Force Majeure Condition ------------------------------------- A Force Majeure Condition shall exist only upon declaration thereof by a Party by written or oral notice to the other Party (with any such oral notice to be promptly confirmed in writing) that a Force Majeure Event has occurred or is occurring. Such notice shall be given by the Party claiming a Force Majeure Condition to the other Party as soon as practicable after the Force Majeure Event occurs. Such written notice or, if oral notice is given, the written confirmation thereof, shall provide all relevant particulars about the Force Majeure Event, including the anticipated duration of the Force Majeure Condition. (c) Consequences of Force Majeure Condition --------------------------------------- (i) During a Force Majeure Condition, and to the extent a Party's performance is prevented by a Force Majeure Event, the Party claiming a Force Majeure Condition shall have no obligation to supply or receive Capacity, Energy or Ancillary Services to or from the other Party, or from the Supply Resources affected by the Force Majeure Condition, and shall have no obligation to supply or reimburse the other Party for any replacement Capacity, Energy or Ancillary Services therefore. In the event DYPM claims a Force Majeure Condition, any Tier 1 Capacity and Negotiated Tier 2 Capacity to which IP was otherwise entitled during the period that the Force Majeure Condition is in effect shall be reduced by the amount of the Capacity affected by the Force Majeure Condition, with such amount of affected Capacity being first allocated to Negotiated Tier 2 Capacity and then to Tier 1 Capacity, up to the total amount of Capacity affected by the Force Majeure Event. The Tier 1 Energy, Negotiated Tier 2 Energy and amount of Ancillary Services required to be provided by DYPM shall be reduced on a ratable basis. (ii) During a Force Majeure Condition, IP's obligation to pay Capacity charges pursuant to Sections 12(a) and 12(b) shall be reduced pro rata by the ratio of the Capacity rendered unavailable to the sum of the Tier 1 Capacity and the Negotiated Tier 2 Capacity, for the month or months, or portions thereof, during which the Force Majeure Condition continues. (iii) Any Party claiming a Force Majeure Condition shall and shall cause its affiliates or, where applicable, other unit owners or operators, to exercise all reasonable efforts to terminate or resolve a Force Majeure Condition, and such Party shall make periodic reports to the other Party on the status of the Force Majeure Condition and the anticipated date for its resolution or termination. 29
(iv) Neither a Force Majeure Event nor a Force Majeure Condition shall suspend either Party's obligation to make payments already accrued. 12. Pricing and Payments -------------------- For each calendar month, IP will pay the following amounts: (a) Tier 1 Capacity Charges and Tier 1 Energy Charges ------------------------------------------------- (i) Tier 1 Capacity Charges. IP shall pay DYPM a charge for Capacity for each calendar month equal to: (A) 2,800 MW (as adjusted for any Released Capacity as provided in Section 5(a)(ii), multiplied by (B) the Tier 1 Capacity Price, multiplied by (C) a conversion factor of 1,000 kW per MW. (ii) Tier 1 Energy Charges. IP shall pay DYPM a charge for Tier 1 Energy for each calendar month equal to the sum, for each hour of such calendar month, of product of: (A) the Tier 1 Energy Price, multiplied by (B) the Scheduled Energy for such hour. (b) Negotiated Tier 2 Capacity Charges and Negotiated Tier 2 Energy --------------------------------------------------------------- Charges ------- IP shall pay DYPM for any Negotiated Tier 2 Capacity and/or Negotiated Tier 2 Energy purchased by IP in a calendar month at the prices set forth in the Negotiated Tier 2 Memorandum applicable to such transaction or transactions. (c) Supplemental Energy Charges --------------------------- (i) For each hour in which an LMP Market exists, IP shall purchase Supplemental Energy from MISO at the IP Zonal Price. If the IP Zonal Price for such Supplemental Energy for such hour exceeds the Tier 1 Energy Price, DYPM shall pay IP an amount equal to the product of: (w) such excess in price and (x) the amount of such Supplemental Energy for such hour. If the Tier 1 Energy Price exceeds the IP Zonal Price for such Supplemental Energy for such hour, IP shall pay DYPM an amount equal to the product of: (y) such excess in price and (z) the amount of such Supplemental Energy for such hour. (ii) For each hour in which no LMP Market exists, IP shall purchase Supplemental Energy from DYPM at the Tier 1 Energy Price. 30
(d) Underscheduled Energy Charges and Surcharges -------------------------------------------- (i) For each hour in which an LMP Market exists, IP shall purchase Underscheduled Energy from the MISO at the IP Zonal Price, and IP shall pay DYPM a surcharge for Underscheduled Energy equal to: (y) the amount of Underscheduled Energy, multiplied by (z) the positive difference, if any, of the Tier 1 Energy Price less the IP Zonal Price for such hour. (ii) For each hour in which no LMP Market exists, IP shall purchase Underscheduled Energy from DYPM, at the following prices: (A) for On-Peak Hours, the price for Underscheduled Energy shall be the Surcharge Factor multiplied by the Shaped Daily OnPeak Index applicable to such hour; and (B) for Off-Peak Hours, the price for Underscheduled Energy shall be the Tier 1 Energy Price. (e) Overscheduling Surcharge ------------------------ (i) For each hour in which an LMP Market exists, IP shall pay DYPM a surcharge for Overscheduled Energy equal to: (y) the amount of Overscheduled Energy, multiplied by (z) the positive difference, if any, of the IP Zonal Price for such hour less the Tier 1 Energy Price. (ii) For each On-Peak hour in which no LMP Market exists, IP shall pay DYPM a surcharge for Overscheduled Energy equal to: (A) the amount of Overscheduled Energy multiplied by (B) the positive difference, if any, equal to (y) the Surcharge Factor multiplied by the Shaped Daily On-Peak Index applicable to such hour, minus (z) the Tier 1 Energy Price. There shall be no surcharge paid by IP to DYPM for Overscheduled Energy during Off-Peak hours in which no LMP Market exists, other than any charge paid by IP to DYPM for Scheduled Energy owing to the fact that all Overscheduled Energy is also Scheduled Energy. (f) Reliability Compensation ------------------------ In the event no LMP Market exists, for each event of Reliability Dispatch requested by IP, MAIN, or MISO requiring incremental or decremental Energy or Ancillary Services production from a given Primary Resource, IP shall reimburse DYPM for the following costs associated with such Reliability Dispatch. (i) If such Reliability Dispatch requires incremental Energy production from a Primary Resource, IP shall reimburse DYPM in the amount of 110% of DYPM's actual startup, variable operations and maintenance, and fuel costs associated with the startup or incremental Energy production from such Primary Resource. (ii) If such Reliability Dispatch requires decremental Energy production from a Primary Resource and an equal amount of incremental Energy production from another Primary Resource, IP shall reimburse DYPM in the amount of any increased costs of Energy production as a result of such changes in Energy production levels on account of such Reliability Dispatch. (iii) If such Reliability Dispatch requires decremental Energy production from a Primary Resource and DYPM is unable or not permitted to increment Energy production of another Primary Resource, IP shall reimburse DYPM in the amount of the margin foregone (revenues minus incremental production costs) by DYPM for existing Energy schedules with one or more third-parties as a result of such Reliability Dispatch. (g) Unmetered Energy ---------------- IP shall compensate DYPM for Unmetered Energy based on the estimated annual amounts in MWh provided on Appendix 6 and a price of $30/MWh. Unmetered Energy is not subject to the scheduling provisions of Section nor shall Unmetered Energy be considered Tier 1 Energy. (h) Sample Calculation ------------------ A sample calculation of charges for Tier 1 Energy, Overscheduled Energy, Supplemental Energy, and Underscheduled Energy is attached as Appendix 5. In the event of any conflict between Appendix 5 and the terms of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall govern. 31
13. Events of Default, Liability and Remedies ----------------------------------------- (a) Defaults -------- Subject to Sections 11, 13(c), and 13(f), and any other applicable provision of this Agreement, any of the following shall constitute an "Event of Default": (i) Either Party's failure to discharge or perform any material duty or obligation under this Agreement other than those instances set forth in clauses (ii) through (vi) of this Section 13(a), which failure is not cured within 20 days after receipt of notice from the nondefaulting Party describing such Event of Default; (ii) Either Party's failure to pay any undisputed amount due and payable under this Agreement, which failure is not cured through payment of such undisputed amount within two (2) Business Days after receipt of notice from the non-defaulting Party describing such Event of Default and demanding payment; (iii) Failure of DYPM to provide Capacity, Energy, or Ancillary Services in accordance with this Agreement resulting in the obligation of DYPM to pay IP at least twenty-five million dollars ($25,000,000) pursuant to Section 7(g)(ii) over any consecutive three (3) months during the Term; (iv) Either Party or its Guarantor becomes Bankrupt; (v) Either Party fails to provide and maintain the Security Guaranty required hereunder within two (2) Business Days after receipt of notice from the non-defaulting Party describing such Event of Default and demanding such Security Guarantee; and (vi) Either Party's corporate status is dissolved and not reinstated within thirty (30) days after such dissolution or, if such dissolution was inadvertent, within thirty (30) days after discovery of such dissolution. (b) Indemnification --------------- Subject to Sections 11, 13(c), and 13(f), and any other applicable provision of this Agreement: (i) DYPM shall not be liable for, and IP shall indemnify DYPM from and against, any and all claims, damages, liabilities or expenses, whether suffered or incurred by DYPM or by some other person or entity, resulting from or caused by IP's gross negligence or willful misconduct; (ii) IP shall not be liable for, and DYPM shall indemnify IP from and against, any and all claims, damages, liabilities or expenses, whether suffered or incurred by IP or by some other person or entity, resulting from or caused by the gross negligence or willful misconduct of DYPM; and (iii) if IP and DYPM are held jointly and severally liable for any claim, damage, liability or expense of any third party, a right of contribution shall exist as between IP and DYPM. (c) No Consequential or Punitive Damages ------------------------------------ Notwithstanding any other provision in this Agreement to the contrary, in no event or any circumstances shall either Party be liable to the other for any special, incidental, indirect, consequential (including loss of profit, loss of use, claim of liability on account of any business interruption of the injured Party, or claims of customers), punitive or exemplary damages, whether such claim, damage, 32
liability, expense or loss is based on contract, warranty or tort (including intentional acts, errors or omissions, negligence, indemnity, strict liability or otherwise). (d) Warranty Disclaimer ------------------- EXCEPT AS SET FORTH IN SECTION 6, DYPM MAKES NO WARRANTIES (EXPRESS OR IMPLIED) WITH REGARD TO THE ENERGY, CAPACITY OR ANCILLARY SERVICES SOLD OR PROVIDED PURSUANT TO THIS AGREEMENT, INCLUDING ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. (e) Remedies -------- (i) If an Event of Default has occurred, the non-defaulting Party, at its discretion, may take either of the following actions: (A) In the case of clauses (ii), (iii), (iv) or (v) of Section 13(a), immediately terminate this Agreement; (B) In the case of clauses (i) or (vi) of Section 13(a), proceed pursuant to the dispute resolution procedures set forth in Section 14; (ii) The rights and remedies herein provided in case of an Event of Default or other breach shall be exclusive and in lieu of all other rights and remedies existing at law or in equity. (f) Exclusive Remedy ---------------- NOTWITHSTANDING ANYTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT TO THE CONTRARY AND TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, THE REMEDIES SET FORTH IN SECTIONS 7(g) SHALL BE IP'S EXCLUSIVE REMEDIES AND DYPM'S EXCLUSIVE LIABILITY FOR ANY FAILURE OF DYPM TO PROVIDE CAPACITY, ENERGY OR ANCILLARY SERVICES REQUIRED BY THIS AGREEMENT. 14. Dispute Resolution ------------------ (a) Administrative Committee Procedure ---------------------------------- If any dispute or disagreement arises out of or relates to matters concerning this Agreement or the breach, termination or validity thereof ("Dispute"), and, if applicable, a Party has not elected a remedy provided for in Sections 7(g) or 13(e), at the written request of either Party, the Dispute shall be referred to an officer of each Party, who shall attempt to timely resolve the disagreement. If such representatives can resolve the disagreement, such resolution shall be reported in writing to and shall be binding upon the Parties. If such representatives cannot resolve the disagreement within thirty (30) days after the date of a notice requesting such referral, or if a Party fails to appoint a representative within ten (10) days after the date of a notice requesting such referral, then, at the election of either Party, the matter shall proceed to arbitration as provided in Section 14(b). (b) Arbitration ----------- If the Parties are unable, pursuant to Section 14(a), to resolve a Dispute arising on a matter pertaining to this Agreement, such Dispute shall be settled by arbitration and any award issued pursuant to such arbitration may be enforced in any court of competent jurisdiction. Either Party may commence 33
arbitration by serving written notice thereof on the other Party, which notice shall designate the issue(s) to be arbitrated, the specific provisions of this Agreement under which such issues arose and such Party's proposed resolution of such issue(s). Representatives from IP and DYPM shall meet for the purpose of jointly selecting an arbitrator within ten (10) days after the effective date of such notice. If no arbitrator has been selected within twenty (20) days of the date of such notice, then an arbitrator shall be selected in accordance with the procedures of the American Arbitration Association. Whether selected by the Parties or in accordance with the procedures of the American Arbitration Association, the arbitrator shall have qualifications and experience in an occupation, profession or discipline relevant to the subject matter of the Dispute. Any such arbitration shall be conducted in accordance with the commercial arbitration rules of the American Arbitration Association in effect on the date of such notice other than as specifically modified herein. The arbitrator shall be bound by the provisions of this Agreement, where applicable, and shall have no authority to modify such provisions in any manner. The arbitrator shall render a decision resolving the Dispute in a manner which is equitable under the facts and circumstances and in light of the applicable provisions of this Agreement, and which may include a monetary award to a Party or a directive that a Party take certain actions or refrain from certain actions, but shall have no authority to fashion any other type or form of relief; provided, that nothing in this Section 14(b) shall preclude the arbitrator from rendering a decision which adopts the resolution of an issue proposed by one of the Parties. The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding upon both Parties, and a Party may have any court having jurisdiction over the Parties enter judgment in accordance with the arbitrator's award. (c) Obligations to Pay Charges and Perform Other Obligations -------------------------------------------------------- Except as to such matters with respect to which a Party has elected the remedy provided by Sections 13(e) or 7(g), if a Dispute should arise on any matter which is not resolved as provided in Section 14(a), then, pending resolution of the Dispute by arbitration pursuant to Section 14(b), DYPM shall continue to operate the Primary Resources and otherwise perform its obligations hereunder in a manner consistent with the applicable provisions of this Agreement, and IP shall continue to pay all charges required and perform all other obligations in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Agreement. 15. Security Guarantee ------------------ (a) By DYPM in Favor of IP ---------------------- DYPM shall post a Security Guarantee with and in favor of IP in the aggregate amount of $5,000,000 to ensure the timely performance of DYPM's obligations to deliver Capacity and Energy to IP in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, including any obligation of DYPM arising under this Agreement to pay money to IP. Such Security Guarantee shall, at DYPM's option, consist of one of the following: (i) an irrevocable letter of guaranty issued by DYPM's Guarantor, in the form of Appendix 4, (ii) a Letter of Credit, or (iii) cash or an irrevocable guaranty or bond issued by a bank, insurance company, other financial institution or other Guarantor of acceptable creditworthiness to IP, in each case in favor of IP; provided, that in the event of a Downgrade Event with respect to DYPM's Guarantor, if any (or until such Guarantor shall be Investment Grade), DYPM shall, within 15 days following the date of such Downgrade Event, post the full amount of the Security Guarantee in accordance with clauses (a)(ii) or (a)(iii) of this Section 15 and shall maintain the full amount of the Security Guarantee in accordance with clauses (a)(ii) or (a)(iii) of this Section 15 for the duration of such Downgrade Event. (b) By IP in Favor of DYPM ---------------------- IP shall post a Security Guarantee with and in favor of DYPM in the aggregate amount of $25,000,000 to ensure the timely performance of IP's obligations to DYPM in accordance with the terms 34
of this Agreement, including any obligation of IP arising under this Agreement to pay money to DYPM. Such Security Guarantee shall, at IP's option, consist of one of the following: (i) an irrevocable letter of guaranty issued by IP's Guarantor, in the form of Appendix 4, (ii) a Letter of Credit, or (iii) cash or an irrevocable guaranty or bond issued by a bank, insurance company, other financial institution or other Guarantor, of acceptable creditworthiness to DYPM, in each case in favor of DYPM; provided, that in the event of a Downgrade Event with respect to IP's Guarantor, if any, IP shall, within 15 days following the date of such Downgrade Event, post the full amount of the Security Guarantee solely in accordance with option (ii) or (iii) and shall maintain the full amount of the Security Guarantee solely in accordance with option (ii) or (iii) for the duration of such Downgrade Event. (c) Costs of Security Guarantee --------------------------- Costs of a Security Guarantee shall be borne by the applicant for such Security Guarantee. 16. Sale, Assignment, Mortgage or Pledge ------------------------------------ (a) Sale or Assignment or Rights and Obligations -------------------------------------------- Neither Party may assign its rights or obligations under this Agreement to a third party without the express written consent of the other Party, which may not be unreasonably withheld. (b) Consent to Mortgage or Pledge ----------------------------- Notwithstanding any limitations on sale, lease, transfer or assignment imposed by Section 16(a), IP hereby consents to the mortgage, pledge or refinancing of any Primary Resource or Primary Resources, or of this Agreement, by DYPM or DMG including the creation of a security interest in any Primary Resource or Primary Resources or in this Agreement in, favor of any Lenders. IP further agrees to execute documentation to evidence such consent; provided that IP shall have no obligation to waive any of its rights under this Agreement. IP further acknowledges that any such mortgage, pledge, refinancing or creation of security interest may require the recognition of certain rights of Lenders in the underlying documents, including: (i) that this Agreement shall not be amended or terminated (except for termination permitted pursuant to the terms of this Agreement) without the consent of the Lenders; (ii) that, without extending any cure period set forth in this Agreement, Lenders shall be given notice of, and the same opportunity to cure, any breach or default of this Agreement by DYPM; (iii) that, if a Lender forecloses, takes a deed in lieu thereof or otherwise exercises its remedies pursuant to any security documents, then IP shall, at such Lender's request, continue to perform all of its obligations hereunder, and Lender or its nominee may perform in the place of DYPM, and may assign this Agreement to another party in place of DYPM (provided either (A) such proposed assignee is creditworthy (or posts a Security Guarantee as contemplated hereunder) and possesses or acquires through an operator experience and skill in the operation of electric generation plants similar in nature to the Primary Resources, or (B) IP consents to the assignment to such proposed assignee, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, it being understood that IP may, in deciding whether to grant such consent, take into account the creditworthiness and the electric generation plant experience and skill of the proposed assignee or its Guarantor), and enforce all of DYPM's rights and obligations under this Agreement; 35
(iv) that neither Lender(s) nor its nominee shall have liability under this Agreement except to the extent any such Lender or its nominee elects to perform DYPM's obligations as contemplated by paragraph (iii) above; (v) that IP shall accept performance in accordance with this Agreement by Lender(s) or its (their) nominees; (vi) that IP shall make all payments to an account designated by Lender(s); and (vii) that IP shall make such representations and warranties to Lender(s) as Lender(s) may reasonably request with regard to: (A) IP's corporate existence, (B) IP's corporate authority to execute, deliver and perform this Agreement, (C) the binding nature of this Agreement on IP, (D) receipt of regulatory approvals by IP with respect to its performance under this Agreement, and (E) whether any defaults by DYPM are known by IP to then exist under this Agreement. 17. Governing Law ------------- This Agreement shall be deemed to be an Illinois contract and shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Illinois without regard to its conflict of laws provisions. 18. Notices ------- Unless otherwise provided in this Agreement, any notice, consent or other communication required to be made under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be delivered to the address set forth below or such other address as the receiving Party may from time to time designate by written notice: If to IP, to: Illinois Power Company 500 South 27th Street Decatur, Illinois 62525 Attention: President If to DYPM, to: Dynegy Power Marketing, Inc. 1000 Louisiana Street, Suite 5800 Houston, Texas 77002 Attention: Senior Vice President All notices shall be effective when received. 19. Confidentiality --------------- Each Party agrees that it will treat in confidence this Agreement and all documents, materials and other information which it shall have obtained regarding the other Party during the course of the negotiations leading to, and its performance of, this Agreement (whether obtained before or after the Effective Date), each Party shall return to the other Party all copies of any nonpublic documents and materials which may have been furnished in connection herewith. This Agreement and such documents, 36
materials and information shall not be communicated to any third party (other than a Party's counsel, accountants, financial advisors, corporate parents, affiliates, officers, directors or employees thereof, or in connection with the sale or assignment or financing or refinancing of such Party or its affiliates or a Primary Resource or Primary Resources or this Agreement if DYPM or IP (as the case may be) has given prior notice to the other Party and entered into a confidentiality agreement satisfactory to the other Party with the proposed recipient of the information). The obligation of each Party to treat such documents, materials and other information in confidence shall not apply to any information which: (i) is or becomes available to such Party from a source other than the other Party, (ii) is or becomes available to the public other than as a result of disclosure by such Party or its agents, (iii) is required to be disclosed under applicable law or judicial process, but only to the extent it must be disclosed, or (iv) such Party reasonably deems necessary to disclose to obtain any of the consents or approvals contemplated hereby. 20. Miscellaneous Provisions ------------------------ (a) Non-Waiver ---------- The failure of either Party to insist in any one or more instances upon strict performance of any provisions of this Agreement, or to take advantage of any of its rights hereunder, shall not be construed as a waiver of any such provisions or the relinquishment of any such right or any other right hereunder, which shall remain in full force and effect. (b) Third Party Beneficiaries ------------------------- This Agreement is intended solely for the benefit of the Parties hereto. Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to create any duty to, or standard or care with reference to, or any liability to, any person or entity not a Party to this Agreement. (c) No Association, Partnership or Joint Venture -------------------------------------------- This Agreement shall not be interpreted or construed to create an association, joint venture or partnership between the Parties or to impose any partnership obligation or liability upon either Party. DYPM is an independent contractor and neither Party shall have any right, power or authority to enter into any agreement or undertaking for, or to act on behalf of, or to act as or be an agent or representative of, or otherwise bind, the other Party, unless, and only to the extent that, such right, power and authority is expressly provided for in this Agreement. (d) Survival of Obligations ----------------------- Cancellation, expiration or earlier termination of this Agreement shall not relieve the Parties of obligations that by their nature should survive such cancellation, expiration or termination, including exclusion of warranties and remedies, exclusions of consequential damages, limitations on liability, audits, promises of indemnity, and confidentiality. (e) Successors and Assignees ------------------------ This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the successors and permitted assignees of the Parties. 37
21. Amendments ---------- No amendments or changes to this Agreement shall be binding unless made in writing and duly executed by both Parties. 22. Entire Agreement ---------------- This Agreement supersedes all previous representations, understandings, negotiations and agreements either written or oral between the Parties hereto or their representatives with respect to the subject matter hereof and constitutes the entire agreement of the Parties with respect to the subject matter hereof. 23. FERC Standard of Review ----------------------- Absent the agreement of the Parties to the proposed change, the standard of review for changes to this Agreement specifying the rate(s) or other material economic terms and conditions agreed to by the Parties herein, whether proposed by a Party, a non-party or FERC acting sua sponte, shall be the "public interest" standard of review set forth in United Gas Pipe Line Co. v. Mobile Gas Service Corp., 350 U.S. 332 (1956), and Federal Power Commission v. Sierra Pacific Power Co., 350 U.S. 348 (1956) (the "Mobile-Sierra" doctrine). 24. Severability ------------ The Parties agree that in the event that any portion of this Agreement is determined to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable for any reason, the remaining portions of this Agreement shall be unaffected and unimpaired thereby, and shall remain in full force and effect, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, and the Parties shall negotiate in good faith to amend this Agreement to affect the intent of the Parties in entering into this Agreement. IN WITNESS WHEREOF the Parties hereto, by their duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be executed on the date first written above. ILLINOIS POWER COMPANY DYNEGY POWER MARKETING, INC. By: /s/ Warner L. Baxter By: /s/ Alec G. Dreyer --------------------------------- ------------------------------- Name: Warner L. Baxter Name: Alec G. Dreyer Title: Executive Vice President and Title: President Chief Financial Officer 38
LIST OF APPENDICES Appendix 1: Monthly Tier 1 Capacities Appendix 2: Maximum Energy Quantities Appendix 3: Design Limits of Primary Resources Appendix 4: Form of Guaranty Appendix 5: Sample Calculation of Charges Appendix 6: Unmetered Energy Amounts 39
Appendix 1 Monthly Tier 1 Capacities 2005 and 2006 Monthly Tier 1 Capacity Volumes (in megawatts) ------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------- --------------- January 2,300 ----------------------- --------------- February 2,300 ----------------------- --------------- March 2,300 ----------------------- --------------- April 2,300 ----------------------- --------------- May 2,800 ----------------------- --------------- June 2,800 ----------------------- --------------- July 2,800 ----------------------- --------------- August 2,800 ----------------------- --------------- September 2,800 ----------------------- --------------- October 2,300 ----------------------- --------------- November 2,300 ----------------------- --------------- December 2,300 ----------------------- --------------- 40
Appendix 2 Maximum Energy Quantities 2005 and 2006 Maximum Quarterly Energy Quantities (in MWh per Quarter) ---------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------- ------------------- Q1 2,600,000 ---------- ------------------- Q2 2,600,000 ---------- ------------------- Q3 3,450,000 ---------- ------------------- Q4 2,850,000 ---------- ------------------- Total = 11,500,000 megawatt hours per year 2005 and 2006 Maximum Hourly Energy Quantities (in MWh per hour) ---------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------ January 2,300 ------------------------------------ February 2,300 ------------------------------------ March 2,300 ------------------------------------ April 2,300 ------------------------------------ May 2,800 ------------------------------------ June 2,800 ------------------------------------ July 2,800 ------------------------------------ August 2,800 ------------------------------------ September 2,800 ------------------------------------ October 2,300 ------------------------------------ November 2,300 ------------------------------------ December 2,300 ------------------------------------ 41
42
Appendix 4 Form of Guaranty This Guaranty Agreement (the "Guaranty") is made on this ____ day of _____________, 2004 by ______________, a _____________corporation ("Guarantor") in favor of ______________________________ ("Beneficiary"), a ________________ corporation in consideration of the Beneficiary extending credit to _____________ ("Debtor"). WHEREAS, Beneficiary and Debtor have entered into or are anticipating entering into a Power Purchase Agreement (the "Agreement"); WHEREAS, Debtor is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Guarantor. WHEREAS, as a condition of such Agreement, Beneficiary is requiring Guarantor to enter into this Guaranty; and WHEREAS, as part of the Agreement, the Beneficiary will be extending credit to the Debtor, and Guarantor wishes to provide this Guaranty to the Beneficiary as part of Debtor's consideration for such Transactions and to induce the Beneficiary to extend credit to the Debtor. NOW THEREFORE, in order to satisfy the aforementioned condition of the Agreement, and further, in order for Guarantor to obtain benefits resulting from Beneficiaries performance pursuant to the Agreement, Guarantor desires to enter into this Guaranty and hereby agrees as follows: 1. Guaranty. Guarantor hereby unconditionally and irrevocably guarantees to the Beneficiary, subject to the terms and conditions contained herein, the prompt payment when due of all sums hereafter owed by Debtor to Beneficiary under the terms of the Agreement (such obligations are herein referred to as the "Agreement Obligations"); provided, however, that the Guarantor's maximum financial obligation under this instrument is limited to $_________________________. The Agreement Obligations are deemed to include, without limitation, interest and any other charges due and payable, such as late fees, service charges, cover costs or liquidated damages. 2. Amendments. No amendment of this Guaranty shall be effective unless ---------- signed by Guarantor and Beneficiary. No waiver by Beneficiary of any provision of this Guaranty nor consent to any departure by Guarantor therefrom shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be in writing and signed by Beneficiary, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which given. 3. Addresses for Notices. All notices and other communications provided for --------------------- hereunder shall, unless otherwise specifically provided elsewhere herein, (i) be in writing and shall be addressed to the parties at their respective addresses set forth below or at such other addresses as shall be designated in a written notice to the other party, and (ii) when mailed, be effective five (5) business days after being deposited in the U.S. mail, registered or certified, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, or, in the case of personal delivery, when delivered at the following addresses: if to the Guarantor: [insert notice address] if to Debtor: [insert notice address] if to Beneficiary: [insert notice address] 43
4. Non-waiver of Claim or Defense Under the Agreement. Nothing contained -------------------------------------------------- herein shall constitute a waiver, discharge or release of any claim or defense, whether it or they be at law, equity or otherwise, that the Guarantor or Debtor has, or at any other time hereafter, will have against Beneficiary with respect to, or relating in any way, to (i) Beneficiary's performance under the Agreement or (ii) Guarantor's or Debtor's obligation to pay the Agreement. In the event and for the duration that Guarantor assumes the Agreement Obligations, Guarantor shall be entitled to and enjoy all the rights, defenses and benefits to which Debtor is entitled or may become entitled under the Agreement, other than defenses expressly waived by the Debtor in the Agreement or otherwise waived in this Guaranty. Further, this Guaranty shall be absolute and unconditional irrespective of any lack of validity or enforceability of or defect or deficiency in the Agreement or any other documents executed in connection with the Agreement. 5. Limitations. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Guaranty, ----------- Guarantor shall not be liable for consequential, incidental, exemplary, equitable, loss of profits, punitive, or tort damages. This Guaranty shall constitute a guarantee of payment and not of collection. Guarantor's obligations and liability under this Guaranty shall be limited to payment obligations, and Guarantor shall have no obligation to buy, sell, deliver, supply or transport gas, electricity or any other commodity under the Agreement. 6. Payment. Guarantor agrees to be held responsible for the Agreement ------- Obligations, and agrees to pay the Agreement Obligations upon the failure by the Debtor to make any payments that are due and payable at any time. 7. Subrogation. Guarantor shall be subrogated to all rights of Beneficiary ----------- against Debtor upon payment or satisfaction of all Agreement Obligations owing to Beneficiary. 8. Effect of Certain Events. Guarantor agrees that Guarantor's liability ------------------------ hereunder will not be released, reduced or impaired by the occurrence of any one or more of the following events: a. the insolvency, bankruptcy, reorganization, release, receivership or discharge of Debtor; or b. the renewal, consolidation, extension, modification or amendment from time to time of the Agreement. 9. Waiver. Guarantor hereby waives notice of acceptance of this Guaranty, ------ creation or change of the amount of the Agreement Obligations, dishonor, nonpayment, protest and presentment. 10. Term. This Guaranty shall remain in full force and effect until ---- ______________, or the Guarantor may, by providing ten (10) days prior written notice to Beneficiary, earlier terminate this Guaranty; provided that this Guaranty shall remain in full force and effect after either such expiration or termination with respect to all Agreement Obligations incurred prior thereto, until such Agreement Obligations have been fully satisfied, performed and discharged. 11. Successors and Assigns. This Guaranty shall inure to the benefit of ----------------------- Beneficiary, its successors assigns and creditors. The Beneficiary shall have the right to assign this Guaranty to any person or entity without the prior consent of the Guarantor; provided, however, that no such assignment shall be binding upon the Guarantor until it receives written notice of such assignment from the Beneficiary. The Guarantor may assign its obligations under this Guaranty only with the prior written consent of Beneficiary, which shall not be unreasonably withheld. Any reasonable uncertainty on the part of the Beneficiary concerning the ability on the part of any potential assignee of the Guarantor to carry out the 44
Guarantor's obligations hereunder shall be considered a reasonable basis for withholding consent, unless and until the potential assignee can reasonably satisfy the Beneficiary that the assignee is capable of performing the obligations of the Guarantor hereunder. 12. Governing Law and Jurisdiction. THE VALIDITY, CONSTRUCTION, ---------------------------------- INTERPRETATION AND EFFECT OF THIS GUARANTY SHALL BE GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK UNLESS OTHERWISE PROVIDED HEREIN. 13. Headings. The headings used herein are for purposes of convenience only -------- and shall not be used in construing the provisions hereof. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Guarantor has caused this Guaranty to be duly executed and delivered by its duly authorized officer effective as of this ____ day of ________________, 2004. GUARANTOR [insert Guarantor's legal name] By: ---------------------------------------- Title: ------------------------------------- 45
Appendix 5 Sample Calculation of Charges [See Attached] 46
SAMPLE - In the event of any conflict between this Appendix 5 and the terms of this Power Purchase Agreement, the terms of this Power Purchase Agreement shall govern 47
SAMPLE - In the event of any conflict between this Appendix 5 and the terms of this Power Purchase Agreement, the terms of this Power Purchase Agreement shall govern 48
SAMPLE - In the event of any conflict between this Appendix 5 and the terms of this Power Purchase Agreement, the terms of this Power Purchase Agreement shall govern 50
Cinergy On Peak PJM Daily on peak Index average 7/1/2003 37.720 38.055 0.991 3 7/2/2003 35.240 48.407 0.728 4 7/3/2003 45.240 43.812 1.033 5 7/4/2003 n.a. 37.914 6 7/5/2003 n.a. 50.335 7 7/6/2003 n.a. 63.126 1 7/7/2003 49.360 70.151 0.704 2 7/8/2003 53.400 63.872 0.836 3 7/9/2003 46.250 51.722 0.894 4 7/10/2003 35.450 38.181 0.928 5 7/11/2003 28.300 64.463 0.439 6 7/12/2003 n.a. 62.323 7 7/13/2003 47.320 52.578 1 7/14/2003 38.360 47.950 2 7/15/2003 40.578 50.722 3 7/16/2003 38.979 48.724 4 7/17/2003 33.492 41.866 5 7/18/2003 27.442 34.303 6 7/19/2003 25.071 31.339 7 7/20/2003 43.964 54.955 1 7/21/2003 59.011 73.763 2 7/22/2003 48.983 61.229 3 7/23/2003 40.638 50.798 4 7/24/2003 45.168 56.460 5 51
7/25/2003 39.034 48.792 6 7/26/2003 33.181 41.476 7 7/27/2003 34.837 43.547 1 7/28/2003 32.318 40.397 2 7/29/2003 37.244 46.555 3 7/30/2003 36.876 46.095 4 7/31/2003 42.630 53.288 5 52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
SAMPLE - In the event of any conflict between this Appendix 5 and the terms of this Power Purchase Agreement, the terms of this Power Purchase Agreement shall govern 67
7/14/2005 7/15/2005 1 1,742 2,065 2 1,661 1,980 3 1,600 1,898 4 1,560 1,883 5 1,557 1,867 6 1,592 1,970 7 1,683 2,056 8 1,898 2,256 9 2,108 2,397 10 2,216 2,532 11 2,410 2,682 12 2,523 2,772 13 2,637 2,884 14 2,752 2,971 15 2,817 2,977 16 2,864 3,027 17 2,831 3,074 18 2,937 3,056 19 2,813 2,994 20 2,699 2,855 21 2,650 2,769 22 2,626 2,718 23 2,421 2,437 24 2,211 2,193 7/28/2005 7/29/2005 7/30/2005 7/31/2005 1 2,094 1,824 1,854 1,960 2 1,985 1,742 1,768 1,854 3 1,912 1,680 1,700 1,762 4 1,876 1,643 1,655 1,729 5 1,854 1,655 1,642 1,725 6 1,914 1,728 1,706 1,778 7 1,986 1,762 1,730 1,829 8 2,116 1,918 1,903 1,996 9 2,224 2,062 2,078 2,193 10 2,289 2,200 2,234 2,390 11 2,358 2,345 2,379 2,537 12 2,399 2,470 2,476 2,724 13 2,450 2,510 2,538 2,782 14 2,511 2,579 2,659 2,853 15 2,510 2,605 2,706 2,897 68
16 2,939 3,111 2,403 2,468 2,830 2,991 2,461 2,418 2,471 2,650 2,644 2,778 17 2,974 3,196 2,407 2,539 2,882 2,999 2,446 2,455 2,490 2,659 2,700 2,805 18 2,974 3,209 2,370 2,583 2,882 2,941 2,393 2,434 2,467 2,648 2,676 2,802 19 2,909 3,129 2,302 2,533 2,854 2,809 2,321 2,388 2,446 2,546 2,600 2,752 20 2,743 3,026 2,233 2,451 2,761 2,634 2,233 2,276 2,348 2,423 2,504 2,695 21 2,722 2,931 2,257 2,404 2,759 2,581 2,226 2,247 2,332 2,395 2,492 2,709 22 2,646 2,932 2,257 2,376 2,735 2,504 2,207 2,231 2,311 2,365 2,439 2,633 23 2,449 2,682 2,111 2,190 2,550 2,305 2,053 2,075 2,132 2,179 2,272 2,440 24 2,214 2,417 1,916 1,997 2,372 2,065 1,859 1,872 1,930 2,004 2,085 2,238
16 2,509 2,634 2,754 2,984 17 2,530 2,669 2,764 3,036 18 2,542 2,674 2,771 3,012 19 2,473 2,630 2,707 2,937 20 2,388 2,513 2,599 2,811 21 2,367 2,475 2,563 2,777 22 2,342 2,392 2,508 2,699 23 2,177 2,208 2,316 2,501 24 1,971 1,991 2,090 2,263 SAMPLE - In the event of any conflict between this Appendix 5 and the terms of this Power Purchase Agreement, the terms of this Power Purchase Agreement shall govern 69
7/14/2005 7/15/2005 1 600 600 2 600 600 3 600 600 4 600 600 5 600 600 6 600 600 7 900 900 8 900 900 9 900 900 10 900 900 11 900 900 12 900 900 13 900 900 14 900 900 15 900 900 16 900 900 17 900 900 18 900 900 19 900 900 20 900 900 21 900 900 22 900 900 23 600 600 24 600 600 7/28/2005 7/29/2005 7/30/2005 7/31/2005 1 600 600 600 600 2 600 600 600 600 3 600 600 600 600 4 600 600 600 600 5 600 600 600 600 6 600 600 600 600 7 900 900 900 900 8 900 900 900 900 9 900 900 900 900 10 900 900 900 900 11 900 900 900 900 12 900 900 900 900 13 900 900 900 900 14 900 900 900 900 70
15 900 900 900 600 600 900 900 900 900 900 600 600 900 900 900 900 16 900 900 900 600 600 900 900 900 900 900 600 600 900 900 900 900 17 900 900 900 600 600 900 900 900 900 900 600 600 900 900 900 900 18 900 900 900 600 600 900 900 900 900 900 600 600 900 900 900 900 19 900 900 900 600 600 900 900 900 900 900 600 600 900 900 900 900 20 900 900 900 600 600 900 900 900 900 900 600 600 900 900 900 900 21 900 900 900 600 600 900 900 900 900 900 600 600 900 900 900 900 22 900 900 900 600 600 900 900 900 900 900 600 600 900 900 900 900 23 600 600 600 600 600 600 600 600 600 600 600 600 600 600 600 600 24 600 600 600 600 600 600 600 600 600 600 600 600 600 600 600 600
SAMPLE - In the event of any conflict between this Appendix 5 and the terms of this Power Purchase Agreement, the terms of this Power Purchase Agreement shall govern 71
7/14/2005 7/15/2005 1 1,142 1,465 2 1,061 1,380 3 1,000 1,298 4 960 1,283 5 957 1,267 6 992 1,370 7 783 1,156 8 998 1,356 9 1,208 1,497 10 1,316 1,632 11 1,510 1,782 12 1,623 1,872 13 1,737 1,984 14 1,852 2,071 15 1,917 2,077 16 1,964 2,127 17 1,931 2,174 18 2,037 2,156 19 1,913 2,094 20 1,799 1,955 21 1,750 1,869 22 1,726 1,818 23 1,821 1,837 24 1,611 1,593 7/28/2005 7/29/2005 7/30/2005 7/31/2005 1 1,494 1,224 1,254 1,360 2 1,385 1,142 1,168 1,254 3 1,312 1,080 1,100 1,162 4 1,276 1,043 1,055 1,129 5 1,254 1,055 1,042 1,125 6 1,314 1,128 1,106 1,178 7 1,086 862 830 929 8 1,216 1,018 1,003 1,096 9 1,324 1,162 1,178 1,293 10 1,389 1,300 1,334 1,490 11 1,458 1,445 1,479 1,637 12 1,499 1,570 1,576 1,824 13 1,550 1,610 1,638 1,882 14 1,611 1,679 1,759 1,953 72
15 1,610 1,705 1,806 1,997 16 1,609 1,734 1,854 2,084 17 1,630 1,769 1,864 2,136 18 1,642 1,774 1,871 2,112 19 1,573 1,730 1,807 2,037 20 1,488 1,613 1,699 1,911 21 1,467 1,575 1,663 1,877 22 1,442 1,492 1,608 1,799 23 1,577 1,608 1,716 1,901 24 1,371 1,391 1,490 1,663 SAMPLE - In the event of any conflict between this Appendix 5 and the terms of this Power Purchase Agreement, the terms of this Power Purchase Agreement shall govern 73
7/14/2005 7/15/2005 1 1,142 1,300 2 1,061 1,100 3 1,000 1,000 4 960 1,000 5 957 1,000 6 992 1,000 7 700 700 8 700 700 9 1,200 1,200 10 1,300 1,300 11 1,500 1,500 12 1,600 1,600 13 1,737 1,800 14 1,852 1,900 15 1,900 1,900 16 1,900 1,900 17 1,900 1,900 18 1,900 1,900 19 1,900 1,900 20 1,799 1,900 21 1,700 1,700 22 1,600 1,600 23 1,800 1,800 24 1,600 1,593 7/28/2005 7/29/2005 7/30/2005 7/31/2005 1 1,300 1,224 1,200 1,200 2 1,100 1,100 1,100 1,100 3 1,000 1,000 1,100 1,100 4 1,000 1,000 1,055 1,100 5 1,000 1,000 1,042 1,100 6 1,000 1,000 1,100 1,100 7 700 700 800 800 8 700 700 900 900 9 1,200 1,162 1,100 1,100 10 1,300 1,300 1,200 1,200 11 1,458 1,445 1,300 1,300 12 1,499 1,570 1,400 1,400 13 1,550 1,610 1,638 1,700 14 1,611 1,679 1,759 1,800 74
15 1,610 1,705 1,800 1,800 16 1,609 1,734 1,800 1,800 17 1,630 1,769 1,800 1,800 18 1,642 1,774 1,800 1,800 19 1,573 1,730 1,800 1,800 20 1,488 1,613 1,699 1,700 21 1,467 1,575 1,600 1,600 22 1,442 1,492 1,600 1,600 23 1,577 1,608 1,700 1,700 24 1,371 1,391 1,490 1,500 SAMPLE - In the event of any conflict between this Appendix 5 and the terms of this Power Purchase Agreement, the terms of this Power Purchase Agreement shall govern 75
7/14/2005 7/15/2005 1 1,300 1,300 2 1,100 1,100 3 1,000 1,000 4 1,000 1,000 5 1,000 1,000 6 1,000 1,000 7 700 700 8 700 700 9 1,200 1,200 10 1,300 1,300 11 1,500 1,500 12 1,600 1,600 13 1,800 1,800 14 1,900 1,900 15 1,900 1,900 16 1,900 1,900 17 1,900 1,900 18 1,900 1,900 19 1,900 1,900 20 1,900 1,900 21 1,700 1,700 22 1,600 1,600 23 1,800 1,800 24 1,600 1,600 7/28/2005 7/29/2005 7/30/2005 7/30/2005 1 1,300 1,300 1,200 1,200 2 1,100 1,100 1,100 1,100 3 1,000 1,000 1,100 1,100 4 1,000 1,000 1,100 1,100 5 1,000 1,000 1,100 1,100 6 1,000 1,000 1,100 1,100 7 700 700 800 800 8 700 700 900 900 9 1,200 1,200 1,100 1,100 10 1,300 1,300 1,200 1,200 11 1,500 1,500 1,300 1,300 12 1,600 1,600 1,400 1,400 13 1,700 1,700 1,700 1,700 14 1,800 1,800 1,800 1,800 76
15 1,800 1,800 1,800 1,800 16 1,800 1,800 1,800 1,800 17 1,800 1,800 1,800 1,800 18 1,800 1,800 1,800 1,800 19 1,800 1,800 1,800 1,800 20 1,800 1,800 1,700 1,700 21 1,600 1,600 1,600 1,600 22 1,600 1,600 1,600 1,600 23 1,800 1,800 1,700 1,700 24 1,600 1,600 1,500 1,500 SAMPLE - In the event of any conflict between this Appendix 5 and the terms of this Power Purchase Agreement, the terms of this Power Purchase Agreement shall govern 77
1 1,300 1,300 2 1,100 1,100 3 1,000 1,000 4 1,000 1,000 5 1,000 1,000 6 1,000 1,000 7 700 700 8 700 700 9 1,200 1,200 10 1,300 1,300 11 1,500 1,500 12 1,600 1,600 13 1,800 1,800 14 1,900 1,900 15 1,900 1,900 16 1,900 1,900 17 1,900 1,900 18 1,900 1,900 19 1,900 1,900 20 1,900 1,900 21 1,700 1,700 22 1,600 1,600 23 1,800 1,800 24 1,600 1,600 7/28/2005 7/29/2005 7/30/2005 7/31/2005 1 1,300 1,300 1,200 1,200 2 1,100 1,100 1,100 1,100 3 1,000 1,000 1,100 1,100 4 1,000 1,000 1,100 1,100 5 1,000 1,000 1,100 1,100 6 1,000 1,000 1,100 1,100 7 700 700 800 800 8 700 700 900 900 9 1,200 1,200 1,100 1,100 10 1,300 1,300 1,200 1,200 11 1,500 1,500 1,300 1,300 12 1,600 1,600 1,400 1,400 13 1,700 1,700 1,700 1,700 14 1,800 1,800 1,800 1,800 78
15 1,800 1,800 1,800 1,800 16 1,800 1,800 1,800 1,800 17 1,800 1,800 1,800 1,800 18 1,800 1,800 1,800 1,800 19 1,800 1,800 1,800 1,800 20 1,800 1,800 1,700 1,700 21 1,600 1,600 1,600 1,600 22 1,600 1,600 1,600 1,600 23 1,800 1,800 1,700 1,700 24 1,600 1,600 1,500 1,500 SAMPLE - In the event of any conflict between this Appendix 5 and the terms of this Power Purchase Agreement, the terms of this Power Purchase Agreement shall govern 79
7/13/2005 7/14/2005 7/15/2005 1 130 130 130 2 110 110 110 3 100 100 100 4 100 100 100 5 100 100 100 6 100 100 100 7 100 70 70 8 100 70 70 9 110 120 120 10 140 130 130 11 160 150 150 12 170 160 160 13 170 180 180 14 180 190 190 15 180 190 190 16 180 190 190 17 180 190 190 18 180 190 190 19 180 190 190 20 180 190 190 21 150 170 170 22 150 160 160 23 130 180 180 24 130 160 160 7/29/2005 7/30/2005 7/31/2005 1 130 120 120 2 110 110 110 3 100 110 110 4 100 110 110 5 100 110 110 6 100 110 110 7 70 80 80 8 70 90 90 9 120 110 110 10 130 120 120 11 150 130 130 12 160 140 140 13 170 170 170 14 180 180 180 80
7/28/2005 7/29/2005 7/30/2005 7/31/2005 15 180 180 180 180 16 180 180 180 180 17 180 180 180 180 18 180 180 180 180 19 180 180 180 180 20 180 180 170 170 21 160 160 160 160 22 160 160 160 160 23 180 180 170 170 24 160 160 150 150 SAMPLE - In the event of any conflict between this Appendix 5 and the terms of this Power Purchase Agreement, the terms of this Power Purchase Agreement shall govern 81
7/14/2004 7/15/2005 1 28 0 2 0 0 3 0 0 4 0 0 5 0 0 6 0 0 7 0 0 8 0 0 9 0 0 10 0 0 11 0 0 12 0 0 13 0 0 14 0 0 15 0 0 16 0 0 17 0 0 18 0 0 19 0 0 20 0 0 21 0 0 22 0 0 23 0 0 24 0 0 7/29/2005 7/30/2005 7/31/2005 1 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 3 0 0 0 4 0 0 0 5 0 0 0 6 0 0 0 7 0 0 0 8 0 0 0 9 0 0 0 10 0 0 0 11 0 0 0 12 0 0 0 13 0 0 0 14 0 0 0 82
15 0 0 0 16 0 0 0 17 0 0 0 18 0 0 0 19 0 0 0 20 7 0 0 21 0 0 0 23 12 0 0 24 49 0 0 SAMPLE - In the event of any conflict between this Appendix 5 and the terms of this Power Purchase Agreement, the terms of this Power Purchase Agreement shall govern 83
7/13/2005 7/14/2005 7/15/2005 1 0 0 130 2 0 0 110 3 0 0 100 4 0 0 100 5 0 0 100 6 0 0 100 7 0 70 70 8 0 70 70 9 0 8 120 10 0 16 130 11 0 10 150 12 0 23 160 13 0 0 180 14 0 0 171 15 0 17 177 16 0 64 190 17 10 31 190 18 4 137 190 19 0 13 190 20 0 0 55 21 133 50 169 22 124 126 160 23 130 21 37 24 0 11 0 7/27/2005 7/28/2005 7/29/2005 7/30/2005 7/31/2005 1 81 130 0 54 120 2 40 110 42 68 110 3 77 100 80 0 62 4 40 100 43 0 29 5 15 100 55 0 25 6 0 100 100 6 78 7 0 70 70 30 80 8 54 70 70 90 90 9 68 120 0 78 110 10 91 89 0 120 120 11 0 0 0 130 130 12 58 0 0 140 140 13 24 0 0 0 170 14 0 0 0 0 153 84
Supplemental Energy 15 34 0 0 6 180 16 78 0 0 54 180 17 5 0 0 64 180 18 2 0 0 71 180 19 0 0 0 7 180 20 0 0 0 0 170 21 9 0 0 63 160 22 33 0 0 8 160 23 40 0 0 16 170 24 38 0 0 0 150 SAMPLE - In the event of any conflict between this Appendix 5 and the terms of this Power Purchase Agreement, the terms of this Power Purchase Agreement shall govern 85
7/14/2005 7/15/2005 1 0 35 2 0 170 3 0 198 4 0 183 5 0 167 6 0 270 7 13 386 8 228 586 9 0 177 10 0 202 11 0 132 12 0 112 13 0 4 14 0 0 15 0 0 16 0 37 17 0 84 18 0 66 19 0 4 20 0 0 21 0 0 22 0 58 23 0 0 24 0 0 7/29/2005 7/30/2005 7/31/2005 1 0 0 40 2 0 0 44 3 0 0 0 4 0 0 0 5 0 0 0 6 28 0 0 7 92 0 49 8 248 13 106 9 0 0 83 10 0 14 170 11 0 49 207 12 0 36 284 13 0 0 12 14 0 0 0 86
7/29/2005 7/30/2005 7/31/2005 15 0 0 17 16 0 0 104 17 0 0 156 18 0 0 132 19 0 0 57 20 0 0 41 21 0 0 117 22 0 0 39 23 0 0 31 24 0 0 13 SAMPLE - In the event of any conflict between this Appendix 5 and the terms of this Power Purchase Agreement, the terms of this Power Purchase Agreement shall govern 87
7/13/2005 7/14/2005 7/15/2005 1 $ - $ - $ 3,900 2 $ - $ - $ 3,300 3 $ - $ - $ 3,000 4 $ - $ - $ 3,000 5 $ - $ - $ 3,000 6 $ - $ - $ 3,000 7 $ - $ 2,100 $ 2,100 8 $ - $ 2,100 $ 2,100 9 $ - $ 240 $ 3,600 10 $ - $ 480 $ 3,900 11 $ - $ 300 $ 4,500 12 $ - $ 690 $ 4,800 13 $ - $ - $ 5,400 14 $ - $ - $ 5,130 15 $ - $ 510 $ 5,310 16 $ - $ 1,920 $ 5,700 17 $ 300 $ 930 $ 5,700 18 $ 120 $ 4,110 $ 5,700 19 $ - $ 390 $ 5,700 20 $ - $ - $ 1,650 21 $ 3,990 $ 1,500 $ 5,070 22 $ 3,720 $ 3,780 $ 4,800 23 $ 3,900 $ 630 $ 1,110 24 $ - $ 330 $ - 7/28/2005 7/29/2005 7/30/2005 7/31/2005 1 $ 3,900 $ - $ 1,620 $ 3,600 2 $ 3,300 $ 1,260 $ 2,040 $ 3,300 3 $ 3,000 $ 2,400 $ - $ 1,860 4 $ 3,000 $ 1,290 $ - $ 870 5 $ 3,000 $ 1,650 $ - $ 750 6 $ 3,000 $ 3,000 $ 180 $ 2,340 7 $ 2,100 $ 2,100 $ 900 $ 2,400 8 $ 2,100 $ 2,100 $ 2,700 $ 2,700 9 $ 3,600 $ - $ 2,340 $ 3,300 10 $ 2,670 $ - $ 3,600 $ 3,600 11 $ - $ - $ 3,900 $ 3,900 12 $ - $ - $ 4,200 $ 4,200 13 $ - $ - $ - $ 5,100 14 $ - $ - $ - $ 4,590 88
15 $ - $ - $ 180 $ 5,400 16 $ - $ - $ 1,620 $ 5,400 17 $ - $ - $ 1,920 $ 5,400 18 $ - $ - $ 2,130 $ 5,400 19 $ - $ - $ 210 $ 5,400 20 $ - $ - $ - $ 5,100 21 $ - $ - $ 1,890 $ 4,800 22 $ - $ - $ 240 $ 4,800 23 $ - $ - $ 480 $ 5,100 24 $ - $ - $ - $ 4,500 SAMPLE - In the event of any conflict between this Appendix 5 and the terms of this Power Purchase Agreement, the terms of this Power Purchase Agreement shall govern 89
7/13/2005 7/14/2005 7/15/2005 1 $ - $ - $ 1,050 2 $ - $ - $ 5,100 3 $ - $ - $ 5,940 4 $ - $ - $ 5,490 5 $ - $ - $ 5,010 6 $ - $ - $ 8,100 7 $ - $ 365 $ 7,972 8 $ - $ 5,418 $17,847 9 $ - $ - $ 6,644 10 $ - $ - $ 8,697 11 $ - $ - $ 6,284 12 $ - $ - $ 6,448 13 $ - $ - $ 243 14 $ - $ - $ - 15 $ - $ - $ - 16 $ - $ - $ 1,985 17 $ - $ - $ 5,294 18 $ - $ - $ 3,485 19 $ - $ - $ 101 20 $ - $ - $ - 21 $ - $ - $ - 22 $ - $ - $ 1,722 23 $ 540 $ - $ - 24 $ - $ - $ - 7/28/2005 7/29/2005 7/30/2005 7/31/2005 1 $ 1,920 $ - $ - $ 1,200 2 $ 5,250 $ - $ - $ 1,320 3 $ 6,360 $ - $ - $ - 4 $ 5,280 $ - $ - $ - 5 $ 4,620 $ - $ - $ - 6 $ 6,420 $ 840 $ - $ - 7 $11,885 $ 2,011 $ - $ 2,301 8 $28,051 $ 7,847 $ 596 $ 4,771 9 $ 197 $ - $ - $ 2,426 10 $ - $ - $ 543 $ 6,515 11 $ - $ - $ 2,487 $11,901 12 $ - $ - $ 1,328 $18,639 13 $ - $ - $ - $ 542 14 $ - $ - $ - $ - 90
15 $ - $ - $ 739 16 $ - $ - $ 5,670 17 $ - $ - $ 6,355 18 $ - $ - $ 4,983 19 $ - $ - $ 4,000 20 $ - $ - $ 3,378 21 $ - $ - $ 8,206 22 $ - $ - $ 1,263 23 $ - $ - $ 930 24 $ - $ - $ 390 SAMPLE - In the event of any conflict between this Appendix 5 and the terms of this Power Purchase Agreement, the terms of this Power Purchase Agreement shall govern 91
7/14/2005 7/15/2005 1 $ - $ - 2 $ - $ - 3 $ - $ - 4 $ - $ - 5 $ - $ - 6 $ - $ - 7 $ - $ - 8 $ - $ - 9 $ - $ - 10 $ - $ - 11 $ - $ - 12 $ - $ - 13 $ - $ - 14 $ - $ - 15 $ - $ - 16 $ - $ - 17 $ - $ - 18 $ - $ - 19 $ - $ - 20 $ - $ - 21 $ - $ - 22 $ - $ - 23 $ - $ - 24 $ - $ - 7/28/2005 7/29/2005 7/30/2005 7/31/2005 1 $ - $ - $ - $ - 2 $ - $ - $ - $ - 3 $ - $ - $ - $ - 4 $ - $ - $ - $ - 5 $ - $ - $ - $ - 6 $ - $ - $ - $ - 7 $ - $ - $ - $ - 8 $ - $ - $ - $ - 9 $ - $ - $ - $ - 10 $ - $ - $ - $ - 11 $ - $ - $ - $ - 12 $ - $ - $ - $ - 13 $ - $ - $ - $ - 14 $ 163 $ - $ - $ - 92
15 $ - $ - $ - 16 $ 17 $ - $ - 17 $ - $ - $ - 18 $ - $ - $ - 19 $ - $ - $ - 20 $ 431 $ 64 $ - 21 $ - $ - $ - 22 $ - $ - $ - 23 $ - $ - $ - 24 $ - $ - $ - SAMPLE - In the event of any conflict between this Appendix 5 and the terms of this Power Purchase Agreement, the terms of this Power Purchase Agreement shall govern 93
7/14/2005 7/15/2005 1 $ 30.00 $ 30.00 2 $ 30.00 $ 30.00 3 $ 30.00 $ 30.00 4 $ 30.00 $ 30.00 5 $ 30.00 $ 30.00 6 $ 30.00 $ 30.00 7 $ 23.92 $ 17.58 8 $ 20.22 $ 25.92 9 $ 28.17 $ 31.94 10 $ 35.69 $ 36.64 11 $ 42.13 $ 40.51 12 $ 45.18 $ 49.00 13 $ 49.69 $ 51.73 14 $ 44.64 $ 60.02 15 $ 52.99 $ 51.86 16 $ 50.82 $ 45.65 17 $ 48.62 $ 53.63 18 $ 37.65 $ 44.94 19 $ 21.76 $ 21.42 20 $ 36.34 $ 36.26 21 $ 49.54 $ 56.86 22 $ 26.39 $ 25.27 23 $ 30.00 $ 30.00 24 $ 30.00 $ 30.00 7/28/2005 7/29/2005 7/30/2005 7/31/2005 1 $ 30.00 $ 30.00 $ 30.00 $ 30.00 2 $ 30.00 $ 30.00 $ 30.00 $ 30.00 3 $ 30.00 $ 30.00 $ 30.00 $ 30.00 4 $ 30.00 $ 30.00 $ 30.00 $ 30.00 5 $ 30.00 $ 30.00 $ 30.00 $ 30.00 6 $ 30.00 $ 30.00 $ 30.00 $ 30.00 7 $ 32.01 $ 18.60 $ 37.10 $ 39.97 8 $ 53.53 $ 26.93 $ 39.02 $ 38.30 9 $ 41.84 $ 34.96 $ 21.07 $ 24.88 10 $ 38.03 $ 33.55 $ 33.01 $ 32.62 11 $ 44.76 $ 34.72 $ 43.20 $ 48.93 12 $ 28.83 $ 36.66 $ 31.40 $ 55.86 13 $ 34.65 $ 53.18 $ 39.16 $ 38.43 94
14 $ 46.43 $ 53.89 $ 35.82 15 $ 39.60 $ 49.13 $ 36.98 16 $ 42.53 $ 42.97 $ 46.40 17 $ 54.80 $ 41.57 $ 34.67 18 $ 38.23 $ 30.22 $ 32.13 19 $ 27.50 $ 25.73 $ 59.72 20 $ 33.29 $ 35.87 $ 70.13 21 $ 53.26 $ 40.67 $ 59.69 22 $ 21.66 $ 26.02 $ 27.56 23 $ 30.00 $ 30.00 $ 30.00 24 $ 30.00 $ 30.00 $ 30.00 SAMPLE - In the event of any conflict between this Appendix 5 and the terms of this Power Purchase Agreement, the terms of this Power Purchase Agreement shall govern 95
96
97
98
99
100
101

EXHIBIT 10.2 THIRD AMENDED AMEREN CORPORATION SYSTEM UTILITY MONEY POOL AGREEMENT This UTILITY MONEY POOL AGREEMENT made and entered into on the 25th day of March, 1999, as amended September 15, 2003, October 20, 2003, and September 30, 2004 by and among Ameren Corporation ("Ameren"), a Missouri corporation and a registered holding company under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, as amended (the "Act"); Ameren Services Company ("Ameren Services"), a Missouri corporation and a subsidiary service company of Ameren; Union Electric Company, doing business as AmerenUE ("AmerenUE"), a Missouri corporation and a utility subsidiary of Ameren; Central Illinois Public Service Company, doing business as AmerenCIPS ("AmerenCIPS"), an Illinois corporation and a utility subsidiary of Ameren, Central Illinois Light Company, doing business as AmerenCILCO ("AmerenCILCO"), an Illinois corporation and an indirect utility subsidiary of Ameren , AmerenEnergy Resources Generating Company ("AERG"), an Illinois corporation and direct subsidiary of AmerenCILCO, and Illinois Power Company, doing business as AmerenIP ("AmerenIP"), an Illinois corporation and utility subsidiary of Ameren, (each a "Party" and collectively, the "Parties"). WHEREFORE, the Parties from time to time have need to borrow funds on a short-term basis, and some of the Parties from time to time are expected to have funds available to loan on a short-term basis; WHEREAS, by the Utility Money Pool Agreement ("Agreement") dated March 25, 1999 all of the Parties, except AmerenCILCO , AERG and AmerenIP, established a pool (the "Utility Money Pool") to coordinate and provide for certain of their short-term cash and working capital requirements; WHEREAS, on January 31, 2003 Ameren acquired CILCORP Inc. including AmerenCILCO; WHEREAS, the Agreement dated March 25, 1999 was amended on September 15, 2003 to add AmerenCILCO as a party to the Utility Money Pool and to make minor changes to the Utility Money Pool Agreement; WHEREAS, effective October 3, 2003, AmerenCILCO transferred certain electric generating assets to AERG and AERG commenced operations as a "public utility" as defined by the Act; WHEREAS, AERG is not a utility under Illinois law; WHEREAS, the Agreement dated March 25,1999, as amended on September 15, 2003, was further amended on October 20, 2003, to add AERG as a party to the
Agreement and to allow AERG to be a lender to, but not a borrower from, the Utility Money Pool; WHEREAS, on September 30, 2004, Ameren acquired Illinois Power Company, which then commenced doing business as AmerenIP; and WHEREAS, the Parties desire to add AmerenIP as a party to the Utility Money Pool and the Agreement. NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises, and the mutual promises set forth herein, the Parties hereto agree as follows: ARTICLE I CONTRIBUTIONS AND BORROWINGS Section 1.1 Contributions to Utility Money Pool. Each Party will determine each day, on the basis of cash flow projections and other relevant factors, in such Party's sole discretion, the amount of funds it has available for contribution to the Utility Money Pool, and will contribute such funds to the Utility Money Pool. The determination of whether a Party at any time has surplus funds to lend to the Utility Money Pool or shall lend funds to the Utility Money Pool will be made by such Party's Treasurer, or by a designee thereof, on the basis of cash flow projections and other relevant factors, in such Party's sole discretion. Each Party may withdraw any of its funds at any time upon notice to Ameren Services as administrative agent of the Utility Money Pool. Section 1.2 Rights to Borrow. Subject to the provisions of Section 1.4(b) of this Agreement, short-term borrowing needs of the Parties, with the exception of Ameren and AERG, may be met by funds in the Utility Money Pool to the extent such funds are available. Each Party (other than Ameren and AERG) shall have the right to make short-term borrowings from the Utility Money Pool from time to time, subject to the availability of funds and the limitations and conditions set forth herein and in the applicable orders of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). AmerenUE's aggregate principal amount of borrowings outstanding at any one time from the Utility Money Pool will be limited to $500 million. Each Party (other than Ameren and AERG) may request loans from the Utility Money Pool from time to time during the period from the date hereof until this Agreement is terminated by written agreement of the Parties; provided, however, that the aggregate amount of all loans requested by any Party hereunder shall not exceed the applicable borrowing limits set forth in applicable orders of the SEC and other relevant regulatory authorities, resolutions of such Party's shareholders and Board of Directors, such Party's governing corporate documents, and agreements binding upon such Party. No Party shall be obligated to borrow from the Utility Money Pool if lower cost funds can be obtained from external borrowing. No loans through the Utility Money Pool will be made to, and no borrowings through the Utility Money Pool will be made by, Ameren or AERG. 2
Section 1.3 Source of Funds. (a) Funds will be available through the Utility Money Pool from the following sources for use by the Parties from time to time: (i) surplus funds in the treasuries of Parties other than Ameren, (ii) surplus funds in the treasury of Ameren, and (iii) proceeds from bank borrowings and the sale of commercial paper by Parties ("External Funds"), in each case to the extent permitted by applicable laws and regulatory orders. Funds will be made available from such sources in such other order as Ameren Services, as administrator of the Utility Money Pool, may determine will result in a lower cost of borrowing to Parties borrowing from the Utility Money Pool, consistent with the individual borrowing needs and financial standing of the Parties providing funds to the Utility Money Pool. (b) Borrowing Parties will borrow pro rata from each lending Party in the proportion that the total amount loaned by such lending Party bears to the total amount then loaned through the Utility Money Pool. On any day when more than one fund source (e.g., surplus treasury funds of Ameren and other Utility Money Pool participants ("Internal Funds") and External Funds), with different rates of interest, is used to fund loans through the Utility Money Pool, each borrowing Party will borrow pro rata from each fund source in the same proportion that the amount of funds provided by that fund source bears to the total amount of short-term funds available in the Utility Money Pool. Section 1.4 Authorization. (a) Each loan shall be authorized by the lending Party's Treasurer, or by a designee thereof. (b) All borrowings from the Utility Money Pool shall be authorized by the borrowing Party's Treasurer, or by a designee thereof. No Party shall be required to effect a borrowing through the Utility Money Pool if such Party determines that it can (and is authorized to) effect such borrowing at lower cost directly from banks or through the sale of its own commercial paper in an existing commercial paper program. Section 1.5 Interest. Each Party receiving a loan shall accrue interest monthly on the unpaid principal amount of such loan in the Utility Money Pool from the date of such loan until such principal amount shall be paid in full. (a) If only Internal Funds comprise the funds available in the Utility Money Pool, the interest rate applicable to loans of such Internal Funds shall be the CD yield equivalent of the 30-day Federal Reserve "AA" Non-Financial commercial paper composite rate (or, if no such rate is established for that day, then the applicable rate shall be the rate for the next preceding day for which such rate was established). (b) If only External Funds comprise the funds available in the Utility Money Pool, the interest rate applicable to loans of such External Funds shall be equal to the lending Party's cost for such External Funds (or, if more than one Party had made available External Funds on such day, the applicable interest rate shall be a composite rate, equal to the weighted average of the cost incurred by the respective Parties for such External Funds). 3
(c) In cases where both Internal Funds and External Funds are concurrently borrowed through the Utility Money Pool, the rate applicable to all loans comprised of such "blended" funds shall be a composite rate, equal to the weighted average of the (i) cost of all Internal Funds contributed by Parties (as determined pursuant to Section 1.5(a) above) and (ii) the cost of all such External Funds (as determined pursuant to Section 1.5(b) above); provided, that in circumstances where Internal Funds and External Funds are available for loans through the Utility Money Pool, loans may be made exclusively from Internal Funds or External Funds, rather than from a "blend" of such funds, to the extent it is expected that such loans would result in a lower cost of borrowing. Section 1.6 Certain Costs. The cost of compensating balances and/or fees paid to banks to maintain credit lines by Parties lending External Funds to the Utility Money Pool shall initially be paid by the Party maintaining such line. A portion of such costs shall be retroactively allocated every month to the Parties borrowing such External Funds through the Utility Money Pool in proportion to their respective daily outstanding borrowings of such External Funds. Section 1.7 Repayment. Each Party receiving a loan hereunder shall repay the principal amount of such loan, together with all interest accrued thereon, on demand and in any event within one year of the date on which such loan was made. All loans made through the Utility Money Pool may be prepaid by the borrower without premium or penalty. Section 1.8 Form of Loans to Parties. Loans to the Parties through the Utility Money Pool will be made pursuant to open-account advances, repayable upon demand and in any event not later than one year after the date of the advance; provided, that each lending Party shall at all times be entitled to receive upon demand one or more promissory notes evidencing any and all loans by such lender. Any such note shall: (a) be substantially in the form filed as Exhibit B to the Form U-1 Application-Declaration in File No. 70-9423, (b) be dated as of the date of the initial borrowing, (c) mature on demand or on a date agreed by the Parties to the transaction, but in any event not later than one year after the date of the applicable borrowing, and (d) be repayable in whole at any time or in part from time to time, without premium or penalty. ARTICLE II OPERATION OF UTILITY MONEY POOL Section 2.1 Operation. Operation of the Utility Money Pool, including record keeping and coordination of loans, will be handled by Ameren Services under the authority of the appropriate officers of the Parties. Ameren Services shall be responsible for the determination of all applicable interest rates and charges to be applied to advances outstanding at any time hereunder, shall maintain records of all advances, interest charges and accruals and interest and principal payments for purposes hereof, and shall prepare periodic reports thereof for the Parties. Ameren Services will administer the Utility 4
Money Pool on an "at cost" basis. Separate records shall be kept by Ameren Services for the Utility Money Pool established by this agreement and any other money pool administered by Ameren Services. Section 2.2 Investment of Surplus Funds in the Utility Money Pool. Funds not required to meet Utility Money Pool loans (with the exception of funds required to satisfy the Utility Money Pool's liquidity requirements) will ordinarily be invested in one or more short-term investments, including: (i) interest-bearing accounts with banks; (ii) obligations issued or guaranteed by the U.S. government and/or its agencies and instrumentalities, including obligations under repurchase agreements; (iii) obligations issued or guaranteed by any state or political subdivision thereof, provided that such obligations are rated not less than A by a nationally recognized rating agency; (iv) commercial paper rated not less than A-1 or P-1 or their equivalent by a nationally recognized rating agency; (v) money market funds; (vi) bank certificates of deposit and bankers acceptances; (vii) Eurodollar certificates of deposit or time deposits; (viii) investment grade medium term notes, variable rate demand notes and variable rate preferred stock; and (ix) such other investments as are permitted by Section 9(c) of the Act and Rule 40 thereunder but only if also permitted by either applicable rule or order by each state commission having jurisdiction over such investments or by applicable statutes of each such state. Section 2.3 Allocation of Interest Income and Investment Earnings. The interest income and other investment income earned by the Utility Money Pool on loans and investment of surplus funds will be allocated among the Parties in accordance with the proportion each Party's contribution of funds in the Utility Money Pool bears to the total amount of funds in the Utility Money Pool and the cost of any External Funds provided to the Utility Money Pool by such Party. Interest and other investment earnings will be computed on a daily basis and settled once per month. Section 2.4 Event of Default. If any Party shall generally not pay its debts as such debts become due, or shall admit in writing its inability to pay its debts generally, or shall make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors, or any proceeding shall be instituted by or against any Party seeking to adjudicate it a bankrupt or insolvent, then the other Parties may declare the unpaid principal amount of any loans to such Party, and all interest thereon, to be forthwith due and payable and all such amounts shall forthwith become due and payable. ARTICLE III MISCELLANEOUS Section 3.1 Amendments. No amendment to this Agreement shall be adopted except in a writing executed by the Parties. Section 3.2 Legal Responsibility. Nothing herein contained shall render any Party liable for the obligations of any other Party hereunder and the rights, obligations and 5
liabilities of the Parties are several in accordance with their respective obligations, and not joint. Section 3.3 Governing Law. This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of Missouri. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned companies have duly caused this document to be signed on their behalf on the date of amendment written above by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. AMEREN CORPORATION By /s/ Jerre E. Birdsong ------------------------------------ Name: Jerre E. Birdsong Title: Vice President and Treasurer AMEREN SERVICES COMPANY By /s/ Jerre E. Birdsong ------------------------------------ Name: Jerre E. Birdsong Title: Vice President and Treasurer UNION ELECTRIC COMPANY By /s/ Jerre E. Birdsong ------------------------------------ Name: Jerre E. Birdsong Title: Vice President and Treasurer CENTRAL ILLINOIS PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY By /s/ Jerre E. Birdsong ------------------------------------ Name: Jerre E. Birdsong Title: Vice President and Treasurer 6
CENTRAL ILLINOIS LIGHT COMPANY By /s/ Jerre E. Birdsong ------------------------------------ Name: Jerre E. Birdsong Title: Vice President and Treasurer AMERENENERGY RESOURCES GENERATING COMPANY By /s/ Jerre E. Birdsong ------------------------------------ Name: Jerre E. Birdsong Title: Vice President and Treasurer ILLINOIS POWER COMPANY By /s/ Jerre E. Birdsong ------------------------------------ Name: Jerre E. Birdsong Title: Vice President and Treasurer 7

EXHIBIT 10.3 UNILATERAL BORROWING AGREEMENT This UNILATERAL BORROWING AGREEMENT ("Agreement") made and entered into on the 30th day of September, 2004, among Ameren Corporation ("Ameren"), a Missouri corporation and a registered holding company under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, as amended, Illinois Power Company, doing business as AmerenIP ("AmerenIP"), an Illinois corporation and a utility subsidiary of Ameren and Ameren Services Company, a Missouri corporation and a subsidiary service company of Ameren ("Ameren Services") (each a "Party" and collectively, the "Parties"). WHEREAS, AmerenIP is expected to need from time to time to borrow funds on a short-term basis; WHEREAS, Ameren and AmerenIP desire to enter into an agreement whereby AmerenIP will be able to make such short-term borrowings directly from Ameren from time to time; WHEREAS, the Parties contemplate that AmerenIP will become a party to the Ameren Corporation Utility Money Pool Agreement, dated March 25, 1999, as amended ("Utility Money Pool"); and WHEREAS, this Agreement is subject to and designed to comply with 83 Illinois Administrative Code Part 340 (the "ICC Money Pool Rules"). NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises, and the mutual promises set forth herein, the Parties hereto agree as follows: ARTICLE I: BORROWINGS BY AMERENIP Section 1.1 Rights to Borrow. Subject to the provisions of Section 1.3(b) of this Agreement, Ameren agrees to meet any short-term borrowing needs of AmerenIP up to an aggregate amount outstanding at any time of $500 million (the "Available Limit"). There shall be deducted from the Available Limit any other outstanding short-term debt obligations of AmerenIP including, but not limited to, amounts owing under the Utility Money Pool. AmerenIP shall have the right to make short-term borrowings under this Agreement, subject to the availability of funds and the limitations and conditions set forth herein and in the applicable orders of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and the Illinois Commerce Commission ("ICC") and limitations of the ICC Money Pool Rules. AmerenIP may request loans under this Agreement from time to time during the period from the date hereof until this Agreement is terminated by written agreement of the Parties upon not less than 10 days notice; provided, however, that the aggregate amount of all loans requested by AmerenIP hereunder shall not exceed the applicable borrowing limits set forth in applicable orders of the SEC, the ICC, and other relevant regulatory authorities, resolutions of such Party's shareholders and Board of Directors,
such Party's governing corporate documents, and agreements binding upon such Party. Ameren may not borrow under this Agreement from AmerenIP. Section 1.2 Source of Funds. (a) Funds will be made available by Ameren to AmerenIP through this Agreement from the following sources: (i) surplus funds in the treasury of Ameren ("Internal Funds") and (ii) proceeds from bank borrowings and the sale of commercial paper by Ameren ("External Funds"), in each case to the extent permitted by applicable laws and regulatory orders. Funds will be made available from such sources in such order as the Parties may determine will result in a lower cost of borrowing to the Parties consistent with AmerenIP's borrowing needs and financial standing of Ameren. (b) On any day when more than one fund source (e.g., Internal Funds and External Funds), with different rates of interest, is used to fund loans under this Agreement, AmerenIP will borrow pro rata from each fund source in the same proportion that the amount of funds provided by that fund source bears to the total amount of short-term funds available hereunder. Section 1.3 Authorization. (a) Each loan shall be authorized by Ameren's Treasurer, or by a designee thereof. (b) All borrowings under this Agreement shall be authorized by AmerenIP's Treasurer, or by a designee thereof. AmerenIP shall not be required to effect a borrowing under this Agreement if it determines that it can (and is authorized to) effect such borrowing at lower cost through the Utility Money Pool or directly from banks or through the sale of its own commercial paper in an existing commercial paper program. Section 1.4 Interest. Interest shall accrue monthly on the unpaid principal amount of loans made under this Agreement from the date of such loan until such principal amount shall be paid in full. (a) If only Internal Funds comprise the funds loaned to AmerenIP under this Agreement, the interest rate applicable to loans of such Internal Funds shall be the CD yield equivalent of the 30-day Federal Reserve "AA" Non-Financial commercial paper composite rate (or, if no such rate is established for that day, then the applicable rate shall be the rate for the next preceding day for which such rate was established). (b) If only External Funds comprise the funds loaned to AmerenIP under this Agreement, the interest rate applicable to loans of such External Funds shall be equal to Ameren's cost for such External Funds. The rate of interest shall not exceed the rate permitted by Section 340.30 (c) of the ICC Money Pool Rules. (c) In cases where both Internal Funds and External Funds comprise the funds loaned to AmerenIP under this Agreement, the rate applicable to all loans comprised of such "blended" funds shall be a composite rate, equal to the weighted average of the (i) 2
cost of all Internal Funds (as determined pursuant to Section 1.4(a) above) and (ii) the cost of all such External Funds (as determined pursuant to Section 1.4(b) above); provided, that in circumstances where Internal Funds and External Funds are available for loans under this Agreement, loans may be made exclusively from Internal Funds or External Funds, rather than from a "blend" of such funds, to the extent it is expected that such loans would result in a lower cost of borrowing. Section 1.5 Certain Costs. The cost of compensating balances and/or fees paid to banks to maintain credit lines shall initially be paid by Ameren. A portion of such costs shall be retroactively allocated every month to AmerenIP as a borrower of External Funds under this Agreement in proportion to its respective daily outstanding borrowings of such External Funds calculated as required for "issuance costs" under the ICC Money Pool Rules. Section 1.6 Repayment. AmerenIP shall repay the principal amount of loans made under this Agreement, together with all interest accrued thereon, on demand and in any event within one year of the date on which such loan was made. All loans made by AmerenIP under this Agreement may be prepaid at any time without premium or penalty. Section 1.7 Form of Loans to AmerenIP. Loans made by Ameren to AmerenIP under this Agreement will be made pursuant to open-account advances, repayable upon demand and in any event not later than one year after the date of the advance; provided, that Ameren shall at all times be entitled to receive upon demand one or more promissory notes evidencing any and all loans made by it. Any such note shall: (a) be substantially in the form attached as Exhibit A hereto, (b) be dated as of the date of the initial borrowing, (c) mature on demand or on a date agreed by the Parties to the transaction, but in any event not later than one year after the date of the applicable borrowing, and (d) be repayable in whole at any time or in part from time to time, without premium or penalty. ARTICLE II: OPERATION OF THIS UNILATERAL BORROWING AGREEMENT Section 2.1 Operation. Operation of this Agreement, including record keeping and coordination of loans, will be handled by Ameren Services under the authority of the appropriate officers of the Parties. Ameren Services shall be responsible for the determination of all applicable interest rates and charges to be applied to advances outstanding at any time hereunder, shall maintain records of all advances, interest charges and accruals and interest and principal payments for purposes hereof, and shall prepare periodic reports thereof for the Parties. Ameren Services will administer this Agreement on an "at cost" basis. Separate records shall be kept by Ameren Services for this Agreement and any other intercompany borrowing arrangements administered by Ameren Services. Ameren Services will keep necessary records and shall prepare and file on behalf of AmerenIP the reports and information required to be submitted to the Illinois Commerce Commission under Section 340.60 of the ICC Money Pool Rules. 3
Section 2.2 Event of Default. If AmerenIP shall generally not pay its debts as such debts become due, or shall admit in writing its inability to pay its debts generally, or shall make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors, or any proceeding shall be instituted by or against AmerenIP seeking to adjudicate it a bankrupt or insolvent, then Ameren may declare the unpaid principal amount of any loans to AmerenIP, and all interest thereon, to be forthwith due and payable and all such amounts shall forthwith become due and payable. ARTICLE III: MISCELLANEOUS Section 3.1 Amendments. No amendment to this Agreement shall be adopted except in a writing executed by the Parties. Section 3.2 Legal Responsibility. Nothing herein contained shall render any Party liable for the obligations of any other Party hereunder. Section 3.3 Governing Law. This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of Missouri. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned companies have duly caused this document to be signed on their behalf on the date written above by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. AMEREN CORPORATION By /s/ Jerre E. Birdsong ------------------------------- Name: Jerre E. Birdsong Title: Vice President and Treasurer ILLINOIS POWER COMPANY By /s/ Jerre E. Birdsong ------------------------------- Name: Jerre E. Birdsong Title: Vice President and Treasurer AMEREN SERVICES COMPANY By /s/ Jerre E. Birdsong ------------------------------- Name: Jerre E. Birdsong Title: Vice President and Treasurer 4
EXHIBIT A FORM OF UNILATERAL BORROWING AGREEMENT NOTE $ (See attached schedule for principal amount [Date] outstanding at any time.) FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned, Illinois Power Company d/b/a AmerenIP, an Illinois corporation (the "Company"), hereby unconditionally promises to pay to the order of Ameren Corporation (the "Lender"), on demand, or on a date agreed to by the Company and the Lender (but in any case not later than one year after the date of the applicable borrowing), at the offices of Ameren Corporation, in lawful money of the United States of America and in immediately available funds, the aggregate unpaid principal amount of all loans (that are posted on the schedule annexed hereto and made a Part hereof) made by the Lender to the Company under the Unilateral Borrowing Agreement, dated as of ________, (the "Agreement") between Lender and the Company. Borrowings by the Company under the Agreement are in accordance with approvals in effect from time to time of the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, as amended and approvals of the Illinois Commerce Commission. The Company further agrees to pay in like money at such office accrued interest on the unpaid principal amount hereof from time to time from the date of the applicable borrowing at the rate as determined by Ameren Services Company, in its capacity as a administrator of the Agreement, in accordance with the terms and provisions of the Agreement. Interest shall be payable monthly in arrears and upon payment (including prepayment) in full of the unpaid principal amount hereof. This Note shall be governed by, and construed and interpreted in accordance with, the Laws of the State of Missouri. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, pursuant to due authorization, has caused this Note to be executed in its name and on its behalf by its duly authorized officer. Illinois Power Company d/b/a AmerenIP By: _________________________ Name: Title:

EXHIBIT 99.1 [GRAPHIC OMITTED][GRAPHIC OMITTED] One Ameren Plaza News Release 1901 Chouteau Avenue St. Louis, MO 63103 AMEREN COMPLETES PURCHASE OF ILLINOIS POWER COMPANY St. Louis, Mo., Oct. 1, 2004---Ameren Corporation (NYSE: AEE) today announced that the company has completed the acquisition of Decatur, Ill.-based Illinois Power Company (IP) from Dynegy Inc. (NYSE: DYN) with Sept. 30 as the effective date. IP--now doing business as AmerenIP--serves approximately 600,000 electric and 415,000 natural gas customers over 15,000 square miles in Illinois. In a transaction valued at approximately $2.3 billion, Ameren assumed approximately $1.8 billion in Illinois Power (IP) debt and preferred stock, placed $100 million in a six-year escrow account for certain contingent environmental liabilities and paid the balance in cash to Dynegy. In addition to IP's transmission and distribution system assets, the acquisition also included the purchase of Dynegy's 20 percent interest in Electric Energy, Inc. (EEI)--the owner of a 1,086-megawatt, Joppa, Ill., coal-fired power plant. Prior to the acquisition, Ameren owned 60 percent of EEI. The transaction includes a new firm capacity power supply contract for the annual purchase by IP of 2,800 megawatts of electricity from a subsidiary of Dynegy. That contract for 2005 and 2006 is expected to supply approximately 70 percent of IP's electric customer requirements. Illinois Power is currently soliciting bids to supply its remaining electric requirements. Because bundled retail electric rates are frozen at current levels in Illinois through 2006, the acquisition will not have an immediate impact on retail electric rates paid by customers of IP (AmerenIP). "We are extremely pleased to complete the purchase of Illinois Power. We also appreciate the timely approvals of this transaction by the various regulatory agencies, including the Illinois Commerce Commission, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and the Securities and Exchange Commission. In particular, we would like to recognize FERC Chairman Pat Wood and ICC Chairman Ed Hurley for their leadership and hard work in this matter. At the end of the day, we believe the regulatory authorities recognized, as we did, the significant benefits of this transaction, which, as a natural fit with Ameren's existing business, will bring significant benefits to customers, communities, investors and employees of both companies," said Gary L. Rainwater, chairman, president and chief executive officer, Ameren Corporation. "Acquiring IP provides a long-term growth opportunity for our company, while enhancing our ability to continue to deliver high-quality service to the nearly two million electric and natural gas customers we now serve in the state of Illinois." -- more --
Add One The transaction was unanimously approved by both companies' boards of directors and received approval from the Illinois Commerce Commission (ICC), the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) and the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). In addition, the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 expired without a request by the Federal Trade Commission and the Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice for additional information or documents. In February when Ameren and Dynegy announced the agreement, Ameren also announced a number of commitments: These included an immediate contribution of $300,000 to the Decatur and other IP service area United Way organizations. The company also made the following post-closing commitments: >> The headquarters of AmerenIP will remain in Decatur for not less than five years. >> AmerenIP work force reductions resulting from the acquisition will not exceed 25 employees for a period of four years, except to the extent such additional reductions occur through attrition or voluntary separation programs. >> AmerenIP employees, retirees and those retirees' surviving dependents will remain in their current IP benefit plans or be moved into appropriate Ameren plans, and AmerenIP will honor all existing labor agreements. >> Ameren will commit between $275 million and $325 million in energy infrastructure investments over its first two years of ownership. >> Ameren will increase total contributions to United Way, civic, charitable and social service organizations in AmerenIP's service territory to at least $1.5 million annually. >> In keeping with Ameren's strong track record of supporting economic development throughout its service areas, Ameren will commit additional resources to support and enhance economic development aimed at attracting new jobs in the IP service territory. With the acquisition of IP, Ameren assets total approximately $17 billion. Ameren owns a diverse mix of electric generating plants strategically located in its Midwest market with a capacity of more than 14,800 megawatts. Ameren serves 2.3 million electric customers and more than 900,000 natural gas customers in Missouri and Illinois. Forward-Looking Statements Statements made in this release, which are not based on historical facts, are "forward-looking" and, accordingly, involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed. Although such "forward-looking" statements have been made in good faith and are based on reasonable assumptions, there is no assurance that the expected results will be achieved. These statements include (without limitation) statements as to future expectations, beliefs, plans, strategies, objectives, events, conditions, and financial performance. In connection with the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, the company is providing this cautionary statement to identify important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. The following factors, in addition to those discussed elsewhere in this release and in past and subsequent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, could cause actual results to differ materially from management expectations as suggested by such "forward-looking" statements: difficulties in integrating Illinois Power with Ameren's other businesses; and changes in the energy markets, environmental laws or regulations, interest rates or other factors adversely impacting assumptions in connection with the Illinois Power acquisition. # # #


