FILE:AEE/AEE-8K-20051227151851.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
SECTION 8 - OTHER EVENTS
 
ITEM 8.01 Other Events.
On December 27, 2005, Central Illinois Light Company, doing business as AmerenCILCO, Central Illinois Public Service Company, doing business as AmerenCIPS, and Illinois Power Company, doing business as AmerenIP, issued a press release announcing that they had filed requests with the Illinois Commerce Commission for increases in electricity delivery service rates. The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
SECTION 9 - FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
  
   
                
Exhibit Number:
Title:
 
This combined Form 8-K is being filed separately by Ameren Corporation, Central Illinois Public Service Company, CILCORP Inc., Central Illinois Light Company and Illinois Power Company (each a registrant). Information contained herein relating to any individual registrant has been filed by such registrant on its own behalf. No registrant makes any representation as to information relating to any other registrant.
 
 
 
- 2 -
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. The signature for each undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to such company or its subsidiaries.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date: December 27, 2005
 
 
 
 
- 3 -
 
 
Exhibit Number:
 
 
Title:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 4 -

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
One Ameren Plaza    
1901 Chouteau          
 Avenue                      
St. Louis, MO 63103
Ameren News Release
Contacts:
Media:      
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
  
Analysts:                                       
Investors:
Susan Gallagher 
 
   
   
   
   
Leigh Morris                                       
Bruce Steinke                  
 
 
Investor Services
(314) 554-2175      
   
   
   
   
(217) 535-5228                                    
 
(314) 554-2574                                
invest@ameren.com
sgallagher@ameren.com                                 l
morris@ameren.com                          b
steinke@ameren.com
 
 
    
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
 
St. Louis, Dec. 27, 2005Ameren Corporations (NYSE: AEE) Illinois-based companies, doing business as AmerenCILCO, AmerenCIPS and AmerenIP, today submitted filings to the Illinois Commerce Commission (ICC) requesting approval for three separate electricity delivery service rate increases totaling approximately $200 million. Those increases would not take effect until January 2007. The companies expect a ruling from the ICC by mid-November 2006.
 
 The delivery service rate increase requests are related only to the costs that Amerens Illinois utilities incur to deliver electricitytypically about 20 to 30 percent of a customers total electric bill. The companies are proposing that, beginning in 2007, each electric customer of an Ameren Illinois utility company will pay a delivery services charge that is separate from the power supply component. Power may be supplied by the Ameren Illinois utility or a certified retail electric supplier. The companies proposed charges for the power component are the subject of a separate, pending ICC proceeding.
   
 
 To mitigate the impact of these requested increases on residential customers, AmerenCILCO and AmerenIP are proposing a two-year phase-in with the average residential delivery rates capped in the first year at 3.55 cents per kilowatt-hour. No phase-in is proposed for AmerenCIPS residential customers because its proposed rate is below this cap. If the ICC ultimately adopts the proposed phase-in plan, the proposals filed today call for a residential customer class increase in the first year over current bundled rates of 9.3% for AmerenIP, 1.6% for AmerenCIPS, and 9.8% for AmerenCILCO in 2007. (The current rates include both a delivery service charge and a power supply charge.) For a typical residential customer, consuming 866 kilowatt-hours per month, the proposed delivery services rate for 2007 would result in monthly increases of:
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Add One
 
 
 
 Assuming the ICCs approval of the full rate increase requests, residential delivery service rates in 2008 would go up by an additional 8.5 % for AmerenIP and 7.5 % for AmerenCILCO over the current bundled rates.
   
 
 The Ameren Illinois utilities have not had bundled electric service rate increases for periods ranging from 15 to 25 years. In addition, since 1997, all three companies have reduced their residential electricity rates from 5 percent to as much as 20 percent (SEE CHART THAT FOLLOWS). Since 1997, the Ameren Illinois companies have invested nearly $1.4 billion in infrastructure improvements to ensure reliable delivery of electricity.
   
 
 We are concerned about the impact higher delivery services rates will have on all of our customers. For residential customers, we will help with the phase-in plan and with payment options, like Budget Billing, which levels out monthly bill amounts. We also will work with customers who have difficulty paying their bills, helping them with payment arrangements as permitted by ICC rules. We understand that price increases impact a familys budget and business profitability, says President of Ameren Illinois Energy Delivery Scott Cisel.
   
 
 Todays rate increase requests are part of the Illinois electricity restructuring process. Since 1997, Ameren Illinois utilities bundled rates for residential customers have been reduced and frozen at those reduced levels under the Electric Service Customer Choice and Rate Relief Law. The residential rate cuts will have resulted in more than $1 billion in savings for Amerens Illinois electric consumers during the transition period that ends on January 1, 2007.
   
 
 Over those 15 to 25 years, prices for everything from milk to eggs to gasoline have jumped from 30 to 150 percent, while our prices have actually declined with rate reductions, says Cisel. Meanwhile, we have invested heavily in building and maintaining our transmission and distribution systems, while improving reliability across our region. We must adjust delivery service rates to continue investing in those systems to maintain reliability and to keep pace with the increased demand that comes with our service territorys growth. Amerens Illinois utilities are working hard to keep electricity costs as low as possible. 
   
 
 
 
 
Add Two
 
 Based in St. Louis, Ameren Corporation companies provide energy services to 3.2 million customers in a 64,000-square-mile area of Missouri and Illinois.
   
 
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
Statements made in this release, which are not based on historical facts, are forward-looking and, accordingly, involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed. Although such forward-looking statements have been made in good faith and are based on reasonable assumptions, there is no assurance that the expected results will be achieved. These statements include (without limitation) statements as to future expectations, beliefs, plans, strategies, objectives, events, conditions, and financial performance. In connection with the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Ameren Corporation, AmerenCILCO, AmerenCIPS and AmerenIP are providing this cautionary statement to identify important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. The factors discussed elsewhere in this release and these companies filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission could cause results to differ materially from management expectations, as suggested by such forward-looking statements.


