FILE:AEE/AEE-8K-20050915135531.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
SECTION 8 - OTHER EVENTS
 
ITEM 8.01 Other Events.
Reference is made to Note 3 - Rate and Regulatory Matters under Part I, Item 1. Financial Statements and to Outlook under Part I, Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of the combined Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2005 of registrant Ameren Corporation (Ameren) and its registrant subsidiaries for a discussion of the February 2005 filing made by Central Illinois Public Service Company, doing business as AmerenCIPS (CIPS), Central Illinois Light Company, doing business as AmerenCILCO (CILCO) and Illinois Power Company, doing business as AmerenIP (IP) (collectively, the Ameren Illinois Utilities) with the Illinois Commerce Commission (ICC) for approval of a proposed reverse auction process for procuring electric generation and a proposed rate mechanism to pass generation costs through to customers, to take effect after the current Illinois electric rate freeze expires on January 1, 2007 and electric supply contracts expire on December 31, 2006. As reported in the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2005, the ICC in July 2005 denied the interlocutory administrative appeal by the Illinois Attorney General, the Citizens Utility Board (CUB) and the Environmental Law and Policy Center (ELPC) of the administrative law judges ruling which rejected their motion to dismiss the Ameren Illinois Utilities proposed generation procurement auction process. Also as reported in the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2005, the Ameren Illinois Utilities in July 2005 filed supplemental testimony which modified certain aspects of their February proposal to address issues raised by the ICC staff and certain other intervenors. In addition, the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2005 reported that in 2005, Ameren will begin the process of preparing utility cost-of-service studies to be submitted to the ICC as the basis for its determination of electric delivery service rates for the Ameren Illinois Utilities to be effective after the current rate freeze expires.
On September 1, 2005, the Illinois Attorney General, the Cook County States Attorney, the CUB and the ELPC filed a two-count complaint in the Chancery Division of the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois against the ICC and the individual ICC commissioners (the Attorney Generals lawsuit). The first count asks that the defendants be required to show by what authority the ICC claims it could approve market-based rates for electric service that has not been declared competitive pursuant to Section 16-113 of the Illinois Public Utilities Act (PUA). The second count seeks a declaratory judgment that the ICC lacks authority to approve market-based rates
 
 
- 2 -
 
for electric service that has not been declared competitive pursuant to Section 16-113 of the PUA, and seeks injunctive relief prohibiting ICC approval of proposals by the Ameren Illinois Utilities and Commonwealth Edison Company that would impose market-based rates on customers who have electric service that has not been declared competitive pursuant to Section 16-113 of the PUA. The Ameren Illinois Utilities believe the claims are without merit and intend to vigorously oppose them. The legal argument underlying the Attorney Generals lawsuit is substantially similar to the legal argument presented to the administrative law judge, and to the ICC on interlocutory appeal, and rejected by both, in June and July 2005, respectively (as referred to above). On September 15, 2005, the Ameren Illinois Utilities filed their petition to intervene in the Attorney Generals lawsuit. If intervention is granted, the Ameren Illinois Utilities will deny the allegations in the complaint and seek a determination that the ICC has appropriate legal authority to approve the proposed electric generation procurement auction process pending before the ICC.
On September 2, 2005, Illinois Governor Blagojevich sent a letter to the ICC expressing his opposition to the Ameren Illinois Utilities proposed generation procurement auction process and requesting dismissal of the Ameren Illinois Utilities pending proceeding for approval of such process (the Governors letter). The Governors letter also stated his view that the ICC is without authority to approve the market-based rates for the procurement of power, including the reverse auction, until this service [ to the various markets for electricity, especially the residential market, ] has been declared . A copy of the Governors letter is included as Exhibit 99.1. On September 15, 2005, the Ameren Illinois Utilities responded to the Governors letter. A copy of the Ameren Illinois Utilities letter is included as Exhibit 99.2.
competitive
The Ameren Illinois Utilities, which own virtually no generation, presently purchase energy and capacity under wholesale power supply contracts that expire on December 31, 2006. Through 2006, CIPS power supply is provided by its affiliate, Ameren Energy Generating Company, CILCOs power supply is provided by its affiliate, AmerenEnergy Resources Generating Company and IPs power supply is provided by non-affiliated companies. Accordingly, the Ameren Illinois Utilities will have to enter into new wholesale supply arrangements in order to satisfy their retail service obligations under the PUA beginning January 1, 2007. The effective date of new supply arrangements will coincide with the expiration of the retail rate freeze under the Illinois Electric Service Customer Choice and Rate Relief Law of 1997. The rate mechanism to pass generation costs through to customers as proposed in the Ameren Illinois Utilities February 2005 filing with the ICC would provide for full and timely recovery of costs incurred under the new power supply agreements. In addition, the Ameren Illinois Utilities intend to file revised tariffs with the ICC in late 2005 that would modify their electric delivery service rates effective January 2, 2007. Electric delivery service rates recover the Ameren Illinois Utilities transmission and distribution costs associated with the delivery of electric power and energy to their retail customers.
Both the Governors letter and the Attorney Generals lawsuit assert that the energy component of the Ameren Illinois Utilities retail rates for electricity should not be based on their cost to procure energy and capacity in the wholesale market. We are unable to predict the ultimate outcome of the Attorney Generals lawsuit or the pending ICC proceeding (as affected by the Governors letter), the timing of the final decisions on such matters or the impact on our results of operations, financial position, or liquidity. However, any decision or action that impairs the ability of the Ameren Illinois Utilities to fully recover purchased power costs from their electric customers in a timely manner could result in material adverse consequences. As noted in the Ameren Illinois Utilities response letter to the Illinois Governor (Exhibit 99.2 hereto), these consequences could include a significant drop in credit ratings (potentially to below investment grade status), a loss of access to the capital markets, higher borrowing costs, higher power supply costs, an inability to make timely energy infrastructure investments, reduced customer service, job losses and financial insolvency.
In light of efforts to limit the Ameren Illinois Utilities ability to recover their costs, Ameren and the Ameren Illinois Utilities are petitioning to intervene in the Attorney Generals lawsuit and if granted, will oppose the positions taken by the filing parties, and will vigorously defend the Ameren Illinois Utilities proposed generation procurement auction process in proceedings before the ICC, as well as complete their delivery service rate case filings by year end, and defend those positions in later hearings, in an effort to ensure full recovery of the Ameren Illinois Utilities costs and avoid or mitigate the potential material adverse consequences disclosed above. In addition, Ameren and the Ameren Illinois Utilities will continue to explore a number of legal and regulatory actions, strategies and alternatives to address these issues. There can be no assurance that Ameren and the Ameren Illinois Utilities will prevail in opposition to the Attorney Generals lawsuit, the stated opposition by the Illinois Governor and other stakeholders, or
 
 
- 3 -
 
that the legal and regulatory actions, strategies and alternatives that Ameren and the Ameren Illinois Utilities are considering will be successful.
SECTION 9 - FINANCIALS STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits
 
    
Exhibit Number
   
   
 
Title
:
This combined Form 8-K is being filed separately by Ameren Corporation, Union Electric Company, Central Illinois Public Service Company, Ameren Energy Generating Company, CILCORP Inc., Central Illinois Light Company and Illinois Power Company (each a registrant). Information contained herein relating to any individual registrant has been filed by such registrant on its own behalf. No registrant makes any representation as to information relating to any other registrant.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. The signature for each undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to such company or its subsidiaries.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 4 -
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date:  September 15, 2005
 
 
- 5 -
 
 
Exhibit Number:
    
   
   
   
Title:
 
 dated September 2, 2005
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 6 -

Exhibit 99.1
 
Rod R. Blagojevich
Governor
September 2, 2005
Dear Commissioners,
I have been closely following the developments of AmerenCILCOs, AmerenCIPSs, and AmerenIPs (Amerens) proposal before the Illinois Commerce Commission (ICC)
to approve a procurement process (in this instance, a reverse auction has been
proposed) that will result in the purchase of wholesale power at market-based prices
(consolidated docket numbers 05-0160, 05-0161, 05-0162). Please make this document
available to all parties to this proceeding and make it a part of the record of the
consolidated dockets as the position of an interested party.
The road towards deregulation of the electric industry began in 1997 with amendments to
the Public Utilities Act (PUA). Deregulation is based upon the predicate that
regulation is unnecessary in a competitive market. A competitive market will drive down
retail rates and make regulation unnecessary. However, in 2001, this transition period
was extended because competition had not yet developed. To date, this competition has
still not yet developed for most markets especially the market for residential ratepayers.
Therefore, the principles of deregulation have not been achieved.
The PUA only authorizes the Commission to approve market-based rates for customers
who take electric service that has been declared competitive pursuant to Section 16-113
of the Act. Rate increases are unjustified and the ICC is without authority to approve the
market-based rates for the procurement of power, including the reverse auction, until this
service has been declared competitive.
I appointed members of the Commission to protect the consumer. It is your job to ensure
that rates remain just and reasonable, and to reject filings that circumvent the law or the
intention of the law. I consider an approval of a reverse auction procurement process of
market-based rates for wholesale power either a serious neglect of duty or gross
incompetence by the ICC.
I will take whatever action is necessary to protect the public and ensure that the law is
followed. Unless and until a competitive market develops, the request for higher rates
must be rejected.
 
Therefore, I urge you to uphold your duty to properly apply the law, protect Illinois
consumers, and refuse to abandon the long-standing consumer protections provided by
the PUA. I request that you dismiss Amerens request for approval of the market-based
rates of a reverse auction requested in the consolidated dockets 05-0160, 05-0161, and
05-0162 and any current or future filing authorizing a reverse auction or any similar
procurement process. I urge you to declare that competition does not exist in the
residential
market and therefore refuse to approve any retail rate filing or tariff that
utilizes any such procurement process.
Sincerely,

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
 
  September 15, 2005
           
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
The Honorable Rod R. Blagojevich
Governor
State of Illinois
James R. Thompson Center
100 W. Randolph, Floor 16
Chicago, IL 60601
Dear Governor Blagojevich:
The management of Central Illinois Light Company d/b/a AmerenCILCO, Central Illinois Public Service Company d/b/a AmerenCIPS and Illinois Power Company d/b/a AmerenIP (the "Ameren Illinois Utilities") read with great dismay your letter of September 2, 2005 to the members of the Illinois Commerce Commission ("ICC") in which you requested them to dismiss the Ameren Illinois Utilities' pending competitive procurement dockets, and stated your view that the ICC is without authority to approve the market-based rates for the procurement of power, including the reverse auction, until this service [to the various markets for electricity, especially the residential market,] has been declared competitive. In order to have a constructive dialogue around this important energy policy issue, we believe it is important that you have a complete understanding of our views regarding your request as it pertains to the law, the facts and sound regulatory and public policy matters. We remain willing to work with all stakeholders to fashion a means of addressing the impacts of the expiration of a decade-long rate reduction and rate freeze in a constructive manner, but we do not believe that the process is enhanced by a proposal that could result in a California-style meltdown in the Illinois electric sector.
At the outset, we believe it is important to point out that the ICC cannot validly dismiss the Ameren Illinois Utilities' pending proceeding without some basis in law, and it has already found, properly, that there is no legal basis for dismissing the case. Notably, the Ameren Illinois Utilities are obligated by law to provide electricity to their customers. Under the Ameren Illinois Utilities proposal, they will lawfully purchase this electricity from wholesale suppliers at a price determined by the competitive procurement auction, which amount represents their actual cost of procuring such electricity. The law requires that the Ameren Illinois Utilities be permitted to recover their actual cost of providing electric service to their customers.
 
The ICC is bound to follow the law and issue a decision based on the substantial weight of the evidence. We strongly believe, as do many others participating in this
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Honorable Rod R. Blagojevich
September 15, 2005
Page 2
 
 
case, that the evidence will show that the Ameren Illinois Utilities' proposal is valid, workable and will produce the least-cost power for our customers.
We would also like to share several important facts with you. First, by 2007, our utilities will have experienced periods ranging from nearly 15 to 25 years during which their bundled electric rates have either not changed or declined. As a result, today the Ameren Illinois Utilities bundled residential electric rates are, on average, 17% below the national average. Given the significant increases in the cost of energy commodities, employee medical benefits and other operating costs during this time period, few utility companies in the country can make similar claims. These facts are, in large part, attributable to the success of deregulation in Illinois. Since the 1997 Restructuring Act was enacted, we estimate that our Illinois residential customers will have saved nearly $1 billion through 2006. However, over the past 15 to 25 years, our utilities have made substantial infrastructure investments and have experienced significant increases in operating costs. In order for our companies to continue to make the necessary infrastructure investments in our businesses going forward, as well as continue to provide well paying jobs and employee benefits for our workforce, we need to recover these additional costs in order to remain viable.
Second, the Ameren Illinois Utilities own virtually no generation and our existing supply contracts expire at the end of 2006. Accordingly, if the lights are to remain on come January, 2007, we need to purchase power somewhere, from someone. Last year, many stakeholders participated in numerous workshops to consider the best method for us to procure this power. The method that received most support, by far, was the reverse auction process. That process is fair, transparent, tested and will render the lowest cost power for customers. It will not boost our profits - we seek only to recover our costs of acquiring supply in the wholesale market - not a penny more and not a penny less.
Third, we cannot turn to affiliates for power supply at below-market prices. Our affiliates have only enough generation to supply about half of our Illinois distribution load, and cannot sell what they have to us at prices below market under Federal Energy Regulatory Commission standards. Moreover, by law, our distribution companies cannot subsidize a generator's operations, and a generator cannot be required to subsidize us.
Fourth, we believe it is important to recall that on two occasions in recent years, Ameren has purchased and essentially rescued two troubled Illinois utilities: AmerenCILCO, whose credit ratings were low investment grade, and whose service quality was the subject of an ICC investigation; and AmerenIP, which was saddled by overwhelming debt and a junk (below investment grade) status credit rating. We have restored AmerenCILCOs credit ratings and service to a high level, and we have invested nearly a billion dollars in equity in AmerenIP to reduce its crushing debt, restore it to an investment grade credit rating status, protect Illinois jobs and end all
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Honorable Rod R. Blagojevich
September 15, 2005
Page 3
 
 
talk of bankruptcy. At the same time, we have meaningfully increased the level of energy infrastructure investments in these entities. We find it hard to believe that it is sound public policy to take several steps backwards in the rebuilding of these important Illinois companies.
Fifth, any action that impairs the ability of the Ameren Illinois Utilities to recover, in a timely fashion, our single largest cost - purchased power - could result in a host of adverse consequences. Those consequences include a significant drop in credit ratings (potentially to below investment grade status), a loss of access to the capital markets, and higher borrowing and power supply costs. As we learned in California (and with AmerenIP), suppliers sell power to a poor credit risk at a higher price than the price they will sell to a good credit risk. Other adverse consequences could include the inability to make timely energy infrastructure investments, reduced customer service, job losses and financial insolvency. As California learned, the hard way, consumers and taxpayers had to foot the bill. Certainly, this is not a road that the State of Illinois wishes to proceed down. No one wins.
Lastly, denying the Ameren Illinois Utilities full and timely recovery of our legitimately incurred power supply costs would be unlawful under the Constitutions of the United States and Illinois. This would needlessly create a number of legal issues, and potentially protracted litigation, that would not benefit stakeholders.
 
Governor Blagojevich, our objective all along has been to present a viable, long-term energy solution for our customers that produces the least cost option that is consistent with state and federal laws and reflects sound public, economic and regulatory policy. We are certain that you and other key stakeholders in the process share this objective. We look forward to engaging in further dialogue with you and other key stakeholders to find a constructive solution to this important matter.
 
  Sincerely,
           
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
cc: 
   
Senate President Emil Jones, Jr.
Speaker of the House Michael J. Madigan
ICC Chairman C. Edward Hurley
ICC Commissioner Kevin Wright
ICC Commissioner Lula Ford
ICC Commissioner Erin O'Connell-Diaz
ICC Commissioner Robert Lieberman




