FILE:AEE/AEE-8K-20060216161109.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
SECTION 1 - REGISTRANTS BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS
 
ITEM 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
 On February 10, 2006, the Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors of Ameren Corporation (Ameren) and the Board of Directors of Ameren took the following actions:
   
 
 
 - 2 -
 
 
 
 
- 3 -
 
 
The Amended and Restated Ameren Change of Control Severance Plan, is attached as Exhibit 10.5 and is
 
incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 4 -
 
SECTION 9 -
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
This combined Form 8-K is being filed separately by Ameren Corporation, Union Electric Company, Central Illinois Public Service Company, Ameren Energy Generating Company, CILCORP Inc., Central Illinois Light Company and Illinois Power Company (each a registrant). Information contained herein relating to any individual registrant has been filed by such registrant on its own behalf. No registrant makes any representation as to information relating to any other registrant.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. The signature for each undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to such company or its subsidiaries.
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 5 -
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date: February 16, 2006
 
 
 
- 6 -
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 7 -
 

 
Exhibit 10.1
 
* Subject to approval by shareholders at Amerens 2006 annual meeting.

 
Exhibit 10.2
 
 
SUMMARY
The Ameren Executive Incentive Plan (EIP) is intended to reward Officers for their contributions to Amerens success. The EIP is funded based on earnings per share (EPS) performance, and rewards leaders on corporate EPS performance and individual performance. The plan is approved by the Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors.
EIP ELIGIBILITY
All Officers who are actively employed on December 31, 2006 are eligible to participate in the Executive Incentive Plan pursuant to the terms described herein. Additionally, Officers who retire, decease, become disabled during 2006 (the plan year), or whose employment is involuntarily terminated as a result of a reduction in force, elimination of position, or change in strategic demand are eligible to participate in the EIP pursuant to the terms described herein.
Officers who voluntarily terminate employment, for reasons other than retirement, death or disability during the plan year or following the plan year, but before awards are paid, forfeit participation in the EIP. Additionally, Officers who are involuntarily terminated for any reason other than a reduction in force, elimination of a position, or change in strategic demand, during the plan year or following the plan year, but before awards are paid, forfeit participation in the EIP.
EIP FUNDING
EIP funding is the total amount of incentive money available for award to employees. The EIP is funded based on the achievement of Ameren Corporations earnings per share (EPS) for the plan year (achievement levels may be adjusted to reflect refunds and rate changes under regulatory sharing plans or other extraordinary one-time events).
Three levels of EPS achievement will be established to reward eligible employees for progress achieved in overall EPS performance. Achievement of EPS falling between the established levels will be interpolated. The three levels are defined as:
AWARD OPPORTUNITIES
Award opportunity percentages are set by the Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors. Officers will receive specific communications regarding their incentive target opportunity.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PERFORMANCE COMPONENT WEIGHTINGS
The EIP includes two performance award components: EPS performance and individual performance. The performance award components are the measures used to determine an award payment. Each component is weighted. This weight indicates how much of the available funding will be available for each component.
The weightings for the 2006 plan are:
EPS    
   
   
   
   
   
50%
Business Line KPIs/Individual 
   
50%
EPS
:
This component is the corporate level of measurement; Amerens earnings per share achievement. Fifty percent of the available bonus funds will be available for payment to each officer based on corporate success.
Business Line/Individual
:
Each officer will have 50% of their available bonus determined by their personal contributions to business performance as assessed by the officer to whom they report.
EIP PAYOUT
Awards will be paid by March 15
th
, 2007. The award opportunity is based on the officers salary as of December 31, 2006 (or upon the officers salary at the time of retirement, death or disability). Awards will be prorated based on the amount of time worked during the plan year for eligible employees who: 1) are hired after the plan year begins; 2) retire during the plan year; 3) decease during the plan year; 4) become disabled during the plan year; or 5) are involuntarily terminated during the plan year as a result of a reduction in force, elimination of position, or change in strategic demand.
The Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors will approve the final amount of payment upon recommendation of the CEO of Ameren Corporation.
CONTACT
Questions regarding this plan may be directed to the Managing Supervisor, Compensation & Performance at (314) 554-2049.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.3
 
 
                 Ameren Corporation
   
                 2006 Omnibus Incentive Compensation
   
                 Plan
   
 
                 Effective May 2, 2006
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ameren Corporation
2006 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan
Article 1. Establishment, Purpose, and Duration
1.1
 
Establishment
.
 
Ameren Corporation, a Missouri corporation (hereinafter referred to as the Company), establishes an incentive compensation plan to be known as the Ameren Corporation 2006 Omnibus Incentive
 
Compensation
 
Plan (hereinafter referred to as the Plan), as set forth in this document.
 
This Plan permits the grant of Nonqualified Stock Options, Incentive Stock Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, Performance Shares, Performance Units, Cash-Based Awards and Other Stock-Based Awards.
 
This Plan shall become effective upon shareholder approval (the Effective Date) and shall remain in effect as provided in Section 1.3 hereof. The Company may make contingent Awards before the Effective Date, provided that the vesting, exercise, or payment of such Awards is expressly conditioned on shareholder approval and the Awards are forfeited if shareholders do not approve the Plan.
 
1.2
 
Purpose of this Plan
.
The purpose of this Plan is to provide a means whereby Employees and Directors of the Company develop a sense of proprietorship and personal involvement in the development and financial success of the Company, and to encourage them to devote their best efforts to the business of the Company, thereby advancing the interests of the Company and its shareholders. A further purpose of this Plan is to provide a means through which the Company may attract able individuals to become Employees or serve as Directors of the Company.
 
1.3
 
Duration of this Plan
. Unless sooner terminated as provided herein, this Plan shall terminate ten (10) years from the Effective Date. After this Plan is terminated, no Awards may be granted but Awards previously granted shall remain outstanding in accordance with their applicable terms and conditions and this Plans terms and conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Incentive Stock Options may be granted more than ten (10) years after the earlier of (a) adoption of this Plan by the Board, or (b) the Effective Date.
 
Article 2. Definitions
Whenever used in this Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below, and when the meaning is intended, the initial letter of the word shall be capitalized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
 
 
Article 3. Administration
3.1
 
General
. The Committee shall be responsible for administering this Plan, subject to this Article 3 and the other provisions of this Plan. The Committee may employ attorneys, consultants, accountants, agents, and other individuals, any of whom may be an Employee, and the Committee, the Company, and its officers and Directors shall be entitled to rely upon the advice, opinions, or valuations of any such individuals. All actions taken and all interpretations and determinations made by the Committee shall be final and binding upon the Participants, the Company, and all other interested individuals.
 
3.2
 
Authority of the Committee
. The Committee shall have full discretionary power to interpret the terms and the intent of this Plan and any Award Agreement or other agreement or document ancillary to or in connection with this Plan, to determine eligibility for Awards and to adopt such rules, regulations, forms, instruments, and guidelines for administering this Plan as the Committee may deem necessary or proper. Such authority shall include, but not be limited to, selecting Award recipients, establishing all Award terms and conditions, including the terms and conditions set forth in Award Agreements, granting Awards as an alternative to or as the form of payment for grants or rights earned or due under compensation plans or arrangements of the Company, construing any ambiguous provision of the Plan or any Award Agreement, and, subject to Article 18, adopting modifications and amendments to this Plan or any Award Agreement, including without limitation, any that are necessary to comply with the laws of the countries and other jurisdictions in which the Company, its Affiliates, and/or its Subsidiaries operate.
 
3.3
 
Delegation.
The Committee may delegate to one or more of its members or to one or more officers of the Company, and/or its Subsidiaries and Affiliates or to one or more agents or advisors such administrative duties or powers as it may deem advisable, and the Committee or any individuals to whom it has delegated duties or powers as aforesaid may employ one or more individuals to render advice with respect to any responsibility the Committee or such individuals may have under this Plan. The Committee may, by resolution, authorize one or more officers of the Company to do one or both of the following on the same basis as can the Committee: (a) designate Employees to be recipients of Awards; and (b) determine the size of any such Awards; provided, however, (i) the Committee shall not delegate such responsibilities to any such officer for Awards granted to an Employee who is, on the relevant date, a Covered Employee, or an officer, Director, or more than ten percent (10%) beneficial owner of the Company for purposes of Section 16 of the Exchange Act; (ii) the resolution providing such authorization sets forth the total number of Awards such officer(s) may grant; and (iii) the officer(s) shall report periodically to the Committee regarding the nature and scope of the Awards granted pursuant to the authority delegated.
 
 
 
5
 
 
Article 4. Shares Subject to this Plan and Maximum Awards
4.1
 
Number of Shares Available for Awards
.
 
 
 
 
4.2
 
Share Usage.
Shares covered by an Award shall be counted as used only to the extent they are actually issued; however, the full number of shares covered by Stock Appreciation Rights granted that are to be settled by the issuance of Shares shall be counted against the number of Shares available for award under the Plan, regardless of the number of Shares actually issued upon settlement of such Stock Appreciation Rights. Any Shares related to Awards which terminate by expiration, forfeiture, cancellation, or otherwise without the issuance of such Shares, are settled in cash in lieu of Shares, or are exchanged with the Committees permission, prior to the issuance of Shares, for Awards not involving Shares, shall be available again for grant under this Plan. The Shares available for issuance under this Plan may be authorized and unissued Shares or treasury Shares.
 
4.3
 
Annual Award Limits.
Unless and until the Committee determines that an Award to a Covered Employee shall not be designed to qualify as Performance-Based Compensation, the following limits (each an Annual Award Limit and, collectively, Annual Award Limits) shall apply to grants of Awards under this Plan:
 
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
 
4.4
 
Adjustments in Authorized Shares
. In the event of any corporate event or transaction (including, but not limited to, a change in the Shares of the Company or the capitalization of the Company) such as a merger, consolidation, reorganization, recapitalization, separation, partial or complete liquidation, stock dividend, stock split, reverse stock split, split up, spin-off, or other distribution of stock or property of the Company, combination of Shares, exchange of Shares, dividend in kind, or other like change in capital structure, number of outstanding Shares or distribution (other than normal cash dividends) to shareholders of the Company, or any similar corporate event or transaction, or in the event of unusual or nonrecurring events affecting the Company or the financial statements of the Company or of changes in applicable laws, regulations, or accounting principles, the Committee, in its sole discretion, in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of Participants rights under this Plan, shall substitute or adjust, as applicable, the number and kind of Shares that may be issued under this Plan or under particular forms of Awards, the number and kind of Shares subject to outstanding Awards, the Option Price or Grant Price applicable to outstanding Awards, the Annual Award Limits, and other value determinations applicable to outstanding Awards.
 
The Committee, in its sole discretion, may also make appropriate adjustments in the terms of any Awards under this Plan to reflect, or related to, such changes or distributions and to modify any other terms of outstanding Awards, including modifications of performance goals and changes in the length of Performance Periods. The Committee shall not make any adjustment pursuant to this Section 4.4 that would prevent Performance-Based Compensation from satisfying the requirements of Code Section 162(m); that would cause an Award that is otherwise exempt from Code Section 409A to become subject to Section 409A, or that would cause an Award that is subject to Code Section 409A to fail to satisfy the requirements of Section 409A. The determination of the Committee as to the foregoing adjustments, if any, shall be conclusive and binding on Participants under this Plan.
 
 Subject to the provisions of Article 18 and notwithstanding anything else herein to the contrary, without affecting the number of Shares reserved or available hereunder, the Committee may authorize the issuance or assumption of benefits under this Plan in connection with any merger, consolidation, acquisition of property or stock, or reorganization upon such terms and conditions as it may deem appropriate (including, but not limited to, a conversion of equity awards into Awards
   
 
 
7
 
 
under this Plan in a manner consistent with paragraph 53 of FASB Interpretation No. 44), subject to compliance with the rules under Code Sections 409A, 422, and 424, as and where applicable.
 
Article 5. Eligibility and Participation
5.1
 
Eligibility
. Individuals eligible to participate in this Plan include all Employees and Directors.
 
5.2
 
Actual Participation
. Subject to the provisions of this Plan, the Committee may, from time to time, select from all eligible individuals, those individuals to whom Awards shall be granted and shall determine, in its sole discretion, the nature of any and all terms permissible by law, and the amount of each Award.
 
Article 6. Stock Options
6.1
 
Grant of Options
. Subject to the terms and provisions of this Plan, Options may be granted to Participants in such number, and upon such terms, and at any time and from time to time as shall be determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion
;
provided that ISOs may be granted only to eligible Employees of the Company or of any parent or subsidiary corporation (as permitted under Code Sections 422 and 424
)
.
 
6.2
 
Award Agreement
. Each Option grant shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify the Option Price, the maximum duration of the Option, the number of Shares to which the Option pertains, the conditions upon which an Option shall become vested and exercisable, and such other provisions as the Committee shall determine which are not inconsistent with the terms of this Plan. The Award Agreement also shall specify whether the Option is intended to be an ISO or a NQSO.
 
6.3
 
Option Price
. The Option Price for each grant of an Option under this Plan shall be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion and shall be specified in the Award Agreement; provided, however, the Option Price must be at least equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the FMV of the Shares as determined on the date of grant.
 
6.4
 
Term of Options
. Each Option granted to a Participant shall expire at such time as the Committee shall determine and set forth in the Award Agreement at the time of grant; provided, however, no Option shall be exercisable later than the tenth (10
th
) anniversary date of its grant. Notwithstanding the foregoing, for Nonqualified Stock Options granted to Participants outside the United States, the Committee has the authority to grant Nonqualified Stock Options that have a term greater than ten (10) years.
 
6.5
 
Exercise of Options
. Options granted under this Article 6 shall be exercisable at such times and be subject to such restrictions and conditions as the Committee shall in each instance approve, which terms and restrictions need not be the same for each grant or for each Participant.
 
 6.6
   
 
Payment
. Options granted under this Article 6 shall be exercised by the delivery of a notice of exercise to the Company or an agent designated by the Company in a form specified or accepted by the Committee, or by complying with any alternative procedures which may be authorized by the Committee, setting forth the number of Shares with respect to which the Option is
 
 
8
 
to be exercised, accompanied by full payment for the Shares. The Shares shall become the property of the Participant on the exercise date, subject to any forfeiture conditions specified in the Option.
 
A condition of the issuance of the Shares as to which an Option shall be exercised shall be the payment of the Option Price at the time of the exercise. The Option Price of any Option shall be payable to the Company in full either: (a) in cash or its equivalent; (b) by tendering (either by actual delivery or attestation) previously acquired Shares having an aggregate Fair Market Value at the time of exercise equal to the Option Price (provided that except as otherwise determined by the Committee, the Shares that are tendered must have been held by the Participant for at least six (6) months (or such other period, if any, as the Committee may permit) prior to their tender to satisfy the Option Price if acquired under this Plan or any other compensation plan maintained by the Company or have been purchased on the open market); (c) by a cashless (broker-assisted) exercise; (d) by a combination of (a), (b) and/or (c); or (e) any other method approved or accepted by the Committee in its sole discretion.
 
Subject to any governing rules or regulations, as soon as practicable after receipt of written notification of exercise and full payment (including satisfaction of any applicable tax withholding), the Company shall deliver to the Participant a statement of holdings as evidence of book entry uncertificated Shares, or at the sole discretion of the Committee upon the Participants request, Share certificates in an appropriate amount based upon the number of Shares purchased under the Option(s).
 
Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, all payments under all of the methods indicated above shall be paid in United States dollars.
 
6.7
 
Restrictions on Share Transferability
. The Committee may impose such restrictions on any Shares acquired pursuant to the exercise of an Option granted under this Article 6 as it may deem advisable, including, without limitation, minimum holding period requirements, restrictions under applicable federal securities laws, under the requirements of any stock exchange or market upon which such Shares are then listed and/or traded, or under any blue sky or state securities laws applicable to such Shares.
 
6.8
 
Termination of Employment
.
 
Each Participants Award Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to exercise the Option following termination of the Participants employment or provision of services to the Company, its Affiliates, and/or its Subsidiaries, as the case may be. Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, shall be included in the Award Agreement entered into with each Participant, need not be uniform among all Options issued pursuant to this Article 6, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination.
 
Article 7. Stock Appreciation Rights
7.1
 
Grant of SARs
. Subject to the terms and conditions of this Plan, SARs may be granted to Participants at any time and from time to time as shall be determined by the Committee.
 
 Subject to the terms and conditions of this Plan, the Committee shall have complete discretion in determining the number of SARs granted to each Participant and, consistent with the provisions of this Plan, in determining the terms and conditions pertaining to such SARs.
   
 
 
9
 
 
 
The Grant Price for each grant of an SAR shall be determined by the Committee and shall be specified in the Award Agreement; provided, however, the Grant Price on the date of grant must be at least equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the FMV of the Shares as determined on the date of grant.
 
7.2
 
SAR Agreement
. Each SAR Award shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify the Grant Price, the term of the SAR, and such other provisions as the Committee shall determine.
 
7.3
 
Term of SAR
. The term of an SAR granted under this Plan shall be determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion, and set forth in the Award Agreement at the time of grant. Except as determined otherwise by the Committee and specified in the SAR Award Agreement, no SAR shall be exercisable later than the tenth (10
th
) anniversary date of its grant.
 
7.4
 
Exercise of SARs
. SARs may be exercised upon whatever terms and conditions the Committee, in its sole discretion, imposes.
 
7.5
 
Settlement of SARs
. Upon the exercise of an SAR, a Participant shall be entitled to receive payment from the Company on the exercise date in an amount determined by multiplying:
 
 
 
At the discretion of the Committee, the payment upon SAR exercise may be in cash, Shares, or any combination thereof, or in any other manner approved by the Committee in its sole discretion. The Committees determination regarding the form of SAR payout shall be set forth in the Award Agreement pertaining to the grant of the SAR.
 
7.6
 
Termination of Employment
. Each Award Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to exercise the SAR following termination of the Participants employment with or provision of services to the Company, its Affiliates, and/or its Subsidiaries, as the case may be. Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, shall be included in the Award Agreement entered into with Participants, need not be uniform among all SARs issued pursuant to this Plan, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination.
 
7.7
 
Other Restrictions.
The Committee shall impose such other conditions and/or restrictions on any Shares received upon exercise of an SAR granted pursuant to this Plan as it may deem advisable or desirable. These restrictions may include, but shall not be limited to, a requirement that the Participant hold the Shares received upon exercise of an SAR for a specified period of time.
 
Article 8. Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units
8.1
 
Grant of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units
. Subject to the terms and provisions of this Plan, the Committee, at any time and from time to time, may grant Shares of Restricted Stock and/or Restricted Stock Units to Participants in such amounts as the Committee
 
 
10
 
 
shall determine. Restricted Stock Units shall be similar to Restricted Stock except that no Shares are actually awarded to the Participant on the date of grant.
 
8.2
 
Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Unit Agreement
. Each Restricted Stock and/or Restricted Stock Unit grant shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify the Period(s) of Restriction, the number of Shares of Restricted Stock or the number of Restricted Stock Units granted, and such other provisions as the Committee shall determine.
 
8.3
 
Other Restrictions
. The Committee shall impose such other conditions and/or restrictions on any Shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to this Plan as it may deem advisable including, without limitation, a requirement that Participants pay a stipulated purchase price for each Share of Restricted Stock or each Restricted Stock Unit, restrictions based upon the achievement of specific performance goals, time-based restrictions on vesting following the attainment of the performance goals, time-based restrictions, and/or restrictions under applicable laws or under the requirements of any stock exchange or market upon which such Shares are listed or traded, or holding requirements or sale restrictions placed on the Shares by the Company upon vesting of such Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units.
 
To the extent deemed appropriate by the Committee, the Company may retain any certificates or statements of holdings representing Shares of Restricted Stock in the Companys possession until such time as all conditions and/or restrictions applicable to such Shares have been satisfied or lapse.
 
Except as otherwise provided in this Article 8, Shares of Restricted Stock covered by each Restricted Stock Award shall become freely transferable by the Participant after all conditions and restrictions applicable to such Shares have been satisfied or lapse (including satisfaction of any applicable tax withholding obligations), and Restricted Stock Units shall be paid in cash, Shares, or a combination of cash and Shares as the Committee, in its sole discretion shall determine.
 
8.4
 
Certificate Legend
. In addition to any legends placed on certificates or statements of holdings pursuant to Section 8.3, each certificate or statement of holdings representing Shares of Restricted Stock granted pursuant to this Plan may bear a legend such as the following or as otherwise determined by the Committee in its sole discretion:
 
The sale or transfer of Shares of stock represented by this certificate or statement of holdings, whether voluntary, involuntary, or by operation of law, is subject to certain restrictions on transfer as set forth in the Ameren Corporation 2006 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan, and in the associated Award Agreement. A copy of the Plan and such Award Agreement may be obtained from Ameren Corporation.
 
8.5
 
Voting Rights
. Unless otherwise determined by the Committee and set forth in a Participants Award Agreement, to the extent permitted or required by law, as determined by the Committee, Participants holding Shares of Restricted Stock granted hereunder may be granted the
right to exercise full voting rights with respect to those Shares during the Period of Restriction. A Participant shall have no voting rights with respect to any Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder.
 
8.6
 
Termination of Employment
. Each Award Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to retain Restricted Stock and/or Restricted Stock Units following termination of the Participants employment with or provision of services to the Company, its
 
 
 
11
 
 
Affiliates, and/or its Subsidiaries, as the case may be. Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, shall be included in the Award Agreement entered into with each Participant, need not be uniform among all Shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units issued pursuant to this Plan, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination.
 
8.7
 
Section 83(b) Election
. The Committee may provide in an Award Agreement that the Award of Restricted Stock is conditioned upon the Participant making or refraining from making an election with respect to the Award under Code Section 83(b). If a Participant makes an election pursuant to Code Section 83(b) concerning a Restricted Stock Award, the Participant shall be required to file promptly a copy of such election with the Company.
 
Article 9. Performance Units/Performance Shares
9.1
 
Grant of Performance Units/Performance Shares
. Subject to the terms and provisions of this Plan, the Committee, at any time and from time to time, may grant Performance Units and/or Performance Shares to Participants in such amounts and upon such terms as the Committee shall determine.
 
9.2
 
Value of Performance Units/Performance Shares
. Each Performance Unit shall have an initial value that is established by the Committee at the time of grant. Each Performance Share shall have an initial value equal to the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of grant. The Committee shall set performance goals in its discretion which, depending on the extent to which they are met, will determine the value and/or number of Performance Units/Performance Shares that will be paid out to the Participant.
 
9.3
 
Earning of Performance Units/Performance Shares
. Subject to the terms of this Plan, after the applicable Performance Period has ended, the holder of Performance Units/Performance Shares shall be entitled to receive payout as provided in Section 9.4 on the value and number of Performance Units/Performance Shares earned by the Participant over the Performance Period, to be determined as a function of the extent to which the corresponding performance goals have been achieved. Regardless of the level of performance achieved, in no event will the number of Shares issued (or the amount of cash paid) with respect to a Performance Unit/Performance Share exceed two and one-half Shares (or the value of two and one-half Shares).
 
9.4
 
Form and Timing of Payment of Performance Units/Performance Shares
. Payment of earned Performance Units/Performance Shares shall be as determined by the Committee and as evidenced in the Award Agreement. Subject to the terms of this Plan, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may pay earned Performance Units/Performance Shares in the form of cash or in Shares (or in a combination thereof) equal to the value of the earned Performance Units/Performance Shares at the close of the applicable Performance Period, or as soon as practicable after the end of the Performance Period. Any Shares may be granted subject to any restrictions deemed appropriate by
the Committee. The determination of the Committee with respect to the form of payout of such Awards shall be set forth in the Award Agreement pertaining to the grant of the Award.
 
9.5
 
Termination of Employment
. Each Award Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to retain Performance Units and/or Performance Shares following termination of the Participants employment with or provision of services to the Company, its Affiliates, and/or its Subsidiaries, as the case may be. Such provisions shall be determined in the sole
 
 
 
12
 
 
discretion of the Committee, shall be included in the Award Agreement entered into with each Participant, need not be uniform among all Awards of Performance Units or Performance Shares issued pursuant to this Plan, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination.
 
Article 10. Cash-Based Awards and Other Stock-Based Awards
10.1
 
Grant of Cash-Based Awards
. Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan, the Committee, at any time and from time to time, may grant Cash-Based Awards to Participants in such amounts and upon such terms as the Committee may determine.
 
10.2
 
Other Stock-Based Awards
. The Committee may grant other types of equity-based or equity-related Awards not otherwise described by the terms of this Plan (including the grant or offer for sale of unrestricted Shares) in such amounts and subject to such terms and conditions as the Committee shall determine. Such Awards may involve the transfer of actual Shares to Participants, or payment in cash or otherwise of amounts based on the value of Shares and may include, without limitation, Awards designed to comply with or take advantage of the applicable local laws of jurisdictions other than the United States.
 
10.3
 
Value of Cash-Based and Other Stock-Based Awards
. Each Cash-Based Award shall specify a payment amount or payment range as determined by the Committee. Each Other Stock-Based Award shall be expressed in terms of Shares or units based on Shares, as determined by the Committee. The Committee may establish performance goals in its discretion. If the Committee exercises its discretion to establish performance goals, the number and/or value of Cash-Based Awards or Other Stock-Based Awards that will be paid out to the Participant will depend on the extent to which the performance goals are met.
 
10.4
 
Payment of Cash-Based Awards and Other Stock-Based Awards
. Payment, if any, with respect to a Cash-Based Award or an Other Stock-Based Award shall be made in accordance with the terms of the Award, in cash or Shares as the Committee determines.
 
10.5
 
Termination of Employment
. The Committee shall determine the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to receive Cash-Based Awards or Other Stock-Based Awards following termination of the Participants employment with or provision of services to the Company, its Affiliates, and/or its Subsidiaries, as the case may be. Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee. Such provisions may be included in the Award Agreement, but need not be uniform among all Awards of Cash-Based Awards or
 
Other Stock-Based Awards issued pursuant to the Plan, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination.
 
Article 11. Transferability of Awards
11.1
 
Transferability.
Except as provided in Section 11.2 below, during a Participants lifetime, his or her Awards shall be exercisable only by the Participant. Awards shall not be transferable other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution; no Awards shall be subject, in whole or in part, to attachment, execution, or levy of any kind; and any purported transfer in violation hereof shall be null and void. The Committee may establish such procedures as it deems appropriate for a Participant to designate a beneficiary to whom any amounts payable or Shares deliverable in the event of, or following, the Participants death, may be provided.
 
 
 
13
 
 
 11.2
   
 
Committee Action.
The Committee may, in its discretion, determine that notwithstanding Section 11.1, any or all Awards (other than ISOs) shall be transferable to and exercisable by such transferees, and subject to such terms and conditions, as the Committee may deem appropriate; provided, however, no Award may be transferred for value (as defined in the General Instructions to Form S-8 Registration Statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended).
 
Article 12. Performance Measures
12.1
 
Performance Goals.
If an Award (other than an Option or SAR) is intended to qualify as Performance-Based Compensation, the Award shall vest or be paid solely on account of the attainment of an objective performance goal based on one or more of the Performance Measures listed in Section 12.2. The Committee shall establish the performance goal in writing not later than ninety (90) days after the commencement of the Performance Period (or, if earlier, before twenty-five percent (25%) of the Performance Period has elapsed), and at a time when the outcome of the performance goal is still substantially uncertain. The performance goal shall state, in terms of an objective formula or standard, the method for determining the amount of compensation payable to the Participant if the performance goal is attained.
 
12.2
 
Performance Measures.
The Performance Measures used to establish performance goals for Performance-Based Compensation shall be limited to (a) net earnings or net income (before or after taxes); (b) earnings per share; (c) net sales or revenue growth; (d) net operating profit; (e) return measures (including, but not limited to, return on assets, capital, invested capital, equity, sales, or revenue); (f) cash flow (including, but not limited to, operating cash flow, free cash flow, cash flow return on equity, and cash flow return on investment); (g) earnings before or after taxes, interest, depreciation, and/or amortization; (h) gross or operating margins; (i) gross revenue; (j) productivity ratios; (k) share price (including, but not limited to, growth measures); (l) expense targets; (m) margins; (n) operating efficiency; (o) capacity utilization; (p) increase in customer base; (q) environmental health and safety; (r) diversity; (s) quality; (t) customer satisfaction; (u) working capital targets; (v) economic value added or EVA (net operating profit after tax minus the sum of capital multiplied by the cost of capital); (w) net debt; (x) corporate governance; (y) total shareholder return; (z) dividend; and (aa) bond rating.
 
Any Performance Measure(s) may be used to measure the performance of the Company, Subsidiary, and/or Affiliate as a whole or any business unit of the Company, Subsidiary, and/or Affiliate or any combination thereof, as the Committee may deem appropriate, or any of the above Performance Measures as compared to the performance of a group of comparator companies, or published or special index that the Committee, in its sole discretion, deems appropriate, or the Company may select Performance Measure (k) above as compared to various stock market indices. The Committee also has the authority to provide for accelerated vesting of any Award based on the achievement of performance goals pursuant to the Performance Measures specified in this Article 12.
 
12.3
 
Evaluation of Performance.
The evaluation of performance may include or exclude the effect of any of the following events that occurs during a Performance Period, and the Committee shall specify in writing when it establishes the performance goal whether the effect of one or more such events shall be so included or excluded: (a) asset write-downs, (b) litigation or claim judgments or settlements, (c) the effect of changes in tax laws, accounting principles, laws, regulatory actions or provisions affecting reported results, (d) any reorganization and restructuring programs, (e)
 
14
 
extraordinary nonrecurring items as described in Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 30 and/or in managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations appearing in the Companys annual report to shareholders or Annual Report on Form 10-K, as the case may be, for the applicable year, (f) acquisitions or divestitures, and (g) foreign exchange gains and losses. To the extent such inclusions or exclusions affect Awards to Covered Employees, they shall be prescribed in a form that meets the requirements of Code Section 162(m) for deductibility.
 
12.4
 
Certification of Performance.
No vesting or payment shall occur under an Award that is intended to qualify as Performance-Based Compensation until the Committee certifies in writing that the performance goal and any other material terms of the Award have been satisfied.
 
12.5
 
Adjustment of Performance-Based Compensation.
Awards that are intended to qualify as Performance-Based Compensation may not be adjusted upward. The Committee shall retain the discretion to adjust such Awards downward, either on a formula or discretionary basis or any combination, as the Committee determines.
 
12.6
 
Committee Discretion.
In the event that the Committee determines that it is advisable to grant Awards that shall not qualify as Performance-Based Compensation, the Committee may make such grants without satisfying the requirements of Code Section 162(m), and may base the vesting or payment of such Awards on Performance Measures other than those set forth in Section 12.2.
 
Article 13. Director Awards
The Board shall determine all Awards to Directors. The terms and conditions of any grant to any such Director shall be set forth in an Award Agreement.
 
Article 14. Dividend Equivalents
Any Participant selected by the Committee may be granted dividend equivalents based on the dividends declared on Shares that are subject to any Full Value Award, to be credited as of the dividend payment dates, during the period between the date the Full Value Award is granted and the date the Award vests or expires, as determined by the Committee. Such dividend equivalents shall be converted to cash or additional Shares by such formula and at such time and subject to such limitations as may be determined by the Committee.
 
Article 15. Beneficiary Designation
Each Participant under this Plan may, from time to time, name any beneficiary or beneficiaries (who may be named contingently or successively) to whom any benefit under this Plan is to be paid in case of his death before he receives any or all of such benefit. Each such designation shall revoke all prior designations by the same Participant, shall be in a form prescribed by the Committee, and will be effective only when filed by the Participant in writing with the Company during the Participants lifetime. In the absence of any such beneficiary designation, benefits remaining unpaid
or rights remaining unexercised at the Participants death shall be paid to or exercised by the Participants executor, administrator, or legal representative on behalf of the Participants estate.
 
Article 16. Rights of Participants
16.1
 
Employment
. Nothing in this Plan or an Award Agreement shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Company, its Affiliates, and/or its Subsidiaries, to terminate any Participants employment or service on the Board or to the Company
 
at any time or for any reason
 
 
 
15
 
 
not prohibited by law, nor confer upon any Participant any right to continue his employment or service as a Director 
for any specified period of time.
 
Neither an Award nor any benefits arising under this Plan shall constitute an employment contract with the Company, its Affiliates, and/or its Subsidiaries and, accordingly, subject to Articles 3 and 18, this Plan and the benefits hereunder may be terminated at any time in the sole and exclusive discretion of the Committee without giving rise to any liability on the part of the Company, its Affiliates, and/or its Subsidiaries.
 
16.2
 
Participation
. No individual shall have the right to be selected to receive an Award under this Plan, or, having been so selected, to be selected to receive a future Award.
 
16.3
 
Rights as a Shareholder
. Except as otherwise provided herein, a Participant shall have none of the rights of a shareholder with respect to Shares covered by any Award until the Participant becomes the record holder of such Shares.
 
Article 17. Change of Control
The treatment of Awards upon a change in control of the Company shall be set forth in the Award Agreement.
 
Article 18. Amendment, Modification, Suspension, and Termination
18.1
 
Amendment, Modification, Suspension, and Termination
. Subject to Section 18.2, the Committee may, at any time and from time to time, alter, amend, modify, suspend, or terminate this Plan and any Award Agreement in whole or in part; provided, however, that, without the prior approval of the Companys shareholders and except as provided in Section 4.4, Options or SARs issued under this Plan will not be repriced, replaced, or regranted through cancellation, or by lowering the Option Price of a previously granted Option or the Grant Price of a previously granted SAR, and no material
 
amendment of this Plan shall be made without shareholder approval if shareholder approval is required by law, regulation, or stock exchange rule, including, but not limited to, the Exchange Act, the Code, and if applicable, the NYSE Listed Company Manual.
 
18.2
 
Awards Previously Granted
. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan to the contrary (other than Section 18.3), no termination, amendment, suspension, or modification of this Plan or an Award Agreement shall adversely affect in any material way any Award previously granted under this Plan, without the written consent of the Participant holding such Award.
 
18.3
 
Amendment to Conform to Law.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan to the contrary,
the Board of Directors may amend the Plan or an Award Agreement, to take effect retroactively or otherwise, as deemed necessary or advisable for the purpose of conforming the Plan or an Award Agreement to any present or future law relating to plans of this or similar nature
(including, but not limited to, Code Section 409A), and to the administrative regulations and rulings promulgated thereunder.
 
Article 19. Withholding
The Company shall have the power and the right to deduct or withhold, or require a Participant to remit to the Company, the minimum statutory amount to satisfy federal, state, and local taxes, domestic or foreign, required by law or regulation to be withheld with respect to any taxable event
 
 
16
 
 
arising as a result of this Plan. Participants may elect to satisfy the withholding requirements, in whole or in part, by having the Company withhold shares having a Fair Market Value on the date the tax is to be determined equal to the minimum statutory total tax that could be imposed on the transaction. The Participant shall remain responsible at all times for paying any federal, state, and local income or employment tax due with respect to any Award, and the Company shall not be liable for any interest or penalty that a Participant incurs by failing to make timely payments of tax.
 
Article 20. Successors
All obligations of the Company under this Plan with respect to Awards granted hereunder shall be binding on any successor to the Company, whether the existence of such successor is the result of a direct or indirect purchase, merger, consolidation, or otherwise, of all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company.
 
Article 21. General Provisions
21.1
 
Forfeiture Events
.
 
 
 
21.2
 
Legend
. The certificates or statements of holdings for Shares may include any legend which the Committee deems appropriate to reflect any restrictions on transfer of such Shares.
 
21.3
 
Gender and Number
. Except where otherwise indicated by the context, any masculine term used herein also shall include the feminine, the plural shall include the singular, and the singular shall include the plural.
 
 
17
 
 
21.4
 
Severability
.
 
In the event any provision of this Plan shall be held illegal or invalid for any reason, the illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts of this Plan, and this Plan shall be construed and enforced as if the illegal or invalid provision had not been included.
 
21.5
 
Requirements of Law
.
 
The granting of Awards and the issuance of Shares under this Plan shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules, and regulations, and to such approvals by any governmental agencies or national securities exchanges as may be required.
 
21.6
 
Delivery of Title
.
 
The Company shall have no obligation to issue or deliver evidence of title for Shares issued under this Plan prior to:
 
 
 
21.7
 
Inability to Obtain Authority
.
 
The inability of the Company to obtain authority from any regulatory body having jurisdiction, which authority is deemed by the Companys counsel to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any Shares hereunder, shall relieve the Company of any liability in respect of the failure to issue or sell such Shares as to which such requisite authority shall not have been obtained.
 
21.8
 
Investment Representations
.
 
The Committee may require any individual receiving Shares pursuant to an Award under this Plan to represent and warrant in writing that the individual is acquiring the Shares for investment and without any present intention to sell or distribute such Shares.
 
21.9
 
Uncertificated Shares
. To the extent that this Plan provides for issuance of certificates to reflect the transfer or issuance of Shares, the transfer or issuance of such Shares may be effected on a noncertificated basis, to the extent not prohibited by applicable law or the rules of any stock exchange upon which the Shares are listed.
 
21.10
 
Unfunded Plan
.
 
Participants shall have no right, title, or interest whatsoever in or to any investments that the Company, and/or its Subsidiaries, and/or its Affiliates may make to aid it in meeting its obligations under this Plan. Nothing contained in this Plan, and no action taken pursuant to its provisions, shall create or be construed to create a trust of any kind, or a fiduciary relationship between the Company and any Participant, beneficiary, legal representative, or any other individual. To the extent that any individual acquires a right to receive payments from the Company, its
Subsidiaries, and/or its Affiliates under this Plan, such right shall be no greater than the right of an unsecured general creditor of the Company, a Subsidiary, or an Affiliate, as the case may be. All payments to be made hereunder shall be paid from the general funds of the Company, a Subsidiary, or an Affiliate, as the case may be and no special or separate fund shall be established and no segregation of assets shall be made to assure payment of such amounts except as expressly set forth in this Plan.
 
 
18
 
 
21.11
 
No Fractional Shares
. No fractional Shares shall be issued or delivered pursuant to this Plan or any Award. The Committee shall determine whether cash, Awards, or other property shall be issued or paid in lieu of fractional Shares or whether such fractional Shares or any rights thereto shall be forfeited or otherwise eliminated.
 
21.12
 
Retirement and Welfare Plans
. Neither Awards made under this Plan nor Shares or cash paid pursuant to such Awards, except pursuant to a Covered Employees annual incentive award, may be included as compensation for purposes of computing the benefits payable to any Participant under the Companys or any Subsidiarys or Affiliates retirement plans (both qualified and non-qualified) or welfare benefit plans unless such other plan expressly provides that such compensation shall be taken into account in computing a Participants benefit.
 
21.13
 
Deferred Compensation.
If any Award would be considered deferred compensation as defined under Code Section 409A and would fail to meet the requirements of Code Section 409A, then such Award shall be null and void.
 
21.14
 
Nonexclusivity of this Plan
. The adoption of this Plan shall not be construed as creating any limitations on the power of the Board or Committee to adopt such other compensation arrangements as it may deem desirable for any Participant.
 
21.15
 
No Constraint on Corporate Action.
Nothing in this Plan shall be construed to: (i) limit, impair, or otherwise affect the Companys or a Subsidiarys or an Affiliates right or power to make adjustments, reclassifications, reorganizations, or changes of its capital or business structure, or to merge or consolidate, or dissolve, liquidate, sell, or transfer all or any part of its business or assets; or (ii) limit the right or power of the Company or a Subsidiary or an Affiliate to take any action which such entity deems to be necessary or appropriate.
 
21.16
 
Governing Law
. The Plan and each Award Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Missouri, excluding any conflicts or choice of law rule or principle that might otherwise refer construction or interpretation of this Plan to the substantive law of another jurisdiction. Unless otherwise provided in the Award Agreement, recipients of an Award under this Plan are deemed to submit to the exclusive jurisdiction and venue of the federal or state courts of Missouri, to resolve any and all issues that may arise out of or relate to this Plan or any related Award Agreement.
 
21.17
 
Indemnification.
Subject to requirements and limitations of applicable law, each individual who is or shall have been a member of the Board, or a Committee appointed by the Board, or an officer of the Company, a Subsidiary, or an Affiliate to whom authority was delegated in accordance with Article 3, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Company against and from any loss, cost, liability, or expense that may be imposed upon or reasonably incurred by him in connection with or resulting from any claim, action, suit, or proceeding to which he may be a party or in which he may be involved by reason of any action taken or failure to act under this Plan and against and from any and all amounts paid by him in settlement thereof, with the Companys approval, or paid by him in satisfaction of any judgment in any such action, suit, or proceeding against him, provided he shall give the Company an opportunity, at its own expense, to handle and defend the same before he undertakes to handle and defend it on his own behalf, unless such loss, cost, liability, or expense is a result of his own willful misconduct or except as expressly provided by statute.
 
 
19
 
 
The foregoing right of indemnification shall not be exclusive of any other rights of indemnification to which such individuals may be entitled under the Companys Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws, as a matter of law, or otherwise, or any power that the Company may have to indemnify them or hold them harmless.
 
21.18
 
No Guarantee of Favorable Tax Treatment.
Although the Company intends to administer the Plan so that Awards will be exempt from, or will comply with, the requirements of Code Section 409A, the Company does not warrant that any Award under the Plan will qualify for favorable tax treatment under Code Section 409A or any other provision of federal, state, local, or foreign law. The Company shall not be liable to any Participant for any tax, interest, or penalties the Participant might owe as a result of the grant, holding, vesting, exercise, or payment of any Award under the Plan.
 
21.19
 
Effect of Disposition of Facility or Operating Unit.
In the event that the Company or any of its Affiliates and/or Subsidiaries closes or disposes of the facility at which a Participant is located or the Company or any of its Affiliates and/or Subsidiaries diminish or eliminate ownership interests in any operating unit of the Company or any of its Affiliates and/or Subsidiaries so that such operating unit ceases to be majority owned by the Company or any of its Affiliates and/or Subsidiaries, then, with respect to Awards held by Participants who subsequent to such event will not be Employees, the Committee may, to the extent consistent with Code Section 409A (if applicable), (i) accelerate the exercisability of Awards to the extent not yet otherwise exercisable or remove any restrictions applicable to any Awards and (ii) extend the period during which Awards will be exercisable to a date subsequent to the date when such Awards would otherwise have expired by reason of the termination of such Participants employment with the Company or any of its Affiliates and/or Subsidiaries (but in no event to a date later than the expiration date of the Awards or the fifth anniversary of the transaction in which such facility closes or operating unit ceases). If the Committee takes no special action with respect to any disposition of a facility or an operating unit, then the terms and conditions of the Award Agreement and the other terms and conditions of this Plan shall control.
 
 
 
20

Exhibit 10.4
 
Performance Share Unit
 
   Award Agreement
   
   
   
 
Ameren Corporation
 
2006 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan
 
____________ 2006
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ameren Corporation
Performance Share Unit Award Agreement
 
THIS AGREEMENT, effective ____________, 2006, represents the grant of Performance Share Units by Ameren Corporation (the Company), to the Participant named below, pursuant to the provisions of the Ameren Corporation 2006 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan (the Plan). This Award is expressly conditioned on shareholder approval of the Plan, and this Award shall be forfeited if shareholders do not approve the Plan. The number of Shares ultimately earned and paid, if any, for such Performance Share Units will be determined pursuant to Section 3 of this Agreement.
 
The Plan provides a complete description of the terms and conditions governing the Performance Share Units. If there is any inconsistency between the terms of this Agreement and the terms of the Plan, the Plans terms will completely supersede and replace the conflicting terms of this Agreement. All capitalized terms will have the meanings ascribed to them in the Plan, unless specifically set forth otherwise herein. The parties hereto agree as follows:
 
1.       
Grant Information
. The individual named below has been selected to be a Participant in the Plan, as specified below:
 
            (a)
 
Participant
: _________________
 
            (b)
 
Target Number of Performance Share Units
: _____
 
 
2.       
Performance Period
. The performance period begins on January 1, 2006, and ends on December 31, 2008 (Performance Period).
 
 3.       
   
Performance Grid
. The number of Performance Share Units earned by the Participant under this Agreement will be determined in accordance with the following grid. If the actual performance results fall between two of the categories listed below, straight-line interpolation will be used to determine the amount earned. Payouts that otherwise would have been more than 100% of Target will be capped at Target if the Companys total shareholder return (TSR) is negative over the three-year period. TSR shall be calculated in the manner set forth in Exhibit 1 hereto and compared to the peer group identified in Exhibit 1.
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.       
Calculation of Earned Performance Share Units
. The Committee, in its sole discretion, will determine the number of Performance Share Units earned by the Participant at the end of the Performance Period based on the performance of the Company, calculated using the performance grid set forth in Section 3 of this Agreement.
 
5.       
Vesting of Performance Share Units
. Subject to provisions set forth in Section 9 of this Agreement related to a Change of Control (as defined in the Amended and Restated Ameren Corporation Change of Control Severance Plan (the Change of Control Severance Plan)) of the Company and Section 10 relating to termination for Cause (as defined in the Change of Control Severance Plan), the Performance Share Units will vest as set forth below:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Termination of employment during the Performance Period for any reason other than death, Disability, retirement as described above, or on or after a Change of Control in accordance with Section 9 will require forfeiture of this entire award, with no payment to the Participant.
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
6.       
Form and Timing of Payment
. All payments of vested Performance Share Units pursuant to this Agreement will be made in the form of Shares. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, payment will be made upon the earliest to occur of the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.        
Right as Shareholder
. Except as specifically set forth in this Agreement, the Participant shall not have voting or any other rights as a shareholder of the Company with respect to Performance Share Units. The Participant will obtain full voting and other rights as a shareholder of the Company upon the payment of the Performance Share Units in Shares as provided in Section 6 or 9.
 
8.        
Dividends
. The Participant shall be entitled to receive dividend equivalents, which represent the right to receive cash payments or Shares measured by the dividend payable with respect to the corresponding number of Performance Share Units. Dividend equivalents on Performance Share Units will accrue and be reinvested into additional Performance Share Units throughout the three-year Performance Period. The additional Shares will be paid as set forth in Section 6 or 9 of this Agreement. During the two-year period following the Performance Period, dividend equivalents will be paid on earned Performance Share Units on a current basis. The dividend equivalents will be paid to the Participant at the end of each calendar quarter with such payment equal to any dividend declared by the Company during such calendar quarter, multiplied by the number of earned Performance Share Units held by the Participant pursuant to this Agreement.
 
 
3
 
 
   
9.       
Change of Control
.
 (a)      
   
Company No Longer Exists
. Upon a Change of Control which occurs on or before December 31, 2008 in which the Company ceases to exist or is no longer publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange or the NASDAQ Stock Market, the Target Number of Performance Share Units awarded as set forth in Section 1(b) of this Agreement plus the accrued dividends shall be converted to nonqualified deferred compensation with the following features:
 
Upon such a Change of Control that occurs after December 31, 2008, the Participant will receive an immediate distribution of cash equal to the value of one Share based on the closing price on the New York Stock Exchange on the last trading day prior to the date of the Change of Control multiplied by the earned Performance Share Units.
 
(b)      
Company Continues to Exist
. If there is a Change of Control of the Company but the Company continues in existence and remains a publicly traded company on the New York Stock
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
Exchange or the NASDAQ Stock Market, the Performance Share Units will pay out upon the earliest to occur of the following:
 
(i)
  
As set forth in Section 6 (Form and Timing of Payments) of this Agreement; or
 
(ii)
  
If the Participant experiences a qualifying termination (as defined in Section 9(c)) during the two-year period following the Change of Control and the termination occurs prior to January 1, 2009, one hundred percent (100%) of the Performance Share Units he would have earned had he remained employed for the entire Performance Period will vest on December 31, 2008 and the vested Performance Share Units will be paid in Shares on January 1, 2009 or as soon as practicable thereafter. If the Participant experiences a qualifying termination during the two-year period following the Change of Control but the termination occurs after December 31, 2008, the Participant will receive an immediate distribution of the earned Shares. Notwithstanding the foregoing, to the extent required by Code Section 409A, distribution of the Shares shall be made no earlier than the date six (6) months following the date of the Participants termination of employment.
 
(c)      
Qualifying Termination
. For purposes of Sections 9(a)(v) and 9(b)(ii), a qualifying termination means (i) an involuntary termination without Cause, (ii) for Change of Control Severance Plan participants, a voluntary termination of employment for Good Reason (as defined in the Change of Control Severance Plan) or (iii) a voluntary termination that qualifies for severance under the Ameren Corporation Severance Plan for Management Employees (as in effect immediately prior to the Change of Control).
 
(d)      
Termination in Anticipation of Change of Control
. If a Participant qualifies for benefits as provided in the last sentence of Section 4.1 of the Change of Control Severance Plan, or if a Participant is not a Participant in the Change of Control Severance Plan but is terminated within six (6) months prior to the Change of Control and qualifies for severance benefits under the Companys general severance plan and the Participants termination of employment occurs before December 31, 2008, then the Participant shall receive (i) upon a Change of Control described in Section 9(a), an immediate cash payout equal to the value of one Share based on the closing price on the New York Stock Exchange on the last trading day prior to the date of the Change of Control multiplied by the sum of the Target Number of Performance Share Units awarded as set forth in Section 1(b) of this Agreement plus the additional Performance Share Units attributable to accrued dividends or (ii) upon a Change of Control described in Section 9(b), the payout provided for in Section 9(b).
 
10.       
Termination for Cause.
Termination of employment for Cause at any time prior to payout of the Shares will require forfeiture of the entire Performance Share Unit Award, with no distribution of any Shares to the Participant.
 
11.       
Nontransferability
. Performance Share Units awarded pursuant to this Agreement may not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned or otherwise alienated or hypothecated (a Transfer) other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution, except as provided in the Plan. If any Transfer, whether voluntary or involuntary, of Performance Share Units is made, or if any attachment, execution, garnishment, or lien will be issued against or placed upon the Performance Share Units, the Participants right to such Performance Share Units will be immediately forfeited to the Company, and this Agreement will lapse.
 
 
 
5
 
 
12.       
Requirements of Law
. The granting of Performance Share Units under the Plan will be subject to all applicable laws, rules, and regulations, and to such approvals by any governmental agencies or national securities exchanges as may be required.
 
13.       
Tax Withholding
. The Company will have the power and the right to deduct or withhold, or require the Participant or the Participants beneficiary to remit to the Company, an amount sufficient to satisfy federal, state, and local taxes, domestic or foreign, required by law or regulation to be withheld with respect to any taxable event arising as a result of this Agreement.
 
14.       
Stock Withholding
. With respect to withholding required upon any taxable event arising as a result of Performance Share Units granted hereunder, the Company, unless notified otherwise by the Participant in writing within thirty (30) days prior to the taxable event, will satisfy the tax withholding requirement by withholding Shares having a Fair Market Value or, in the case of dividends payable after December 31, 2008, cash equal to the total minimum statutory tax required to be withheld on the transaction. The Participant agrees to pay to the Company, its Affiliates, and/or its Subsidiaries any amount of tax that the Company, its Affiliates, and/or its Subsidiaries may be required to withhold as a result of the Participants participation in the Plan that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described.
 
15.       
Administration
. This Agreement and the Participants rights hereunder are subject to all the terms and conditions of the Plan, as the same may be amended from time to time, as well as to such rules and regulations as the Committee may adopt for administration of the Plan. It is expressly understood that the Committee is authorized to administer, construe, and make all determinations necessary or appropriate to the administration of the Plan and this Agreement, all of which will be binding upon the Participant.
 
16.       
Continuation of Employment
. This Agreement will not confer upon the Participant any right to continuation of employment by the Company, its Affiliates, and/or its Subsidiaries, nor will this Agreement interfere in any way with the Companys, its Affiliates, and/or its Subsidiaries right to terminate the Participants employment at any time.
 
17.       
Amendment to the Plan
. The Plan is discretionary in nature and the Committee may terminate, amend, or modify the Plan; provided, however, that no such termination, amendment, or modification of the Plan may in any way adversely affect the Participants rights under this Agreement, without the Participants written approval.
 
18.       
Amendment to this Agreement
. The Company may amend this Agreement in any manner, provided that no such amendment may adversely affect the Participants rights hereunder without the Participants written approval.
 
19.       
Successor
. All obligations of the Company under the Plan and this Agreement, with respect to the Performance Share Units, will be binding on any successor to the Company, whether the existence of such successor is the result of a direct or indirect purchase, merger, consolidation, or otherwise, of all or substan-tially all of the business and/or assets of the Company.
 
 20.       
   
Severability
. The provisions of this Agreement are severable and if any one or more provisions are determined to be illegal or otherwise unenforceable, in whole or in part, the remaining provisions will nevertheless be binding and enforceable.
6
21.       
Applicable Laws and Consent to Jurisdiction
. The validity, construction, interpretation, and enforceability of this Agreement will be determined and governed by the laws of the State of Missouri without giving effect to the principles of conflicts of law. For the purpose of litigating any dispute that arises under this Agreement, the parties hereby consent to exclusive jurisdiction and agree that such litigation will be conducted in the federal or state courts of the State of Missouri.
 
 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Agreement to be executed effective as of _______________, 2006.
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
Total Shareholder Return
Total Shareholder Return shall be calculated as follows:
 
 
Peer Group
Following are the peer group companies. In order to be counted in the final calculations, a company must still have a ticker at the end of the performance period.
 
 
 
 
 
 
1

 
Exhibit 10.5
 
 
  The Board of Directors of Ameren Corporation recognizes that, as is the case with many publicly held corporations, there exists the possibility of a Change of Control of the Company. This possibility and the uncertainty it creates may result in the loss or distraction of senior executives of the Company, to the detriment of the Company and its shareholders.
   
   
  
 
  The Board considers the avoidance of such loss and distraction to be essential to protecting and enhancing the best interests of the Company and its shareholders. The Board also believes that when a Change of Control is perceived as imminent, or is occurring, the Board should be able to receive and rely on impartial service from senior executives regarding the best interests of the Company and its shareholders, without concern that senior executives might be distracted or concerned by the personal uncertainties and risks created by the perception of an imminent or occurring Change of Control.
   
   
  
 
 
  In addition, the Board believes that it is consistent with the Companys employment practices and policies and in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders to treat fairly its employees whose employment terminates in connection with or following a Change of Control.
   
   
  
 
  Accordingly, the Board has determined that appropriate steps should be taken to assure the Company of the continued employment and attention and dedication to duty of its senior executives and to seek to ensure the availability of their continued service, notwithstanding the possibility, threat or occurrence of a Change of Control.
   
   
  
 
  Therefore, in order to fulfill the above purposes, the following plan has been developed and is hereby adopted.
   
   
  
 
 
  As of the Effective Date, the Company hereby amends and restates the Ameren Corporation Change of Control Severance Plan, as set forth in this document.
   
   
  
 
 
  As used herein, the following words and phrases shall have the following respective meanings unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
   
   
  
 
  (a)
   
   
  
  
Annual Bonus Award
. The target annual cash bonus that a Participant is eligible to earn for the year in which a Change in Control occurs pursuant to the Companys Executive Incentive Plan, the Ameren Corporation 2006 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan, or any successor to either such plan.
 
  (b)
   
   
  
  
Annual Salary
. The Participants regular annual base salary immediately prior to his or her termination of employment, including compensation converted to other benefits under
 
 
 
 
a flexible pay arrangement maintained by any Employer or deferred pursuant to a written plan or agreement with any Employer.
 
(c)
  
Board
. The Board of Directors of the Company.
 
(d)
  
Cause
. The occurrence of any one or more of the following:
 
(i)
  
The Participants willful failure to substantially perform his duties with the Company (other than any such failure resulting from the Participants Disability), after a written demand for substantial performance is delivered to the Participant that specifically identifies the manner in which the Committee believes that the Participant has not substantially performed his duties, and the Participant has failed to remedy the situation within fifteen (15) business days of such written notice from the Company;
 
(ii)
  
Gross negligence in the performance of the Participants duties which results in material financial harm to the Company;
 
(iii)
  
The Participants conviction of, or plea of guilty or
nolo contendere
, to any felony or any other crime involving the personal enrichment of the Participant at the expense of the Company or shareholders of the Company; or
 
(iv)
  
The Participants willful engagement in conduct that is demonstrably and materially injurious to the Company, monetarily or otherwise.
 
(e)
  
Change of Control
. The occurrence of any of the following events after the Effective Date of this Plan:
 
(i)
  
The acquisition by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act)) (a Person) of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 20% or more of either (x) the then outstanding shares of common stock of the Company (the Outstanding Company Common Stock) or (y) the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the Outstanding Company Voting Securities); provided, however, that for purposes of this subsection (i), the following acquisitions shall not constitute a Change of Control: (A) any acquisition directly from the Company, (B) any acquisition by the Company, (C) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any corporation controlled by the Company or (D) any acquisition by any corporation pursuant to a transaction which complies with clauses (A), (B) and (C) of paragraph (iii) below; or
 
(ii)
  
Individuals who, as of the Effective Date of this Plan, constitute the Board (the Incumbent Board) cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board; provided, however, that any individual becoming a director subsequent to the Effective Date whose election, or nomination for election by the Companys shareholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office
 
 
2
 
 
occurs as a result of (A) an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board or (B) any agreement intended to avoid or settle any election contest; or
 
(iii)
  
Consummation of a reorganization, merger or consolidation or sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company or the acquisition of assets of another corporation (a Business Combination), in each case, unless, following such Business Combination, (A) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners, respectively, of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 60% of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the case may be, of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination (including, without limitation, a corporation which as a result of such transaction owns the Company or all or substantially all of the Companys assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries) in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such Business Combination of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities, as the case may be, (B) no Person (excluding any corporation resulting from such Business Combination or any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of the Company or such corporation resulting from such Business Combination) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination or the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of such corporation except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to the Business Combination and (C) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement, or of the action of the Board, providing for such Business Combination; or
 
(iv)
  
Approval by the shareholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Change of Control shall not be deemed to occur solely because any Person (the Subject Person) acquired beneficial ownership of more than the permitted amount of the then Outstanding Company Common Stock or the Outstanding Company Voting Securities as a result of the acquisition of shares of common stock or voting securities by the Company which, by reducing the number of shares of Outstanding Company Common Stock or the Outstanding Company Voting Securities, increases the proportional number of shares beneficially owned by the Subject Persons, provided that if a Change of Control would occur (but for the operation of this sentence) as a result of the acquisition of shares of Outstanding Company Common Stock or the Outstanding Company Voting Securities by the Company, and after such share acquisition by the Company, the Subject Person becomes the beneficial owner of any additional shares of Outstanding Company Common Stock or the Outstanding Company Voting Securities which increases the percentage of the then Outstanding Company Common Stock or the Outstanding Company Voting Securities beneficially owned by the Subject Person, then a Change of Control shall occur.
 
 
 
3
 
(f)
  
Code
. The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
 
(g)
  
Committee
. The Human Resources Committee of the Board.
 
(h)
  
Company
. Ameren Corporation and any successors thereto.
 
(i)
  
Date of the Change of Control
. The date on which a Change of Control occurs.
 
(j)
  
Date of Termination
. The date on which a Participant ceases to be an Employee.
 
(k)
  
Disability
. A termination of a Participants Employment for Disability shall have occurred if the Termination occurs because of a disability which qualifies the Participant for benefits under the Companys long-term disability plan.
 
(l)
  
Effective Date
. February 10, 2006
 
(m)
  
Employee
. Any full-time, regular-benefit, non-bargaining employee of the Company or any other Employer.
 
(n)
  
Employer
. The Company or any subsidiary of the Company.
 
(o)
  
Employment
. The state of being an Employee.
 
(p)
  
ERISA
. The Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and the regulations thereunder.
 
(q)
  
Good Reason
. The occurrence after a Change in Control of the Company of any one or more of the following without the Participants express written consent:
 
(i)
  
A net reduction of the Participants authorities, duties, or responsibilities as an executive and/or officer of the Company from those in effect prior to the Change in Control, other than an insubstantial and inadvertent reduction that is remedied by the Company promptly after receipt of notice thereof given by the Participant;
 
(ii)
  
The Companys requiring the Participant to be based at a location in excess of fifty (50) miles from the location of the Participants principal job location or office immediately prior to the Change of Control; except for required travel on the Companys business to an extent substantially consistent with the Participants then present business travel obligations;
 
(iii)
  
Any reduction of 1% or more by the Company of the Participants Base Salary or targeted Annual Bonus Awards, in effect on the Date of the Change of Control, or as the same shall be increased from time to time;
 
(iv)
  
The failure to provide the Participant with an annualized long-term incentive opportunity which is either essentially equivalent in value to or greater in value than the Participants regular annualized long-term incentive opportunity in effect on the
 
 
4
 
 
Date of the Change of Control (for this purpose, the permissible floor value is intended to reference normal long-term incentive awards made as a part of the regular annual pay package, and not special awards that are not made on a regular basis) when calculated on a grant date basis using widely recognized valuation methodologies (e.g., Black-Scholes for options);
 
(v)
  
The failure of the Company to continue in effect the aggregate value in any of the employee benefit or retirement plans in which the
Participant participates prior to the Change in Control of the Company;
 
(vi)
  
The failure of the Company to obtain a satisfactory agreement from any successor to the Company to assume and agree to perform the Companys obligations under this Plan, as contemplated in Article V herein; and
 
(vii)
  
A material breach of this Plan by the Company which is not remedied by the Company within ten (10) business days of receipt of written notice of such breach delivered by the Participant to the Company.
 
In the event it is necessary to determine the value of a long-term incentive opportunity under Section q(iv) above or the aggregate value of employee benefit or retirement plans under Section q(v) above, an outside independent benefit consulting firm shall be engaged by the Company to make such determination.
 
(r)
  
Multiple
. With respect to any Participant, the number set forth opposite the Participants name under the heading Benefit Level on Schedule I hereto.
 
 
(s)
  
Participant
. An individual who is designated as such pursuant to Section 3.1.
 
(t)
  
Plan
. The Ameren Corporation Change of Control Severance Plan.
 
(u)
  
Retirement
. A termination by Retirement shall have occurred where a Participants termination is due to his or her late, normal or early retirement under a pension plan sponsored by the Company or any of its affiliates, as defined in such plan.
 
(v)
  
Separation Benefits
. The benefits described in Section 4.2 that are provided to qualifying Participants under the Plan.
 
(w)
  
Separation Period
. With respect to any Participant, the period beginning on a Participants Date of Termination and ending after the expiration of a number of years equal to the Multiple for such Participant.
 
 
3.1
  
Participants
. Each of the individuals named on Schedule I hereto shall be a Participant in the Plan.
 
3.2
  
Duration of Participation
. A Participant shall only cease to be a Participant in the Plan as a result of an amendment or termination of the Plan complying with Article VI of the
 
 
5
 
 
Plan, or when he ceases to be an Employee, unless, at the time he ceases to be an Employee, such Participant is entitled to payment of a Separation Benefit as provided in the Plan or there has been an event or occurrence that constitutes Good Reason which would enable the Participant to terminate his employment and receive a Separation Benefit. A Participant entitled to payment of a Separation Benefit or any other amounts under the Plan shall remain a Participant in the Plan until the full amount of the Separation Benefit and any other amounts payable under the Plan have been paid to the Participant.
 
 
4.1
  
Terminations of Employment Which Give Rise to Separation Benefits Under Plan
. A Participant shall be entitled to Separation Benefits as set forth in Section 4.2 below if, at any time before the second anniversary of the Date of the Change of Control, the Participants Employment is terminated (i) by the Employer for any reason other than Cause or (ii) by the Participant within 90 days after the occurrence of Good Reason. A Participant shall not be entitled to Separation Benefits if the Participants Employment is terminated (i) voluntarily by the Participant without Good Reason (or more than 90 days after any event which constitutes the occurrence of Good Reason) or (ii) by reason of death or Disability or (iii) by the Employer for Cause. In addition, if a Participants employment is terminated by the Company without Cause prior to the date of a Change of Control, either (i) at the request of a third party who has indicated an intention or taken steps reasonably calculated to effect such Change of Control, or (ii) otherwise in connection with, or in anticipation of, such a Change of Control which has been threatened or proposed, such termination shall be deemed to have occurred after a Change of Control for purposes of this Plan provided a Change of Control shall actually occur.
 
4.2
  
Separation Benefits
.
 
(a)
  
If a Participants employment is terminated under circumstances entitling him to Separation Benefits as provided in Section 4.1, the Company shall pay such Participant, within 30 days of the Date of Termination, a cash lump sum as set forth in subsection (b) below and the continued benefits set forth in subsection (c) below. For purposes of determining the benefits set forth in subsections (b) and (c), if the termination of the Participants employment is for Good Reason after there has been a reduction of the Participants Annual Salary, opportunity to earn Annual Bonuses, or other compensation or employee benefits, such reduction shall be ignored.
 
(b)
  
The cash lump sum referred to in Section 4.2(a) is the aggregate of the following amounts:
 
(i)
  
the sum of (1) the Participants Annual Salary through the Date of Termination to the extent not theretofore paid, (2) the product of (x) the Annual Bonus Award and (y) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days in such year through the Date of Termination, and the denominator of which is 365, and (3) any accrued vacation pay, to the extent not theretofore paid and in full satisfaction of the rights of the Participant thereto;
 
 
 
6
 
(ii)
  
an amount equal to the product of (1) the Participants Multiple times (2) the sum of (x) the Participants Annual Salary plus (y) the Participants Annual Bonus Award; and
 
(iii)
  
an amount equal to the difference between (a) the actuarial equivalent of the benefit under the qualified defined benefit retirement plans of the Employer in which the Participant participates (collectively, the Retirement Plan) and any excess or supplemental retirement plans in which the Participant participates (collectively, the SERP) which the Participant would receive if his or her employment continued during the Separation Period, assuming that the Participants compensation during the Separation Period would have been equal to his or her compensation as in effect immediately before the termination or, if higher, on the Effective Date, and (b) the actuarial equivalent of the Participants actual benefit (paid or payable), if any, under the Retirement Plan and the SERP as of the Date of Termination. The actuarial assumptions used for purposes of determining actuarial equivalence shall be no less favorable to the Participant than the more favorable of those in effect under the Retirement Plan and the SERP on the Date of Termination or the Date of the Change of Control.
(c)
  
The continued benefits referred to above are as follows:
 
(i)
  
during the Separation Period, the Participant and his or her family shall be provided with medical, dental and life insurance benefits as if the Participants employment had not been terminated; provided, however, that if the Participant becomes reemployed with another employer and is eligible to receive medical or other welfare benefits under another employer-provided plan, the medical and other welfare benefits described herein shall be secondary to those provided under such other plan during such applicable period of eligibility. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Participant will be required to pay the full cost of such medical and dental insurance for the portion of the Separation Period, if any, extending beyond the last day of the second calendar year following the calendar year in which the Date of Termination occurs (Full Cost). On the January 1 following the last day of such second calendar year, the Company shall pay the Participant a lump sum equal to the amount which would allow the Participant to retain, after payment of all federal, state, and local income taxes (including any interest or penalties thereon) on such amount, the Full Cost. For purposes of determining eligibility (but not the time of commencement of benefits) of the Participant for retiree medical, dental and life insurance benefits under the Employers plans, practices, programs and policies, the Participant shall be considered to have remained employed during the Separation Period and to have retired on the last day of such period; and
 
(ii)
  
if the Participants employment is terminated by the Company other than for Cause, the Company shall, at its sole expense as incurred, provide the Participant with outplacement services the scope and provider of which shall be selected by the Participant in his or her sole discretion (but at a cost to the Company of not more than $30,000), provided that no such outplacement services shall be provided beyond the end of the second calendar year following the calendar year in which the Date of Termination occurs;
 
 
 
7
 
To the extent any benefits described in this Section 4.2(c) cannot be provided pursuant to the appropriate plan or program maintained for Employees, the Company shall provide such benefits outside such plan or program at no additional cost (including without limitation tax cost) to the Participant.
 
4.3
  
Other Benefits Payable
. The cash lump sum and continuing benefits described in Section 4.2 above shall be payable in addition to, and not in lieu of, all other accrued or vested or earned but deferred compensation, rights, options or other benefits which may be owed to a Participant upon or following termination, including but not limited to accrued vacation or sick pay, amounts or benefits payable under any bonus or other compensation plans, stock option plan, stock ownership plan, stock purchase plan, life insurance plan, health plan, disability plan or similar or successor plan, but excluding any severance pay or pay in lieu of notice required to be paid to such Participant under applicable law.
 
4.4
  
Certain Additional Payments by the Company
.
 
(a)
  
Anything in this Plan to the contrary notwithstanding and except as set forth below, in the event it shall be determined that any payment or distribution by the Company to or for the benefit of any Participant (whether paid or payable or distributed or distributable pursuant to the terms of this Plan or otherwise, but determined without regard to any additional payments required under this Section 4.4) (a Payment) would be subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Code or any interest or penalties are incurred by the Participant with respect to such excise tax (such excise tax, together with any such interest and penalties, are hereinafter collectively referred to as the Excise Tax), then the Participant shall be entitled to receive an additional payment (a Gross-Up Payment) in an amount such that after payment by the Participant of all taxes (including any interest or penalties imposed with respect to such taxes), including, without limitation, any income taxes (and any interest and penalties imposed with respect thereto) and Excise Tax imposed upon the Gross-Up Payment, the Participant retains an amount of the Gross-Up Payment equal to the Excise Tax imposed upon the Payments. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 4, if it shall be determined that the Participant is entitled to a Gross-Up Payment, but that the Payments do not exceed 110% of the greatest amount (the Reduced Amount) that could be paid to the Participant such that the receipt of Payments will not give rise to any Excise Tax, then no Gross-Up Payment shall be made to the Participant and the Payments, in the aggregate, shall be reduced to the Reduced Amount.
 
(b)
  
Subject to the provisions of Section 4.4(c), all determinations required to be made under this Section 4.4, including whether and when a Gross-Up Payment is required and the amount of such Gross-Up Payment and the assumptions to be utilized in arriving at such determination, shall be made by such certified public accounting firm, human resources consulting firm, or other consulting firm in the business of performing such calculations as may be designated by the Company (the Consulting Firm), which shall provide detailed supporting calculations both to the Company and the Participant. All fees and expenses of the Consulting Firm shall be borne solely by the Company. Any Gross-Up Payment, as determined pursuant to this Section 4.4, due upon a Change of Control or due upon the Participants termination of employment shall be paid by the Company to the Participant no later than two and one-half months following such Change of Control or termination of employment, respectively. Any determination by the Consulting Firm shall be binding upon the Company and the Participant. As a result of the uncertainty in the application of Section 4999 of the Code at the time of the initial determination by the Consulting
 
 
 
8
 
 
Firm hereunder, it is possible that Gross-Up Payments which will not have been made by the Company should have been made (Underpayment), consistent with the calculations required to be made hereunder. In the event that the Company exhausts its remedies pursuant to Section 4.4(c) and the Participant thereafter is required to make a payment of any Excise Tax, the Consulting Firm shall determine the amount of the Underpayment that has occurred and any such Underpayment shall be paid by the Company to or for the benefit of the Participant within two and one-half months after the date the Company has exhausted such remedies.
 
(c)
  
The Participant shall notify the Company in writing of any claim by the Internal Revenue Service that, if successful, would require the payment by the Company of the Gross-Up Payment. Such notification shall be given as soon as practicable but no later than ten business days after the Participant is informed in writing of such claim and shall apprise the Company of the nature of such claim and the date on which such claim is requested to be paid. The Participant shall not pay such claim prior to the expiration of the 30-day period following the date on which it gives such notice to the Company (or such shorter period ending on the date that any payment of taxes with respect to such claim is due). If the Company notifies the Participant in writing prior to the expiration of such period that it desires to contest such claim, the Participant shall:
 
(i)
  
give the Company any information reasonably requested by the Company relating to such claim,
 
(ii)
  
take such action in connection with contesting such claim as the Company shall reasonably request in writing from time to time, including, without limitation, accepting legal representation with respect to such claim by an attorney reasonably selected by the Company,
 
(iii)
  
cooperate with the Company in good faith in order effectively to contest such claim, and
 
(iv)
  
permit the Company to participate in any proceedings relating to such claim;
 
provided, however, that the Company shall bear and pay directly all costs and expenses (including additional interest and penalties) incurred in connection with such contest and shall indemnify and hold the Participant harmless, on an after-tax basis, for any Excise Tax or income tax (including interest and penalties with respect thereto) imposed as a result of such representation and payment of costs and expenses. Without limitation on the foregoing provisions of this Section 4.5(c), the Company shall control all proceedings taken in connection with such contest and, at its sole option, may pursue or forgo any and all administrative appeals, proceedings, hearings and conferences with the taxing authority in respect of such claim and may, at its sole option, either direct the Participant to pay the tax claimed and sue for a refund or contest the claim in any permissible manner, and the Participant agrees to prosecute such contest to a determination before any administrative tribunal, in a court of initial jurisdiction and in one or more appellate courts, as the Company shall determine; provided, however, that if the Company directs the Participant to pay such claim and sue for a refund, to the extent permitted by law the Company shall advance the amount of such payment to the Participant, on an interest-free basis and shall indemnify and hold the Participant harmless, on an after-tax basis, from any Excise Tax or income tax (including interest or penalties with respect
 
 
 
9
 
thereto) imposed with respect to such advance or with respect to any imputed income with respect to such advance; and further provided that any extension of the statute of limitations relating to payment of taxes for the taxable year of the Participant with respect to which such contested amount is claimed to be due is limited solely to such contested amount. Furthermore, the Companys control of the contest shall be limited to issues with respect to which a Gross-Up Payment would be payable hereunder and the Participant shall be entitled to settle or contest, as the case may be, any other issue raised by the Internal Revenue Service or any other taxing authority.
 
(d)
  
If, after the receipt by the Participant of an amount advanced by the Company pursuant to Section 4.4(c), the Participant becomes entitled to receive any refund with respect to such claim, the Participant shall (subject to the Companys complying with the requirements of Section 4.4(c)) promptly pay to the Company the amount of such refund (together with any interest paid or credited thereon after taxes applicable thereto). If, after the receipt by the Participant of an amount advanced by the Company pursuant to Section 4.4(c), a determination is made that the Participant shall not be entitled to any refund with respect to such claim and the Company does not notify the Participant in writing of its intent to contest such denial of refund prior to the expiration of 30 days after such determination, then such advance shall be forgiven and shall not be required to be repaid and the amount of such advance shall offset, to the extent thereof, the amount of Gross-Up Payment required to be paid.
 
4.5
  
Payment Obligations Absolute
. The obligations of the Company and the other Employers to pay the separation benefits described in Section 4.2 and any additional payments described in Section 4.4 shall be absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstances, including, without limitation, any set-off, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other right which the Company or any of the other Employers may have against any Participant. In no event shall a Participant be obligated to seek other employment or take any other action by way of mitigation of the amounts payable to a Participant under any of the provisions of this Plan, nor shall the amount of any payment hereunder be reduced by any compensation earned by a Participant as a result of employment by another employer, except as specifically provided in Section 4.2(c)(i).
 
 
This Plan shall bind any successor of the Company, its assets or its businesses (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise), in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be obligated under this Plan if no succession had taken place.
 
In the case of any transaction in which a successor would not by the foregoing provision or by operation of law be bound by this Plan, the Company shall require such successor expressly and unconditionally to assume and agree to perform the Companys obligations under this Plan, in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform if no such succession had taken place. The term Company, as used in this Plan, shall mean the Company as hereinbefore defined and any successor or assignee to the business or assets which by reason hereof becomes bound by this Plan.
 
 
 
10
 
 
6.1
  
Amendment or Termination
. The Board may amend or terminate this Plan (including Schedule I) at any time;
provided
, that this Plan (including Schedule I) may not be terminated or amended (i) following a Change of Control, (ii) at the request of a third party who has taken steps reasonably calculated to effect a Change of Control, or (iii) otherwise in connection with or in anticipation of a Change of Control, in any manner that could adversely affect the rights of any Participant. If a Change of Control occurs while this Plan is in effect, this Plan shall continue in full force and effect and shall not terminate or expire until after all Participants who become entitled to any payments hereunder shall have received such payments in full and all adjustments required to be made pursuant to Section 4.4 have been made.
 
6.2
  
Procedure for Amendment or Termination
. Any Amendment or termination of this Plan by the Board in accordance with the foregoing shall be made by action of the Board in accordance with the Companys charter and by-laws and applicable law, and shall be evidenced by a written instrument signed by a duly authorized officer of the Company, certifying that the Board has taken such action.
 
 
7.1
  
Legal Fees and Expenses
. The Company shall pay as incurred all legal fees, costs of litigation, costs of arbitration, prejudgment interest, and other expenses which are incurred in good faith by the Participant as a result of the Companys refusal to provide the benefits to which the Participant becomes entitled under this Agreement, or as a result of the Companys (or any third partys) contesting the validity, enforceability, or interpretation of the Agreement, or as a result of any conflict between the parties pertaining to this Agreement; provided, however, that if the court (or arbitration panel, as applicable) determines that the Participants claims were arbitrary and capricious, the Company shall have no obligation hereunder.
 
7.2
  
Employment Status
. This Plan does not constitute a contract of employment, nor does it impose on the Participant or the Employers any obligation for the Participant to remain an Employee or change the status of the Participants employment or the Employers policies regarding termination of employment.
 
7.3
  
Named Fiduciary; Administration
. The Company is the named fiduciary of the Plan, with full authority to control and manage the operation and administration of the Plan, acting through the Benefits Administration Committee.
 
7.4
  
Claim Procedure
. If an Employee, former Employee or other person who believes that he or she is being denied a benefit to which he or she is entitled (claimant), or his or her duly authorized representative, makes a written request alleging a right to receive benefits under this Plan or alleging a right to receive an adjustment in benefits being paid under the Plan, the Company shall treat it as a claim for benefit. All claims for benefit under the Plan shall be sent to the Chief Executive Officer of the Company at Ameren Corporation, 1901 Chouteau Avenue, P.O. Box 66149, St. Louis, MO 63166, and must be received within 30 days after termination of employment.
 
 
 
11
 
 
(a)
  
Claim Decision
. Upon receipt of a claim, the Chief Executive Officer shall advise the claimant that a reply will be forthcoming within a reasonable period of time, but ordinarily not later than 90 days, and shall, in fact, deliver such reply within such period. However, the Chief Executive Officer may extend the reply period for an additional ninety days for reasonable cause. If the reply period will be extended, the Chief Executive Officer shall advise the claimant in writing during the initial 90-day period indicating the special circumstances requiring an extension and the date by which the Chief Executive Officer expects to render the benefit determination. If the Chief Executive Officer denies the claim, in whole or in part, the Chief Executive Officer will inform the claimant in writing of his or her determination and the reasons therefor in terms calculated to be understood by the claimant. The notice shall set forth the specific reasons for the denial, make specific reference to the pertinent Plan provisions on which the denial is based, and describe any additional material or information necessary for the claimant to perfect the claim and explain why such material or such information is necessary. Such notice shall, in addition, inform the claimant what procedure the claimant should follow to take advantage of the review procedures set forth below in the event the claimant desires to contest the denial of the claim, including a statement of the claimants right to bring a civil action under Section 502(a) of ERISA following an adverse benefit determination on review and the time limits for requesting a review and for the actual review.
 
(b)
  
Request for Review
. The claimant may within 60 days thereafter request in writing that the Committee of the Board review the Chief Executive Officers prior determination. Such request must be addressed to the Committee of the Board at Ameren Corporation, 1901 Chouteau Avenue, P.O. Box 66149, St. Louis, MO 63166. The claimant or his or her authorized representative may submit written comments, documents, records or other information relating to the denied claim, which shall be considered in the review without regard to whether such information was submitted or considered in the initial benefit determination. The claimant or his or her authorized representative shall be provided, upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to, and copies of, all documents, records and other information which (i) was relied upon by the Chief Executive Officer in making his or her initial claims decision, (ii) was submitted, considered or generated in the course of the Chief Executive Officer making his or her initial claims decision, without regard to whether such instrument was actually relied upon by the Chief Executive Officer in making his or her decision or (iii) demonstrates compliance by the Chief Executive Officer with the administrative processes and safeguards designed to ensure and to verify that benefit claims determinations are made in accordance with governing Plan documents and that, where appropriate, the Plan provisions have been applied consistently with respect to similarly situated claimants. If the claimant does not request a review of the Chief Executive Officers determination within such 60-day period, he or she shall be barred and estopped from challenging such determination.
 
(c)
  
Review of Decision
. The Committee shall, within a reasonable period of time, ordinarily not later than 60 days, after the Committees receipt of a request for review, review the Chief Executive Officers prior determination. If special circumstances require that the 60-day time period be extended, the Committee will so notify the claimant within the initial 60-day period indicating the special circumstances requiring an extension and the date by which the Committee expects to render its decision on review, which shall be as soon as possible but not later than 120 days after receipt of the request for review. In the event that the Committee extends the determination period on review due to a claimants failure to submit information necessary to decide a claim, the period for making the benefit determination on review shall not take into account the period beginning on the date on which notification of extension is sent to the claimant and ending
 
 
12
 
 
 
on the date on which the claimant responds to the request for additional information. The Committee has discretionary authority to determine a claimants eligibility for benefits and to interpret the terms of the Plan. Benefits under the Plan will be paid only if the Committee decides in its discretion that the claimant is entitled to such benefits. The decision of the Committee shall be final and non-reviewable, unless found to be arbitrary and capricious by a court of competent review. Such decision will be binding upon the Company and the claimant. If the Committee makes an adverse benefit determination on review, the Committee will render a written opinion, using language calculated to be understood by the claimant, that sets forth the specific reasons for the denial, makes specific references to pertinent Plan provisions on which the denial is based and includes a statement of the claimants right to bring a civil action under Section 502(a) of ERISA following the adverse benefit determination on such review. The opinion shall also include a statement that the claimant is entitled to receive, upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to, and copies of, all documents, records and other information which (i) was relied upon by the Committee in making its decision, (ii) was submitted, considered or generated in the course of the Committee making its decision, without regard to whether such instrument was actually relied upon by the Committee in making its decision, or (iii) demonstrates compliance by the Committee with its administrative processes and safeguards designed to ensure and to verify that benefit claims determinations are made in accordance with governing Plan documents, and that, where appropriate, the Plan provisions have been applied consistently with respect to similarly situated claimants.
 
7.5
  
Unfunded Plan Status
. This Plan is intended to be an unfunded plan maintained primarily for the purpose of providing deferred compensation for a select group of management or highly compensated employees, within the meaning of Section 401 of ERISA. All payments pursuant to the Plan shall be made from the general funds of the Company and no special or separate fund shall be established or other segregation of assets made to assure payment. No Participant or other person shall have under any circumstances any interest in any particular property or assets of the Company as a result of participating in the Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, one or more of the Employers may (but shall not be obligated to) create one or more grantor trusts, the assets of which are subject to the claims of the Employers creditors, to assist them in accumulating funds to pay their obligations under the Plan.
 
7.6
  
Validity and Severability
. The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of the Plan shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of the Plan, which shall remain in full force and effect, and any prohibition or unenforceability in any jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.
 
7.7
  
Governing Law
. The validity, interpretation, construction and performance of the Plan shall in all respects be governed by the laws of Missouri, without reference to principles of conflict of law, except to the extent pre-empted by ERISA.
 
 
 
13
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.6
 
 
WHEREAS, Ameren Corporation (Ameren) previously adopted the Ameren Corporation Long-Term Incentive Plan of 1998 (Plan); and
WHEREAS, Ameren wishes to amend the Change in Control provision in the Plan effective for Awards granted after December 31, 2005;
NOW, THEREFORE, effective solely for Awards of Performance Units granted after December 31, 2005, Section 9 of the Plan shall not be applicable and the provisions of Section 9 are replaced by the following:
(a)
 
Impact of Event
. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, in the event of a Change in Control, all Performance Units shall be administered in the manner provided under the Award Agreement.
(b)
 
Definition of Change in Control
. For purposes of the Plan, a Change in Control shall mean the happening of any of the following events:
(i)
  
The acquisition by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act)) (a Person) of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 20% or more of either (x) the then outstanding shares of common stock of the Company (the Outstanding Company Common Stock) or (y) the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the Outstanding Company Voting Securities); provided, however, that for purposes of this subsection (i), the following acquisitions shall not constitute a Change of Control: (A) any acquisition directly from the Company, (B) any acquisition by the Company, (C) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any corporation controlled by the Company or (D) any acquisition by any corporation pursuant to a transaction which complies with clauses (A), (B) and (C) of paragraph (iii) below; or
 
(ii)
  
Individuals who, as of the Effective Date of this Plan, constitute the Board (the Incumbent Board) cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board; provided, however, that any individual becoming a director subsequent to the Effective Date whose election, or nomination for election by the Companys shareholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of (A) an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or
 
 
 
 
 
on behalf of a Person other than the Board or (B) any agreement intended to avoid or settle any election contest; or
 
(iii)
  
Consummation of a reorganization, merger or consolidation or sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company or the acquisition of assets of another corporation (a Business Combination), in each case, unless, following such Business Combination, (A) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners, respectively, of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 60% of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the case may be, of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination (including, without limitation, a corporation which as a result of such transaction owns the Company or all or substantially all of the Companys assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries) in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such Business Combination of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities, as the case may be, (B) no Person (excluding any corporation resulting from such Business Combination or any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of the Company or such corporation resulting from such Business Combination) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination or the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of such corporation except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to the Business Combination and (C) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement, or of the action of the Board, providing for such Business Combination; or
 
(iv)
  
Approval by the shareholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Change of Control shall not be deemed to occur solely because any Person (the Subject Person) acquired beneficial ownership of more than the permitted amount of the then Outstanding Company Common Stock or the Outstanding Company Voting Securities as a result of the acquisition of shares of common stock or voting securities by the Company which, by reducing the number of shares of Outstanding Company Common Stock or the Outstanding Company Voting Securities, increases the proportional number of shares beneficially owned by the Subject Persons, provided that if a Change of Control would occur (but for the operation of this sentence) as a result of the acquisition of shares of Outstanding Company Common Stock or the Outstanding Company Voting Securities by the Company, and after such share acquisition by the Company, the Subject Person becomes the beneficial owner of any additional shares of Outstanding Company Common Stock or the Outstanding Company Voting Securities which increases the percentage of the then Outstanding Company Common Stock or the Outstanding Company Voting Securities beneficially owned by the Subject Person, then a Change of Control shall occur.
 
2


