FILE:AEE/AEE-8K-20071115154913.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans
TEXT:
ITEM: Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On November 15, 2007, Ameren Corporation (the Company) sent a notice to its directors and officers informing them of a blackout period under the Ameren Corporation Savings Investment Plan (the Plan).  The blackout period is being implemented in connection with the transition of the administrative functions of the Plan to a new plan administrator and trustee.
 
The blackout period will be in effect beginning 3:00 p.m. CST on December 18, 2007 and is expected to end the week of January 6, 2008.  During this time, and for a period of two years after the blackout period has ended, directors and officers can determine whether the blackout period has ended by going to www.myAmeren.com or calling the Ameren Resource Center at (866) 367-5236 or (877) 769-2637.
 
During the blackout period, each director and officer is prohibited from, directly or indirectly, purchasing, selling or otherwise acquiring or transferring any equity security of the Company that was acquired in connection with the directors or officers service or employment as a director or officer, except pursuant to a limited number of exceptions.  The term equity security includes, without limitation, the Companys common stock, options to purchase the Companys common stock and other derivative securities which derive their value from the Companys common stock.  At the end of the Plan blackout period, directors and officers will be permitted to resume transactions in such securities, subject to the requirements of the Companys Section 16 Trading Reporting Program.
 
Please contact the Companys Employee Benefits Department by mail at Ameren Corporation, 1901 Chouteau Avenue, St. Louis, Missouri 63103 or by telephone at the numbers listed above with any questions regarding this blackout period.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


