FILE:AEE/AEE-8K-20071218162242.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported):                                                                                                
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
     [  ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
     [  ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
     [  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
     [  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
ITEM 5.02         Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of
Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
(d)           On December 14, 2007, the Board of Directors of Ameren Corporation (Ameren) elected Walter J. Galvin to fill a vacancy on the Board.  No arrangement or understanding exists between Mr. Galvin and Ameren, or to Amerens knowledge, any other person or persons pursuant to which Mr. Galvin was selected as a director.  It has not been determined to which committee or committees of Amerens Board that Mr. Galvin will be named.  Mr. Galvin will receive directors compensation for service on the Board of Directors and the committee or committees he is named to as discussed in Amerens Current Report on Form 8-K dated June 12, 2006. Mr. Galvin is currently the Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Emerson Electric Company (Emerson), which is a diversified global technology company that provides products and services for a wide range of industries, commercial markets and end-users, including consumers.
Emerson, for which Mr. Galvin is an executive officer, and some of Emersons subsidiaries, had business relationships with some of Amerens subsidiaries in 2006 and 2007 which are required to be reported under Item 404(a) of SEC Regulation S-K.  Ameren subsidiaries (primarily its utility companies, Union Electric Company, doing business as AmerenUE, Central Illinois Light Company, doing business as AmerenCILCO, Central Illinois Public Service Company, doing business as AmerenCIPS, and Illinois Power Company, doing business as AmerenIP and Electric Energy, Inc., its 80% owned non-rate-regulated electric generation business) purchased electric motors, control valves and associated instrumentation and other materials from Emerson and its subsidiaries for an aggregate consideration of approximately $1,062,000  in 2006 and $1,650,000 in 2007 to date.  Ameren subsidiaries also purchased from Emerson and its subsidiaries engineering, system support and consulting services for an aggregate consideration of approximately $2,361,000 in 2006 and $3,615,000 in 2007 to date.  Emerson and its subsidiaries made utility pole attachment license payments to Ameren subsidiaries of approximately $400 in 2006 and $460 to date in 2007.  These transactions, some of which are for multiple year terms, were entered into in the ordinary course of business on an arms length basis.
(e)           On December 14, 2007, the Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors of Ameren approved and the full Board of Directors of Ameren ratified the 2008 Ameren Executive Incentive Plan (the 2008 EIP) to provide for the payment of cash awards to the Named Executive Officers in 2009 based on corporate and/or business segment results and individual performance in 2008.  The 2008 EIP is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
For 2008, a target award under the 2008 EIP was established for each Named Executive Officer as a percent of 2008 base salary as shown below.
 
 
2
 
Under the 2008 EIP, earnings per share for 2008 (EPS) is the primary metric used to establish award opportunities.  Named Executive Officers with corporate responsibility (Messrs. Rainwater, Baxter and Sullivan) will have their incentive compensation opportunity based 100% on Ameren EPS, while Named Executive Officers with business segment responsibility (Messrs. Voss and Naslund) will have their incentive compensation opportunity based 50% on Ameren EPS and 50% on their respective business segment contribution to Ameren EPS.  The range of EPS achievement levels for the 2008 EIP (threshold, target and maximum) are expected to be established by the Human Resources Committee and ratified by the Board in February 2008 and will be disclosed in a filing on Form 8-K promptly thereafter.  EPS achievement levels may be adjusted to reflect refunds and rate changes under regulatory sharing plans or other extraordinary one-time events.  In the event Ameren EPS or business segment contribution to Ameren EPS is below the threshold achievement level, no award will be paid that is based on achieving the related EPS threshold achievement level.
 
The plan award based on achievement of 2008 corporate and/or business segment contribution to Ameren EPS for Named Executive Officers (the core award) may be adjusted up or down by up to 50% (the individual performance modifier) based on the Named Executive Officers individual contributions and performance during the year.  The individual performance modifier will take into consideration the Named Executive Officers performance on key performance variables, including leadership, business results, customer satisfaction, reliability, plant availability, safety and/or other performance metrics, as applicable and as determined by the Committee.  The actual individual incentive payout, determined by modifying the plan award by the individual performance modifier is capped at 200% of target short-term incentive compensation, with the ability to pay zero for non-performance.
ITEM 9.01      Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)           Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
AMEREN CORPORATION
(Registrant)
 
 
                                                          
 /s/ Martin J. Lyons                        
Martin J. Lyons
Vice President and Controller
(Principal Accounting Officer)
 
Date:  December 18, 2007
 
4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
SUMMARY
The Ameren Executive Incentive Plan (EIP) is intended to reward eligible Officers for their contributions to Amerens success.  The EIP rewards Officers for corporate earnings per share (EPS) results and/or their business segments contribution to Amerens earnings per share results, and individual performance.  The plan is approved by the Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors.  Ameren reserves the right to revise, modify, continue or discontinue the EIP beyond the current plan year.
EIP ELIGIBILITY
All Officers who are actively employed on December 31, 2008 are eligible to participate in the EIP pursuant to the terms described herein.  Additionally, Officers who terminate employment because they retire, die or become disabled during 2008 (the plan year), or whose employment is involuntarily terminated during the plan year as a result of a reduction in force, elimination of position, or change in strategic demand, are eligible to participate in the EIP pursuant to the terms described herein.  Officers who voluntarily or involuntarily terminate employment for any other reason during the plan year or following the plan year but before awards are paid, forfeit participation in the EIP
.
AWARD OPPORTUNITIES
Award opportunity percentages are set by the Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors.  Officers will receive specific communications regarding their incentive target opportunity.
PLAN STRUCTURE
The EIP is designed to reward Officers for their contributions to Amerens success.  This is acomplished by rewarding Officers for the achievement of EPS goals and their own personal contributions to Amerens performance.  The EIP has four primary components:  (1) EPS targets; (2) a core award; (3) an individual performance modifier; and (4) an individual incentive payout.  These components are described in more detail below.
EPS Targets
Ameren Officers have a responsibility to drive shareholder value through earnings performance.  Thus, EPS performance is the primary metric used to establish award opportunities.  Officers with Corporate responsibility will have their incentive opportunity based 100% on corporate EPS, while Officers with business segment responsibilities will have their opportunity based 50% on corporate EPS and 50% on their business segments contribution to Amerens EPS.
 
 
Three levels of EPS achievement will be established to reward eligible Officers for results achieved in EPS performance.  Achievement of EPS falling between the established levels will be interpolated.  The three levels are defined as follows:
 
 
Core Award
Following the conclusion of the plan year, corporate EPS and business segment contributions to Amerens EPS will be measured .  Achievement levels may be adjusted to reflect refunds and rate changes under regulatory sharing plans or other extraordinary one-time events.  Using these performance results, a formulaic core award will be determined for each Officer.  This core award will then be subject to modification based on the Officers individual performance as described below.
Individual Performance Modifier
The core award for each Officer may be adjusted up by as much as 50% or down by as much as 50%, based on the Officer's individual contributions and performance during the plan year.    Demonstrated leadership and the achievement of key operational goals will be considered when modifying the core award for each Officer.
Individual Incentive Payout
The Individual Incentive Payout represents the actual incentive award an Officer will receive as a result of both Amerens performance and the Officers own individual performance.  Subject to the terms described herein, the maximum payout under the EIP is 200% of the Officer's target incentive opportunity with the ability to pay zero for non-performance.
EIP PAYOUT
Awards will be paid by March 15, 2009.  The core award will be calculated based on an eligible Officers salary as of December 31, 2008 (or at the time of eligible termination, if earlier).  Awards will be prorated based on the amount of time worked during the plan year for eligible Officers who: (1) are hired or become Officersafter the plan year begins; or (2) terminate employment on account of retirement, disability or death during the plan year; or (3) are involuntarily terminated during the plan year as a result of a reduction in force, elimination of position, or change in strategic demand.
 
The Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors will review and has the authority to approve the final amount of payment upon recommendation of the Chairman and CEO of Ameren Corporation.  The final payment granted is final and conclusive and not subject to review.In situations where an eligible Officers employment is terminated during the plan year as a result of death, a reduction in force, elimination of position, or change in strategic demand, the employees award will be prorated and paid on or before March 15, 2009.
 
CONTACT
Questions regarding this plan may be directed to the Manager, Compensation & Performance.
 


