FILE:AEE/AEE-8K-20070215085416.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Item 2.02
 
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On February 15, 2007, Ameren Corporation (Ameren) issued a press release announcing its earnings for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended December 31, 2006. The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. The information furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act) or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing of Ameren under the Securities Act of 1933 (the Securities Act) or the Exchange Act.
 
The information contained in Exhibit 99.2 shall be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act and shall be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing of Ameren under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act.
 
Item 5.02
 
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
(b)  
In accordance with the director retirement age provisions of Amerens Corporate Governance Policy, Richard A. Lumpkin, an Ameren director, offered his resignation from  Amerens Board of Directors, effective April 24, 2007, the end of his term as a director. On February 9, 2007 the Board accepted his resignation as a director effective April 24, 2007.
 
(e)  
On February 9, 2007, the Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors (the Committee) of Ameren approved and the full Board of Directors of Ameren ratified the  following actions:
 
      
Established the 2007 Ameren Executive Incentive Plan (the 2007 EIP) to provide for the payment of cash bonus awards to the Named Executive Officers in 2008 based on 2007 
        corporate results and business line and individual performance. The 2007 EIP is attached as Exhibit 99.3 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
For 2007, a target award under the 2007 EIP was established for each Named Executive Officer as a percent of 2007 base salary as shown below.
 
 
 
-2-
 
All of the short-term incentive award opportunities above are dependent on Amerens 2007 EPS achievement. However, 50% of the award funded by EPS achievement is subject to adjustment downward based on the performance of the individual executive and the business unit he is responsible for leading in 2007. The range of EPS achievement levels for the 2007 EIP is included in the 2007 EIP attached as Exhibit 99.3.
 
         
Authorized the issuance pursuant to the 2006 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan of performance share unit awards for 2007 to the Named Executive Officers. Each performance share unit represents the right to receive a share of Amerens common stock assuming certain performance criteria are achieved. The actual number of performance share units earned will vary from 0 percent to 200 percent of the target number of performance share units granted to each Named Executive Officer, based primarily on the Companys three-year total shareholder return (TSR) relative to a utility peer group and continued employment during the three-year period. Once earned, performance share units continue to rise and fall in value with Amerens common stock price for two years, at which time the performance share units are paid in Amerens common stock. Dividends on performance share units will accrue and be reinvested into additional performance share units throughout the three-year performance share period. Dividends will be paid on a current basis during the two-year holdback period. Because these performance share units will be earned only if performance goals over performance periods are attained, the amounts, if any, that will be payable to the Named Executive Officers pursuant to the performance share unit awards described above are not determinable at this time. The Committee has the ability to amend the terms of the performance share unit awards, including the performance criteria, to the extent not adverse to the holders of an award.
 
The target number of performance share units issued to each Named Executive Officer for 2007 pursuant to the 2006 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan is set forth in the table attached as Exhibit 99.4 and is incorporated by reference herein. The form of performance share unit award was filed as Exhibit 10.2 to Amerens combined Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 10, 2006 (the Prior 8-K) and is incorporated herein by reference. The award agreements between Ameren and each of the Named Executive Officers provide certain Change of Control acceleration benefits and payouts as described in the Prior 8-K, which description is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 8.01
 
Other Events.
 
In its press release dated February 15, 2007, Ameren disclosed the following unaudited consolidated financial statements: Statement of Income for the three-months and twelve-months ended December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, Statement of Cash Flows for the twelve-months ended December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005 and Balance Sheet at December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005. The foregoing consolidated financial statements are attached as Exhibit 99.2 and Ameren hereby incorporates such consolidated financial statements into this Item 8.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
-3-
Item 9.01
 
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
_________________
*
 
Exhibit 99.2 is intended to be deemed filed rather than furnished pursuant to General Instructions B.2 of Form 8-K.
 
 
-4-
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Ameren has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
AMEREN CORPORATION
(Registrant)
 
/s/ Martin J. Lyons                       
Martin J. Lyons
Vice President and Controller
(Principal Accounting Officer)
 
Date: February 15, 2007
 
-5-
 
________________
*
Exhibit 99.2 is intended to be deemed filed rather than furnished pursuant to General Instructions B.2 of Form 8-K.

Exhibit 99.1
 
One Ameren Plaza
1901 Chouteau Avenue
St. Louis, MO 63103
 NEWS RELEASE
 
Contacts:
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
 
ST. LOUIS, MO., Feb. 15, 2007Ameren Corporation (NYSE: AEE) today announced 2006 net income of $547 million, or $2.66 per share, compared to net income of $
606 milli
on, or $3.02 per share, in 2005. Excluding the estimated earnings impact of severe storms of 26 cents per share, non-GAAP earnings in 2006 were $2.92 per share. These results were within Amerens previously announced non-GAAP earnings per share guidance range of $2.75 to $3.00. This guidance also excluded the estimated earnings impact of severe storms.
 
Ameren recorded net income of $61 million, or 30 cents per share, for the fourth quarter of 2006, compared to $20 million, or 10 cents per share, for the fourth quarter of 2005. Fourth quarter 2006 net income included $28 million, after taxes, or 13 cents per share, of severe storm-related costs, and fourth quarter 2005 results
included a $22 million (11 cents per share) charge for the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle related to accounting for asset retirement obligations.
 
Amerens Missouri regulated reporting segment, which includes AmerenUEs electric and gas utility operations, contributed $267 million to Amerens net income in 2006 - $62 million less than 2005. The Illinois regulated reporting segment, which includes the electric and gas distribution utility businesses of AmerenCIPS, AmerenCILCO and AmerenIP, contributed $115 million to Amerens net income in 2006 - $51 million less than 2005. The non-rate-regulated electric generation reporting segment contributed $138 million to Amerens net income in 2006 - $43 million more than 2005.
 
Earnings in 2006 were affected by restoration efforts associated with severe storms that reduced net income by 26 cents per share. In addition, costs related to the December 2005 breach of the upper reservoir at AmerenUEs Taum Sauk pumped-storage hydroelectric facility decreased 2006 earnings by 20 cents per share. Ameren also incurred a charge of 5 cents per share related to funding commitments for low-income energy assistance and energy efficiency programs associated with the December 2006 Illinois Commerce Commission (ICC) order
 
Add one
 
approving the Ameren Illinois utilities Customer Elect electric rate increase phase-in plan. Incremental gains of approximately 9 cents per share in 2006, associated with the sale of certain non-core properties, including leveraged leases, reduced the negative impact of these items.
 
Ongoing operations in 2006 were also unfavorably affected by escalating costs for fuel and related transportation, operating materials, and financing costs and depreciation associated with significant energy infrastructure investments in Amerens regulated electric and gas utility businesses. In addition, ongoing operations were significantly affected by mild summer and winter weather, as well as lower power prices for excess energy sales as compared to 2005. Market prices for power in 2005 were higher than 2006 as a result of the significant impact of hurricanes and rail disruptions in 2005. Operating results in 2006 benefited from organic sales growth; improved plant performance; the lack of a scheduled refueling and maintenance outage at AmerenUEs Callaway nuclear plant; Illinois electric commercial and industrial customers returning to tariff rates because these rates were below market rates for power; and higher sales levels of emission allowances.
 
Clearly, 2006 will be remembered as an incredibly challenging year for Ameren, as well as for the communities we serve, said Gary L. Rainwater, chairman, president and chief executive officer of Ameren Corporation. Unprecedented summer and winter storms resulted in more than 1.5 million outages to our electric customers over the course of these events. Our utilities spent approximately $210 million to restore power to our customers. My thanks go out to our customers for their patience, to our employees, local contractors and crews from across the nation who tirelessly worked to restore power, as well as to community service organizations, local leaders, security personnel and many others who helped our communities during those trying times.
 
Rainwater added, We also continued our extensive restoration efforts associated with the Taum Sauk incident. We are committed to working with Missouri authorities involved with this incident to resolve all associated liabilities as soon as possible. And finally, we are addressing a host of regulatory and legislative matters in Illinois and Missouri. I am very pleased that we were able to develop a constructive rate solution that was approved by the ICC in Illinois to give the vast majority of our customers the choice to adjust to higher electric rates over a period of time, while allowing our Illinois utilities to fully recover their costs in a timely fashion and remain financially viable.
 
Ameren also announced today it expects 2007 non-GAAP earnings will be in the range of $3.15 to $3.60 per share. Costs related to the January 2007 ice storms, as well as accounting charges related to offering below-market financing associated with the Ameren Illinois utilities
 
 
Add two
 
Customer-Elect phase-in plan, are excluded from the non-GAAP earnings guidance because they are unusual and associated costs cannot be fully determined at this time. Amerens consolidated and segment guidance for 2007 assumes normal weather and is subject to, among other things, regulatory and legislative decisions, plant operations, energy market and economic conditions, severe storms, unusual or otherwise unexpected gains or losses and other risks and uncertainties outlined in Amerens Forward-looking Statements.
Segment earnings contribution guidance included in this release reflects single point estimates, but a range of outcomes could occur around each segments earnings.
 
As compared to 2006, earnings for 2007 will be driven by many factors, including the ultimate resolution of pending electric and gas rate cases in Missouri, coupled with a final decision in the rehearing of certain electric delivery service rate case issues in Illinois. In addition, Amerens regulated utilities are expected to experience significant increases in the costs of serving their customers. Many of these costs will be in excess of those reflected in 2007 regulated rates because rates are largely based on historical costs. Ameren also expects to realize significantly higher electric margins due to the replacement of below-market power sales contracts, which expired in 2006, with higher-priced contracts in 2007, as well as higher delivery service tariffs in our Illinois utility operations. The benefit of these higher electric margins will be reduced by the loss of margins in our Illinois utility operations associated with customer switching and the completion of the amortization of a purchase accounting adjustment in 2006. In addition, Ameren expects to incur lower costs associated with storms and the Taum Sauk incident in 2007, as well as to realize lower income associated with the sale of emission allowances and non-core properties.
 
While we expect to see earnings improvement in 2007, compared to 2006, we continue to have our earnings results meaningfully affected by rising operating costs and related regulatory lag in our rate-regulated operations in Missouri and Illinois, said Rainwater. Looking ahead, we will continue to make significant energy infrastructure investments in our regulated operations to meet our customers needs for the 21
st
century. We are committed to further optimizing our generating plants operations and related power marketing and will continue to seek constructive regulatory solutions that balance the needs of all of our stakeholders.
 
Missouri Rate-Regulated Operations
 
Earnings in 2006 were $267 million, or $62 million lower than in 2005. The factors behind reduced 2006 earnings in the Missouri regulated segment included the earnings impact of the severe storms ($30 million, after taxes), costs associated with the Taum Sauk breach ($41 million,
 
Add three
 
after taxes), milder summer and winter weather, lower prices on sales of excess power and rising operating, depreciation and financing costs. These decreases were partially offset by the lack of a scheduled refueling and maintenance outage at the Callaway nuclear plant in 2006 and higher sales of emission allowances.
 
In 2007, earnings for the Missouri regulated segment are expected to approximate $305 million. Earnings for 2007 will be significantly impacted by the ultimate outcome of the pending electric and gas rate cases. In addition, 2007 earnings are projected to be affected by significant increases in operating, depreciation and financing costs over 2006 and related regulatory lag, the elimination of the joint dispatch agreement, reduced storm-related costs, a scheduled Callaway plant refueling and maintenance outage in the spring of 2007, energy prices for excess power sales, lower emission allowance sales levels and decreased costs associated with the Taum Sauk incident.
 
Illinois Rate-Regulated Operations
 
Earnings in 2006 were $115 million, or $51 million lower than in 2005. The factors behind lower 2006 earnings in the Illinois regulated segment include the impact of the severe storms ($23 million, after taxes) and the costs associated with funding for the Customer Elect electric rate increase phase-in plan ($10 million, after taxes). In addition, milder winter and summer weather significantly reduced earnings in 2006 compared to the prior year. These decreases were offset, in part, by meaningful increases in electric margins resulting from commercial and industrial electric customers returning to tariff rates because these rates were below market rates for power, as well as by lower purchased power costs.
 
In 2007, earnings are expected to approximate $115 million. Factors expected to significantly impact 2007 earnings include a $97 million increase in electric delivery service rates ordered by the ICC in November 2006, the disallowance of substantial costs of service in that order and the earnings impact resulting from the ICCs rehearing in 2007 related to certain disallowed costs in these rate cases. In addition, year-over-year earnings comparisons are projected to be affected by the loss of electric margins enhanced by customer switching, lower purchased power costs, and the completion of amortization of a purchase accounting adjustment in 2006, reduced storm-related costs, and significant increases in operating, depreciation and amortization, and financing costs over 2006 and related regulatory lag.
 
Non-Rate-Regulated Generation Operations
 
Earnings in 2006 were $138 million, or $43 million higher than in 2005. Earnings in the non-
rate-regulated segment were higher in 2006 because of the expiration at the end of 2005 of below-
 
 
Add four
 
market power sales contracts at 80-percent owned Electric Energy, Inc. and improved plant performance. Higher fuel costs and lower energy prices in 2006 reduced the benefit of increased market-based sales volumes, as well as lower gains on emission allowance transactions.
 
In 2007, earnings are expected to approximate $285 million. Factors expected to significantly impact 2007 earnings include the realization of significantly higher electric margins due to the replacement of below-market power sales contracts, which expired in 2006, with higher-priced contracts in 2007, as well as improved plant operations. These benefits are expected to be offset, in part, by the elimination of the joint dispatch agreement, reduced gains on emission allowance sales and higher fuel and maintenance costs.
 
Other
 
Earnings from Amerens other corporate activities in 2006 were $27 million, or $11 million higher than in 2005, because of the sale of certain non-core properties, including leveraged leases. In 2007, a loss of approximately $5 million is expected principally as a result of unallocated parent company expenses not being offset by gains on sales of non-core assets.
 
Ameren will conduct a conference call for financial analysts at 9:00 a.m. (Central Time) on Thursday, Feb. 15, to discuss 2006 earnings and other matters. Investors, the news media and the public may listen to a live Internet broadcast of the call at www.ameren.com by clicking on "2006 Ameren Corporation Earnings Conference Call," then the appropriate audio link. A slide presentation will also be available on Amerens Web site reconciling earnings per share for 2006 to 2005, and reconciling 2007 non-GAAP earnings per share guidance to 2006 earnings per share on a comparable share basis. This presentation also includes other slides regarding projected 2007 segment results and updates on regulatory matters. This presentation will be posted in the Investors section of the Web site under Presentations. The analyst call will also be available for replay on the Internet for one year. Telephone playback of the conference call will also be available beginning at 11:00 a.m. (Central Time), from Feb. 15 through Feb. 22, by dialing, U.S. (800) 405-2236; international (303) 590-3000 and entering the number: 11083186#.
 
With assets of $19 billion, Ameren serves approximately 2.4 million electric customers and almost one million natural gas customers in a 64,000 square mile area of Missouri and Illinois. Ameren owns a diverse mix of electric generating plants strategically located in its Midwest market with a generating capacity of more than 16,200 megawatts.
 
Regulation G Statement
Ameren has presented certain information in this release on a diluted cents per share basis. These diluted per share amounts reflect certain factors that directly impact Amerens total earnings per share. 2006 non-GAAP earnings per share excludes the impact of the severe 2006 storms and 2007 non-GAAP earnings per share guidance excludes the impact of the severe January 2007 storms and the future
cumulative earnings impact of offering below-market financing associated with the Ameren Illinois utilities Customer-Elect phase-in plan
. In addition, Ameren has provided information excluding a cumulative effect of change in accounting principle recognized in 2005. Ameren believes this information is useful because it enables readers to better understand the impact of these factors on Amerens results of operations and earnings per share.
Forward-looking Statements
Statements in this release not based on historical facts are considered forward-looking and, accordingly, involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed. Although such forward-looking statements have been made in good faith and are based on reasonable assumptions, there is no assurance that the expected results will be achieved. These statements include (without limitation) statements as to future expectations, beliefs, plans, strategies, objectives, events, conditions, and financial performance. In connection with the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, we are providing this cautionary statement to identify important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. The following factors, in addition to those discussed elsewhere in this release and in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, could cause actual results to differ materially from management expectations as suggested by such forward-looking statements:
 
 
 
 
Given these uncertainties, undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements. Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.3
 
SUMMARY
The Ameren Executive Incentive Plan (EIP) is intended to reward Officers for their contributions to Amerens success. The EIP is funded based on earnings per share (EPS) performance, and rewards leaders on corporate EPS performance and business segment/individual performance. The plan is approved by the Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors.
EIP ELIGIBILITY
All Officers who are actively employed on December 31, 2007 are eligible to participate in the Executive Incentive Plan pursuant to the terms described herein. Additionally, Officers who retire, decease, become disabled during 2006 (the plan year), or whose employment is involuntarily terminated as a result of a reduction in force, elimination of position, or change in strategic demand are eligible to participate in the EIP pursuant to the terms described herein.
Officers who voluntarily terminate employment, for reasons other than retirement, death or disability during the plan year or following the plan year, but before awards are paid, forfeit participation in the EIP. Additionally, Officers who are involuntarily terminated for any reason other than a reduction in force, elimination of a position, or change in strategic demand, during the plan year or following the plan year, but before awards are paid, forfeit participation in the EIP.
EIP FUNDING
EIP funding is the total amount of incentive money available for award to employees. The EIP is funded based on the achievement of Ameren Corporations earnings per share (EPS) for the plan year (achievement levels may be adjusted to reflect refunds and rate changes under regulatory sharing plans or other extraordinary one-time events).
Three levels of EPS achievement will be established to reward eligible employees for progress achieved in overall EPS performance. Achievement of EPS falling between the established levels will be interpolated. The three levels are defined as:
The 2007 EPS levels are as follows:
 
 
 
AWARD OPPORTUNITIES
Award opportunity percentages are set by the Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors. Officers will receive specific communications regarding their incentive target opportunity.
PERFORMANCE COMPONENT WEIGHTINGS
The EIP includes two performance award components: EPS performance and business segment/individual performance. The performance award components are the measures used to determine an award payment. Each component is weighted. This weight indicates how much of the available funding will be available for each component.
The weightings for the 2007 plan are:
EPS
:
This component is the corporate level measurement; Amerens earnings per share achievement. Fifty percent of the available incentive funds will be available for payment to each officer based on corporate success.
Business Segment/Individual
:
Each officer will have 50% of their potential incentive determined by their personal contributions to business performance as assessed by the officer to whom they report.
EIP PAYOUT
Awards will be paid by March 15
th
, 2008. The incentive award opportunity is based on the Officers salary as of December 31, 2007 (or upon the Officers salary at retirement, death or disability). Incentive awards will be prorated based on the amount of time worked during the plan year for eligible employees who: 1) are hired after the plan year begins; 2) retire during the plan year; 3) decease during the plan year; or 4) become disabled during the plan year.
In situations where an Officers employment is involuntarily terminated as a result of a reduction in force, elimination of position, or change in strategic demand during the plan year, the award will be prorated accordingly.
The Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors will approve the final amount of payment upon recommendation of the Chairman and CEO of Ameren Corporation.
CONTACT
Questions regarding this plan may be directed to the Managing Supervisor, Compensation & Performance.
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.4
 
 
 


