FILE:AEE/AEE-8K-20080117090535.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Item 2.02   Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On January 17, 2008, Ameren Corporation (the Registrant) issued a press release announcing that it was refining its 2007 earnings guidance range and establishing a long-term earnings growth forecast through 2010.  The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.  The information furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act) or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Registrant under the Securities Act of 1933 (the Securities Act) or the Exchange Act.
 
Item 9.01   Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)  Exhibits
 
-2-
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
AMEREN CORPORATION
(Registrant)
/s/ Martin J. Lyons                    
Martin J. Lyons
Senior Vice President and
Chief Accounting Officer
 
 
Date:  January 17, 2008
-3-
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
One Ameren Plaza
1901 Chouteau Avenue
St. Louis, MO 63103
    
News Release
 
Contacts:
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
Add one
 
Future earnings growth is
expected to
be
primarily driven by
achieving fair
returns
on existing and significant new
capital invest
ments
in Amerens regulated businesses to meet customer needs and to
benefit
the environment.
From 2008 through 2012,
Ameren
expects to
make $5.7
billion
to $6.7 billion of incremental investments in the companys regulated businesses.
 
We are investing for our future, said Gary L. Rainwater, chairman, president and chief executive officer of Ameren Corporation. Our customers and communities count on reliable energy and want clean air, and these investments in our utility infrastructure are targeted to meet their needs.
 
In our non-rate-regulated business, we currently expect earnings to be relatively flat through 2010.  We will remain focused on optimizing our existing generation portfolio by improving our plants performance, successfully marketing our generation output and effectively managing our significant environmental compliance program, added Rainwater.
 
The bottom line is that we believe our straight-forward focus on our core business and lower risk business strategy will provide the opportunity for strong future earnings growth.  This, coupled with an already strong dividend, will provide the opportunity for attractive, risk-adjusted long-term total returns for our investors.
 
Ameren also announced today it expects 2008 GAAP earnings to be in the range of $2.68 to $3.08 and non-GAAP earnings to be in the range of $2.80 to $3.20 per share. An estimated 12 cents per share negative impact in 2008 of the 2007 settlement agreement among parties in Illinois to provide comprehensive electric rate relief and customer assistance is excluded from non-GAAP guidance.
 
Earnings in 2008 are expected to be negatively impacted by rising costs and investments, most notably in our regulated businesses.  Current rate levels are not sufficient to recover our existing costs, said Rainwater.
 
We are seeking an aggregate $247 million electric and gas rate increase in Illinois and expect to file an electric rate increase request in Missouri in the second quarter of 2008 to mitigate these higher cost levels.  Rate relief is not expected to be achieved until late 2008 in Illinois and early 2009 in Missouri.  Until that time, the negative effects of regulatory lag will be experienced.
 
Amerens business segments are expected to contribute to 2008 non-GAAP earnings per share as follows:
 
 
Add two
Amerens guidance for 2008 assumes normal weather and is subject to, among other things, regulatory and legislative decisions, plant operations, energy market and economic conditions, severe storms, unusual or otherwise unexpected gains or losses, and other risks and uncertainties outlined in Amerens Forward-looking Statements.
 
Ameren will host a meeting today for in New York City. Investors, the news media and the public may listen to a live Internet broadcast of the meeting at www.ameren.com beginning at approximately 12:45 p.m. Eastern time (11:45 a.m. Central). The web cast may be accessed by clicking on "Ameren January 2008 Analyst Day," then the appropriate audio link. An accompanying slide presentation will also be available on Amerens Web site. This presentation will be posted in the Investors section of the Web site under Presentations. The analyst meeting will also be available for replay on the Internet for one year.
financial
analysts
and institutional
investors
 
 
With assets of $20 billion, Ameren serves approximately 2.4 million electric customers and almost one million natural gas customers in a 64,000 square mile area of Missouri and Illinois. Ameren owns a diverse mix of electric generating plants strategically located in its Midwest market with a generating capacity of more than 16,400 megawatts.
 
Regulation G Statement
Ameren has presented certain information in this
release
on a diluted cents per share basis. These diluted per share amounts reflect certain factors that directly impact Amerens total earnings per share. The non-GAAP earnings per share and non-GAAP earnings per share guidance excludes one or more of the following:  costs related to severe January 2007 storms,
abnormal weather,
the earnings impact of the settlement agreement among parties in Illinois for comprehensive electric rate relief and customer assistance, the reversal of accruals made in 2006 for low-income energy assistance and energy efficiency program funding commitments in Illinois and a March 2007 FERC order, which retroactively adjusted prior years regional transmission organization costs. Ameren believes this information is useful because it enables readers to better understand the impact of these factors on Amerens results of operations and earnings per share.
In providing non-GAAP earnings guidance and a non-GAAP earnings growth forecast, there could be differences between non-GAAP earnings and earnings prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) for unusual items, such as the 2007
Illinois
electric settlement
and the impact of abnormal weather
.  Except for
the
Illinois
settlement
, Ameren is not able to estimate the impact, if any, on
future
GAAP earnings of these items.  Therefore, Ameren is not able to provide a corresponding GAAP equivalent for its earnings growth rate forecast.
Forward-looking Statements
Statements in this release not
based on historical facts are considered forward-looking and, accordingly, involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed. Although such forward-looking statements have been made in good faith and are based on reasonable assumptions, there is no assurance that the expected results will be achieved. These statements include (without limitation) statements as to future expectations, beliefs, plans, strategies, objectives, events, conditions, and financial performance. In connection with the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, we are providing this cautionary statement to identify important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. The following factors, in addition to those discussed elsewhere in this
release and
in our filings with the
Securities and Exchange Commission
, could cause actual results to differ materially from management expectations as suggested by such forward-looking statements:
 
Given these uncertainties, undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements. Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect new information, future events, or otherwise.
 


