FILE:AEE/AEE-8K-20090724150213.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrants under any of the following provisions:
 
[  ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[  ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
ITEM 8.01  Other Events.
On July 24, 2009, Union Electric Company, doing business as AmerenUE (UE), will be filing a request with the Missouri Public Service Commission (MoPSC) seeking approval to increase its annual revenues for electric service by approximately $402 million.  Included in this increase is approximately $227 million of anticipated increases in normalized net fuel costs above the net fuel costs included in base rates previously authorized by the MoPSC in its January 2009 electric rate order which, absent initiation of this general rate proceeding, would have been reflected in rate adjustments implemented under UEs existing fuel and purchased power cost recovery mechanism (FAC). The balance of the increase request is based primarily on investments made to continue system-wide reliability improvements for customers, increases in costs essential to generating and delivering electricity and higher financing costs. The electric rate increase request is based on an 11.5 percent return on equity, a capital structure composed of 47.4 percent equity, an aggregate rate base for UE of $6.0 billion, and a test year ended March 31, 2009, with certain pro-forma adjustments through the anticipated true-up date of February 28, 2010.
UEs filing includes a request for interim rate relief which, if approved, would place into effect approximately $37.3 million of the requested increase on October 1, 2009, subject to refund with interest based on the final outcome of the rate proceeding. The amount of this interim increase request reflects the increased revenue requirement associated with rate base additions made by UE between October 2008 and May 2009.
As a part of its filing, UE also requested the MoPSC to approve the implementation of an environmental cost recovery mechanism and the continued use of the FAC that the MoPSC previously authorized in its January 2009 electric rate order.  The environmental cost recovery mechanism, if approved, would allow UE to periodically adjust electric rates outside of general rate proceedings to reflect changes in its prudently incurred costs to comply with federal, state or local environmental laws, regulations or rules above or below the amount set in base rates.  Rate adjustments pursuant to this cost recovery mechanism would not be permitted to exceed an annual amount equal to 2.5 percent of UEs gross jurisdictional electric revenues and would be subject to prudency reviews of the MoPSC.  The FAC allows UE to periodically adjust electric rates outside of general rate proceedings to reflect 95 percent of changes in prudently incurred fuel (coal, coal transportation, natural gas for generation and nuclear) and purchased power costs, net of off-system revenues, including Midwest Independent Transmission System Operator, Inc. costs and revenues, above or below the amount set in base rates.
In addition, UEs filing with the MoPSC seeks approval to revise the tariff under which it serves Noranda Aluminum, Inc. (Noranda), UEs largest electric customer, to prospectively address the significant lost revenues UE can incur due to Norandas operational issues at its smelter plant in southeastern Missouri, like the revenue losses resulting from the January 2009 storm-related power outage. The tariff change that UE is proposing would permit it to collect from Noranda the revenue authorized by the MoPSC in this rate case regardless of the level at which the Noranda plant is operating at prospectively. If the plant is operating below the levels assumed in rates, Noranda would receive a credit reflecting any revenues received by UE from energy sales resulting from the decrease in actual energy sales to Noranda. The result would be that UE is able to recover its costs without impacting other customers regardless of Norandas actual energy use.
The MoPSC proceeding relating to the proposed electric service rate changes will take place over a period of up to 11 months and a decision by the MoPSC in such proceeding is required by the end of June 2010.  UE cannot predict the level of any electric service rate change the MoPSC may approve, when any rate change (interim or final) may go into effect, whether the environmental cost recovery mechanism and continuation of the FAC will be approved, or whether any rate increase that may eventually be approved will be sufficient for UE to recover its costs and earn a reasonable return on its investments when the increase goes into effect.  Attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference is the UE press release regarding its filing with the MoPSC.
ITEM 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)  Exhibits
:                    :
Exhibit Number
Title
 
 
-2-
 
 
This combined Form 8-K is being filed separately by Ameren and UE.  Information contained herein relating to any individual registrant has been filed by such registrant on its own behalf.  No registrant makes any representation as to information relating to any other registrant.
 
-3-
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.  The signature for each undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to such company or its subsidiaries.
 
AMEREN CORPORATION
(Registrant)
                                               
/s/ Martin J. Lyons                                                
Martin J. Lyons
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
UNION ELECTRIC COMPANY
(Registrant)
                                        
/s/ Martin J. Lyons                                                 
Martin J. Lyons
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Date:  July 24, 2009
 
 
 
-4-
 
 
Exhibit Index
:                    :
Exhibit Number
Title
-5-

Exhibit 99.1
             
 
 
AmerenUE Requests Increase In Electric Rates To Continue
 
St. Louis, MO, July 24, 2009  AmerenUE, the Missouri utility company of Ameren Corporation (NYSE: AEE), will be filing today a request for an electric rate increase with the Missouri Public Service Commission (MoPSC). If approved in its entirety, the request would mean an increase of less than 50 cents per day for the average household (based on a residential customer average of 1,100 kilowatt hours used each month). Each households increase would vary according to the amount of electricity used.
 
The $402 million request represents an 18 percent increase in rates. Nearly half of the request is primarily driven by investments made to continue system-wide reliability improvements for customers, increases in costs essential to generating and delivering electricity and higher financing costs. The remainder of the request (slightly more than half) is to cover higher fuel costs and lower revenues from sales outside UEs system. The MoPSC will conduct a thorough review of the companys request and offer opportunities for public comment. A final decision is expected by June 2010.
 
 Our customers have told us that reliability is their highest priority, said Warner Baxter, AmerenUE president and chief executive officer. We have listened and responded by making significant reliability improvements, largely through our program, and those investments are working.
Power On
 
While our current rates are among the lowest in the nation, we know that rising costs to meet customer expectations for reliability, as well as federal and state requirements for renewable energy and cleaner air, are going to continue to drive up energy costs, said Baxter. Our current rates simply do not reflect the investments we have made and the costs we are incurring to deliver safe, reliable power to our customers.
 
 
 
 
 Today UEs electric rates are approximately 40 percent below the national average and more than 20 percentbelow the approved electric rates of other investor-owned utilities in the state of Missouri.
 
 
We know these rate increases create hardships for some of our customers, especially during this difficult economic period, Baxter said. As a result, we are taking proactive steps to reduce costs, launching energy efficiency initiatives and providing several energy assistance programs to help customers with their energy costs now and in the future.
 
Our customers expect us to tighten our belts during this challenging economic period, just as they are. As a result, we have already reduced certain planned expenditures in 2009. In addition, we are considering several cost reduction measures, including executive compensation. Over the next two years, we are currently targeting to reduce certain expenditures in excess of $150 million below 2008 levels. However, we will not tighten our belts at the expense of providing safe, reliable service to our customers, added Baxter.
 
To give customers more control over their energy usage and costs, UE recently launched several residential energy efficiency programs, which include purchase incentives for energy efficient lighting and appliances, customer education and partnerships with retailers and contractors, according to Baxter. More information about these programs is available at UEfficiency.com. UEs business efficiency programs launched earlier this year.
 
The goal of the residential and business efficiency programs is to reduce usage by 540 megawatts, the output of a medium-sized coal-fired power plant, by 2025, he said. Our customers will save on their bills, help the environment and defer the need to build an expensive new power plant, said Baxter.
 
Additional tools for all customers include UEs and . also helps customers balance out bills throughout the year, eliminating surprises, particularly in the hot summer months.
Energy Savings Toolkit
Personal Energy Report
Budget Billing
 
For those customers who are least able to afford higher energy costs, Baxter outlined several assistance programs, including
Clean Slate, Dollar More, Low-income Home Weatherization programs and Air Conditioner give-aways.
 
These programs are targeted to help customers with the greatest needs during this difficult economic period, said Baxter. We are pleased to sponsor these initiatives because thousands of families benefit from these programs.
 
 
 
2
 
We will continue to make the best use of every UE asset to provide our customers with safe, reliable and clean energy, said Baxter. This increase is needed to fulfill our commitment to our customers to continue to listen, respond and deliver by providing reliable power, dedicated customer service and vision for a sustainable future.
 
Other features of this request include:
Additional information about this electric rate case will be available on the Ameren Web site ().
www.ameren.com/ueprice
 
AmerenUE serves approximately 1.2 million electric and 127,000 natural gas customers. Ameren Corporation, through its utility companies, serves approximately 2.4 million electric and nearly one million natural gas customers over 64,500 square miles in Missouri and Illinois.
Forward-looking Statements
Statements in this release not based on historical facts are considered forward-looking and, accordingly, involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed. Although such forward-looking statements have been made in good faith and are based on reasonable assumptions, there is no assurance that the expected results will be achieved. These statements include (without limitation) statements as to future expectations, beliefs, plans, strategies, objectives, events, conditions, and financial performance. In connection with the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, we are providing this cautionary statement to identify important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. The following factors, in addition to those discussed elsewhere in this release and in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, could cause actual results to differ materially from management expectations suggested in such forward-looking statements:
 
 
 
3
 
Given these uncertainties, undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements. Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, we undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements to reflect new information or future events.
 
4
 
 


