FILE:AEE/AEE-8K-20091217155634.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For 2010, a target award under the 2010 EIP was established for each Named Executive Officer as a percent of 2010 base salary as shown below.
 
Under the 2010 EIP, EPS (as determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles) is the primary metric used to establish award opportunities. The range of EPS achievement levels for the 2010 EIP (threshold, target and maximum) will be established by the Committee in February 2010. EPS achievement levels may be adjusted to include or exclude specified items of an unusual or non-recurring nature as determined by the Committee at its sole discretion and as permitted by the Ameren Corporation 2006 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan (the "Omnibus Plan"). In the event Ameren EPS is below the threshold achievement level, as determined by the Committee, no award will be paid.
The 2010 EIP award based on achievement of 2010 Ameren EPS (the "base award") for Named Executive Officers may be adjusted up or down by up to 50% (the "individual performance modifier") based on the Named Executive Officers individual contributions and performance during the year, in the Committee's discretion. The individual performance modifier will take into consideration the Named Executive Officers' performance on key performance variables, including leadership, business results, customer satisfaction, reliability, plant availability, safety and/or other performance metrics, as applicable and as determined by the Committee. The actual individual incentive payout, determined by modifying the base award by the individual performance
 
modifier, is capped at 200% of target short-term incentive compensation with the ability to pay zero for non-performance.
On December 10, 2009, the Committee also authorized the issuance pursuant to the Omnibus Plan of performance share unit awards for each of the Named Executive Officers identified on Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto. The target number of performance share units to be issued to each such Named Executive Officer for 2010 pursuant to the Omnibus Plan will be determined as of January 1, 2010 in accordance with the formula set forth in Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto.
Each performance share unit represents the right to receive a share of Ameren's common stock assuming certain performance criteria are achieved. The actual number of performance share units which may be earned will vary from 0% to 200% of the target number of performance share units granted to each Named Executive Officer, based primarily on Ameren's 2010-2012 three-year total shareholder return ("TSR") relative to a utility peer group and continued employment during such three-year period (the "Performance Period"). In the event Ameren's TSR relative to utility peers during the Performance Period is below the 30th percentile, no performance share units will be earned unless the three-year average Ameren EPS reaches or exceeds the average of the Ameren Executive Incentive Plan threshold levels in 2010, 2011 and 2012.
Dividends on performance share units will accrue and be reinvested into additional performance share units throughout the Performance Period. Because these performance share units will be earned only if performance goals over the Performance Period are attained, the amounts, if any, that will be payable to the Named Executive Officers pursuant to the performance share unit awards described above are not determinable at this time. The Committee has the ability to amend the terms of the performance share unit awards, including the performance criteria, to the extent not adverse to the holders of an award.
The form of performance share unit award agreement for 2010 is attached as Exhibit 10.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The award agreements between Ameren and each of the Named Executive Officers provide that upon the occurrence of a "Change of Control" if Ameren continues to exist and its common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") or NASDAQ Stock Market ("NASDAQ") (i) voluntary terminations of employment prior to the end of the performance period or terminations for "Cause" at any time prior to pay out of shares result in forfeiture of awards and (ii) a "qualifying termination" (as defined in the award agreement) of employment during the performance period does not change the manner in which awards are earned and become vested on December 31, 2012 and such awards will be paid in shares of Ameren common stock on January 1, 2013 or as soon as practicable thereafter.
The award agreements referenced above also provide that upon a "Change of Control" which occurs on or before December 31, 2012, if Ameren ceases to exist or its common
 
stock is no longer traded on the NYSE or NASDAQ (i) the target number of performance share units together with accrued dividends thereon will be converted into nonqualified deferred compensation which will accrue interest at the prime rate as provided in the award agreement and, assuming continued employment, such amount will be paid out on January 1, 2013 or as soon as practicable thereafter, (ii) voluntary terminations of employment or terminations for "Cause" result in forfeiture of the amounts described above in (i) of this paragraph and (iii) qualifying terminations of employment result in an immediate payment of the amounts described above in (i) of this paragraph (except as otherwise provided in the awards).
The terms "Change of Control" and "Cause" have the meanings given them in the Second Amended and Restated Ameren Corporation Change of Control Severance Plan, a copy of which was filed as Exhibit 10.37 to Ameren's Annual Report filed on Form 10-K for the 2008 fiscal year.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: December 17, 2009
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
SUMMARY
The Ameren Executive Incentive Plan (EIP) is intended to reward eligible Officers for their contributions to Ameren's success. The EIP rewards Officers for Ameren's earnings per share (EPS) results and individual performance. The EIP is approved by the Human Resources Committee of Ameren's Board of Directors ("Committee"). Ameren reserves the right at its sole discretion to revise, modify, continue or discontinue the EIP beyond the current plan year.
EIP ELIGIBILITY
All Officers who are actively employed on December 31, 2010 are eligible to participate in the EIP pursuant to the terms described herein. Additionally, Officers who terminate employment because they retire, die, become disabled during 2010 (the plan year), or whose employment is involuntarily terminated during the plan year as a result of a reduction in force, elimination of position, or change in strategic demand, are eligible to participate in the EIP pursuant to the terms described herein. Officers who voluntarily or involuntarily terminate employment for any other reason than those reasons described in the prior sentence during the plan year or following the plan year but before awards are paid, forfeit participation in the EIP.
AWARD OPPORTUNITIES
Award opportunity percentages are set by the Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors. Officers will receive individual communication regarding their incentive target opportunity.
PLAN STRUCTURE
The EIP is designed to reward Officers for their contributions to Ameren's success. This is acomplished by rewarding Officers for the achievement of EPS goals and their own personal contributions to Ameren's performance. The EIP has four primary components: (1) EPS targets; (2) a base award; (3) an individual performance modifier; and (4) an individual incentive payout. These components are described in more detail below.
EPS Targets
Ameren Officers have a responsibility to drive shareholder value through earnings performance. Thus, EPS performance is the primary metric used to establish award opportunities.
Three levels of EPS achievement will be established to reward eligible Officers for results achieved in EPS performance. Achievement of EPS falling between the established levels will be interpolated. The three levels are defined as follows:
 
 
 
Base Award
Following the conclusion of the plan year, Ameren's EPS will be measured . Achievement levels may be adjusted to include or exclude specified items of an unusual or non-recurring nature as determined by the Committee at its sole discretion and as permitted by the Ameren Corporation 2006 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan ("Plan"). Using these performance results, a formulaic base award will be determined for each Officer. This base award will then be subject to modification based on the Officer's individual performance as described below.
Individual Performance Modifier
The base award for each Officer may be adjusted up by as much as 50% or down by as much as 50%, based on the Officer's individual contributions and performance during the plan year. Demonstrated leadership and the achievement of key operational goals will be considered when modifying the base award for each Officer.
Individual Incentive Payout
The individual incentive payout represents the actual incentive award an Officer will receive as a result of both Ameren's performance and the Officer's own individual performance. Subject to the terms described herein, the maximum payout under the EIP is 200% of the Officer's target incentive opportunity with the ability to pay zero for poor or non-performance.
EIP PAYOUT
Awards will be paid by March 15, 2011. The base award will be calculated based on an eligible Officer's salary as of December 31, 2010 (or at the time of eligible termination, if earlier). Awards will be prorated based on the amount of time worked during the plan year for eligible Officers who: (1) are hired or become Officers after the plan year begins; (2) terminate employment on account of retirement, disability or death during the plan year; or (3) are involuntarily terminated during the plan year as a result of a reduction in force, elimination of position, or change in strategic demand.
Where an eligible Officer's employment is terminated during the plan year as a result of a reduction in force, elimination of position, or change in strategic demand, the Officer's prorated award will be paid by March 15, 2011, assuming the eligible Officer signed and returned the Company's approved general release and waiver (within 45 days of termination). In such
cases, the prorated award will be based on the Officer's salary at the time of termination, the Officer's target incentive award opportunity and actual year-end EPS performance.
The Committee will review and has the authority to approve the final amount of payment. The final payment granted is final and conclusive and not subject to review.
CONTACT
Questions regarding this plan may be directed to the Manager, Compensation & Talent Acquisition at 314-554-2049.
ADMINISTRATION
This EIP and the employee's rights hereunder are subject to all the terms and conditions of the Plan, as the same may be amended from time to time, as well as to such rules and regulations as the Committee or its designee may adopt for administration of the Plan. The Committee, or its designee, is authorized to administer, construe and make all determinations necessary or appropriate to the administration of this EIP, all of which will be binding upon participants. If any provision of this EIP conflicts in any manner with the Plan, the terms of the Plan shall control.
MISCELLANEOUS
No employee shall have any claim or right to receive an award under this EIP. Neither this EIP nor any action taken hereunder shall be construed as giving an employee any right to be retained by Ameren Corporation or any of its subsidiaries. For purposes of this EIP, the transfer of employment by an employee between subsidiaries shall not be deemed a termination of the employee's employment.

Exhibit 10.2
Performance Share Unit Award Agreement
Ameren Corporation
2006 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan
January 1, 2010
Ameren Corporation
Performance Share Unit Award Agreement
THIS AGREEMENT, effective January 1, 2010, represents the grant of Performance Share Units by Ameren Corporation (the "Company"), to the Participant named below, pursuant to the provisions of the Ameren Corporation 2006 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan (the "Plan"). The number of Shares ultimately earned and paid, if any, for such Performance Share Units will be determined pursuant to Section 3 of this Agreement.
The Plan provides a complete description of the terms and conditions governing the Performance Share Units. If there is any inconsistency between the terms of this Agreement and the terms of the Plan, the Plan's terms will completely supersede and replace the conflicting terms of this Agreement. All capitalized terms will have the meanings ascribed to them in the Plan, unless specifically set forth otherwise herein. The parties hereto agree as follows:
. The individual named below has been selected to be a Participant in the Plan, as specified below:
1. Grant Information
(a) :
Participant
(b) :
Target Number of Performance Share Units
. The performance period begins on January 1, 2010, and ends on December 31, 2012 ("Performance Period").
2. Performance Period
. The number of Performance Share Units earned by the Participant under this Agreement will be determined in accordance with the following grid. If the actual performance results fall between two of the categories listed below, straight-line interpolation will be used to determine the amount earned. Payouts that otherwise would have been more than 100% of Target will be capped at Target if the Company's total shareholder return ("TSR") is negative over the three-year period. TSR shall be calculated in the manner set forth in Exhibit 1 hereto and compared to the peer group identified in Exhibit 1.
3. Performance Grid
 
. The Committee, in its sole discretion, will determine the number of Performance Share Units earned by the Participant at the end of the Performance Period based on the performance of the Company, calculated using the performance grid set forth in Section 3 of this Agreement.
4. Calculation of Earned Performance Share Units
. Subject to provisions set forth in Section 9 of this Agreement related to a Change of Control (as defined in the Second Amended and Restated Ameren Corporation Change of Control Severance Plan, as amended ("the Change of Control Severance Plan")) of the Company and Section 10 relating to termination for Cause (as defined in the Change of Control Severance Plan), the Performance Share Units will vest as set forth below:
5. Vesting of Performance Share Units
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Termination of employment during the Performance Period for any reason other than death, Disability, retirement as described above, or on or after a Change of Control in accordance with Section 9 will require forfeiture of this entire award, with no payment to the Participant.
. All payments of vested Performance Share Units pursuant to this Agreement will be made in the form of Shares. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, payment will be made upon the earliest to occur of the following:
6. Form and Timing of Payment
 
 
. Except as specifically set forth in this Agreement, the Participant shall not have voting or any other rights as a shareholder of the Company with respect to Performance Share Units. The Participant will obtain full voting and other rights as a shareholder of the Company upon the payment of the Performance Share Units in Shares as provided in Section 6 or 9.
7. Right as Shareholder
. The Participant shall be entitled to receive dividend equivalents, which represent the right to receive Shares measured by the dividend payable with respect to the corresponding number of Performance Share Units. Dividend equivalents on Performance Share Units will accrue and be reinvested into additional Performance Share Units throughout the three-year Performance Period. The additional Shares will be paid as set forth in Section 6 or 9 of this Agreement.
8. Dividends
.
9. Change of Control
(a) . Upon a Change of Control which occurs on or before December 31, 2012 in which the Company ceases to exist or is no longer publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange or the NASDAQ Stock Market, the Target Number of Performance Share Units awarded as set forth in Section 1(b) of this Agreement plus the accrued dividends as of the date of the Change of Control shall be converted to nonqualified deferred compensation with the following features:
Company No Longer Exists
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) . If there is a Change of Control of the Company but the Company continues in existence and remains a publicly traded company on the New York Stock Exchange or the NASDAQ Stock Market, the Performance Share Units will pay out upon the earliest to occur of the following:
Company Continues to Exist
 
 
(c) . For purposes of Sections 9(a)(v) and 9(b)(ii), a qualifying termination means (i) an involuntary termination without Cause, (ii) for Change of Control Severance Plan participants, a voluntary termination of employment for Good Reason (as defined in the Change of Control Severance Plan) or (iii) a voluntary termination that qualifies for severance under the Ameren Corporation Severance Plan for Management Employees (as in effect immediately prior to the Change of Control).
Qualifying Termination
(d) . If a Participant qualifies for benefits as provided in the last sentence of Section 4.1 of the Change of Control Severance Plan, or if a Participant is not a Participant in the Change of Control Severance Plan but is terminated within six (6) months prior to the Change of Control and qualifies for severance benefits under the Company's general severance plan and the Participant's termination of employment occurs
Termination in Anticipation of Change of Control
 
before December 31, 2012, then the Participant shall receive (i) upon a Change of Control described in Section 9(a), an immediate cash payout equal to the value of one Share based on the closing price on the New York Stock Exchange on the last trading day prior to the date of the Change of Control multiplied by the sum of the Target Number of Performance Share Units awarded as set forth in Section 1(b) of this Agreement plus the additional Performance Share Units attributable to accrued dividends or (ii) upon a Change of Control described in Section 9(b), the payout provided for in Section 9(b).
. Termination of employment for Cause at any time prior to payout of the Shares will require forfeiture of the entire Performance Share Unit Award, with no distribution of any Shares to the Participant.
10. Termination for Cause
. Performance Share Units awarded pursuant to this Agreement may not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned or otherwise alienated or hypothecated (a "Transfer") other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution, except as provided in the Plan. If any Transfer, whether voluntary or involuntary, of Performance Share Units is made, or if any attachment, execution, garnishment, or lien will be issued against or placed upon the Performance Share Units, the Participant's right to such Performance Share Units will be immediately forfeited to the Company, and this Agreement will lapse.
11. Nontransferability
. The granting of Performance Share Units under the Plan will be subject to all applicable laws, rules, and regulations, and to such approvals by any governmental agencies or national securities exchanges as may be required.
12. Requirements of Law
. The Company will have the power and the right to deduct or withhold, or require the Participant or the Participant's beneficiary to remit to the Company, an amount sufficient to satisfy federal, state, and local taxes, domestic or foreign, required by law or regulation to be withheld with respect to any taxable event arising as a result of this Agreement.
13. Tax Withholding
. With respect to withholding required upon any taxable event arising as a result of Performance Share Units granted hereunder, the Company, unless notified otherwise by the Participant in writing within thirty (30) days prior to the taxable event, will satisfy the tax withholding requirement by withholding Shares having a Fair Market Value equal to the total minimum statutory tax required to be withheld on the transaction. The Participant agrees to pay to the Company, its Affiliates, and/or its Subsidiaries any amount of tax that the Company, its Affiliates, and/or its Subsidiaries may be required to withhold as a result of the Participant's participation in the Plan that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described.
14. Stock Withholding
. This Agreement and the Participant's rights hereunder are subject to all the terms and conditions of the Plan, as the same may be amended from time to time, as well as to such rules and regulations as the Committee may adopt for administration of the Plan. It is expressly understood that the Committee is authorized to administer, construe, and make all determinations necessary or appropriate to the administration of the Plan and this Agreement, all of which will be binding upon the Participant.
15. Administration
. This Agreement will not confer upon the Participant any right to continuation of employment by the Company, its Affiliates, and/or its Subsidiaries, nor will this Agreement interfere in any way with the Company's, its Affiliates', and/or its Subsidiaries' right to terminate the Participant's employment at any time.
16. Continuation of Employment
 
. The Plan is discretionary in nature and the Committee may terminate, amend, or modify the Plan; provided, however, that no such termination, amendment, or modification of the Plan may in any way adversely affect the Participant's rights under this Agreement, without the Participant's written approval.
17. Amendment to the Plan
. The Company may amend this Agreement in any manner, provided that no such amendment may adversely affect the Participant's rights hereunder without the Participant's written approval.
18. Amendment to this Agreement
. All obligations of the Company under the Plan and this Agreement, with respect to the Performance Share Units, will be binding on any successor to the Company, whether the existence of such successor is the result of a direct or indirect purchase, merger, consolidation, or otherwise, of all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company.
19. Successor
. The provisions of this Agreement are severable and if any one or more provisions are determined to be illegal or otherwise unenforceable, in whole or in part, the remaining provisions will nevertheless be binding and enforceable.
20. Severability
. The validity, construction, interpretation, and enforceability of this Agreement will be determined and governed by the laws of the State of Missouri without giving effect to the principles of conflicts of law. For the purpose of litigating any dispute that arises under this Agreement, the parties hereby consent to exclusive jurisdiction and agree that such litigation will be conducted in the federal or state courts of the State of Missouri.
21. Applicable Laws and Consent to Jurisdiction
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Agreement to be executed effective as of January 1, 2010.
 
 
Total Shareholder Return
Total Shareholder Return shall be calculated as follows:
 
Peer Group
Following are the peer group companies. In order to be counted in the final calculations, a company must still have a ticker at the end of the performance period.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
The target number of performance share units to be issued to each Named Executive Officer listed below for 2010 will be determined in accordance with the following formula:
 
 


