FILE:AEE/AEE-8K-20090423103111.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrants under any of the following provisions:
 
[  ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[  ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
ITEM 8.01  Other Events.
Reference is made to Supply for Electric Power in Business under Part I, Item 1, Outlook in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under Part II, Item 7 and to Note 2  Rate and Regulatory Matters and Note 15  Commitments and Contingencies to our financial statements under Part II, Item 8, each in the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 (Form 10-K), of registrant Ameren Corporation (Ameren) and its registrant subsidiary, Union Electric Company, doing business as AmerenUE (UE), for a discussion of actions taken by UE with respect to a potential new nuclear unit at UEs existing Callaway County, Missouri, nuclear plant site.
In the Form 10-K, UE disclosed that it was evaluating its longer-term needs for new baseload and peaking electric generation capacity. At that time, UE did not expect to require new baseload generation capacity until 2018 to 2020. However, due to the significant time required to plan, acquire permits for, and build a baseload power plant, UE was actively studying future plant alternatives, including nuclear.  In July 2008, UE filed a combined construction and operating license application (COLA) with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission for a potential new nuclear unit at UEs existing Callaway County, Missouri, nuclear plant site. Pursuant to the Department of Energys (DOE) procedures, in 2008 UE filed with the DOE Part I and Part II of its application for a loan guarantee to support the potential construction of a new nuclear unit. UE has also signed contracts for COLA services and certain long lead-time nuclear-unit related equipment (heavy forgings). The filing of the COLA and the DOE loan guarantee application and entering into these contracts did not mean a decision had been made to build a new nuclear unit. These were only the first steps in the regulatory licensing and procurement process. They were necessary actions to preserve the option to develop a new nuclear unit to supply power to UEs customers.
In addition, UE disclosed in the Form 10-K that the Missouri Clean and Renewable Energy Construction Act was separately introduced in both the Missouri Senate and House of Representatives in early 2009. These bills were designed to allow the Missouri Public Service Commission to authorize, among other things, utilities to recover the costs of financing and tax payments associated with a new generating plant while that plant is being constructed. UE also stated in the Form 10-K that legislation allowing timely recovery of financing costs during construction must be enacted in order for UE to elect to build a new nuclear unit to meet its baseload generation capacity needs. However, passage of such legislation did not commit or guarantee that UE will elect to build a new nuclear unit.
On April 23, 2009, senior management of UE, announced that they had asked the legislative sponsors of the Missouri Clean and Renewable Energy Construction Act to withdraw the bills from consideration by the General Assembly.  UE believed pursuing the legislation being considered in the Senate in its current form would not give it the financial and regulatory certainty needed to complete the project. As a result, UE announced that it was suspending its efforts to build a new nuclear unit at its existing Missouri nuclear plant site. UE indicated it would continue to look at options for providing the electricity its customers will need in the coming years. UEs press release regarding these events is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
As of March 31, 2009, UE has capitalized approximately $75 million as construction work in progress related to the COLA and heavy forgings.  In addition, UE has remaining contractual commitments of approximately $85 million for the forgings.  The incurred costs will remain capitalized while management assesses all options to maximize the value of its investment in this project.  However, UE cannot at this time predict which option will ultimately be selected, whether any or all of its investment in this project will be realized or whether there will be a material impact on UEs and Amerens results of operations.
ITEM 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
-2-
This combined Form 8-K is being filed separately by Ameren and UE.  Information contained herein relating to any individual registrant has been filed by such registrant on its own behalf.  No registrant makes any representation as to information relating to any other registrant.
-3-
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.  The signature for each undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to such company or its subsidiaries.
 
AMEREN CORPORATION
(Registrant)
By:                                                 
 /s/ Martin J. Lyons                                 
Martin J. Lyons
Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer
UNION ELECTRIC COMPANY
(Registrant)
By:                                          
/s/ Martin J. Lyons                                   
Martin J. Lyons
Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer
Date:  April 23, 2009
 
-4-
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
                                                                
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
ST. LOUIS, MO, April 23, 2009Senior management of AmerenUE, the Missouri operating subsidiary of Ameren Corporation (NYSE: AEE), today announced that they have asked the legislative sponsors of the Missouri Clean and Renewable Energy Construction Act (SB228/HB554) to withdraw the bills from consideration by the General Assembly.
 
We want to thank the visionary leadership in both the Missouri House and Senate, where this legislation won strong initial support in committees in both bodies, said AmerenUE President and Chief Executive Officer Thomas R. Voss.  Many representatives and senators understood the need for acting now to secure Missouris energy independence and security, agreeing with us that allowing these funding mechanisms is best for Missouri.
 
As we were moving forward to preserve the option for nuclear energy for our state, we stressed that we needed financial and regulatory certainty before we could begin construction.  However, the current version of the bill being debated in the Senate strips the legislation of the very provisions we needed most to move forward. As a result, AmerenUE is suspending its efforts to build a nuclear power plant in Missouri.
 
The legislation, as originally proposed, would have allowed regulators to authorize funding mechanisms for construction of clean energy plants in Missouriincluding a nuclear power plant, which UE officials believe offered the best solution for providing reliable, low-cost energy with a reduced carbon footprint.  A key element of the legislation, known as CWIP, or construction work in progress, is a funding plan used across the United States to allow utilities to recover financing costs from customers, while building a new plant.  Current Missouri law prevents Missouri investor-owned utilities from recovering any plant development costs until an energy plant is operating.  This law makes financing a new plant in the current economic environment impossible.
 
-- more - --
 
Add One
 
 We salute the strong leadership of the bill sponsors---Senators Delbert Scott and Frank Barnitz and Representatives Ed Emery and Gina Walsh; of individuals like Hugh McVey, of the AFL-CIO; of officials of cooperative and municipal utilities and associations; and of union, civic and environmental leaders who understood the benefits to customers of this legislation.  They understood the importance of bringing 3,000 jobs and over $6 billion in economic benefits, including significant tax revenues, to the state with this clean energy project.  We also want to thank the hundreds of people who wrote letters supporting this legislation.  These individuals are only some of the many who helped our elected officials understand that this legislation is an essential first step for development of clean energy sources in Missouri.
 
However, Voss said at this point the legislation does not provide the assurances needed for UE to take on a multi-billion dollar project.  A large plant would be difficult to finance under the best of conditions, but in todays credit constrained markets, without supportive state energy policies, we believe getting financial backing for these projects is impossible, he said. Pursuing the legislation in its current form will not give us the financial and regulatory certainty we need to complete this project.
 
While we are disappointed with the outcome of this legislative initiative, the Missouri Clean and Renewable Energy Construction Act sparked a vigorous debate about energy issues and caused everyone involved to think more deeply about energy policy, added Voss. That debate has established a foundation for the constructive energy policy discussions we must continue to have with legislators, regulators, customers and other stakeholders to meet the energy needs of our children and grandchildren in decades to come.  Energy demand in Missouri has increased 50 percent since 1990 and is projected to grow significantly in the next 20 years.
 
Voss added that UE has been a vital part of Missouri for over 100 years. We illuminated the 1904 Worlds Fair.  We built Bagnell Dam at the Lake of the Ozarks during the Great Depression, and since 1984, our Callaway Nuclear Plant has provided safe, reliable, affordable clean energy.  AmerenUE turned on the power yesterday and today and will always work to keep the power on, he said. Now, we will continue looking at options for providing the electricity Missourians will need in coming years.
 
With residential electric retail rates that are approximately 38 percent below the national average, AmerenUE provides electricity and natural gas to 1.2 million customers in Missouri.  With assets of approximately $23 billion, Ameren Corporation () serves 2.4 million electric customers and one million natural gas customers in a 64,000-square-mile area of Missouri and Illinois.
www.ameren.com
 
#           #           #
 
 
Forward-looking Statements
Statements in this release not based on historical facts are considered forward-looking and, accordingly, involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed. Although such forward-looking statements have been made in good faith and are based on reasonable assumptions, there is no assurance that the expected results will be achieved. These statements include (without limitation) statements as to future expectations, beliefs, plans, strategies, objectives, events, conditions, and financial performance. In connection with the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, we are providing this cautionary statement to identify important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. The following factors, in addition to those discussed elsewhere in this release and in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, could cause actual results to differ materially from management expectations suggested in such forward-looking statements:
 
Given these uncertainties, undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements. Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, we undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements to reflect new information or future events.
 


