FILE:AEE/AEE-8K-20090501082620.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
4
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
     [  ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
     [  ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
     [  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
     [  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
ITEM 2.02  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On May 1, 2009, Ameren Corporation (Ameren) issued a press release announcing its earnings for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2009.  The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.  The information furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing of Ameren under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act.
ITEM 8.01  Other Events.
In its press release dated May 1, 2009, Ameren disclosed the following unaudited consolidated financial statements:  Statement of Income for the three months ended March 31, 2009 and March 31, 2008, Statement of Cash Flows for the three months ended March 31, 2009 and March 31, 2008 and Balance Sheet at March 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008.  The foregoing consolidated financial statements are attached as Exhibit 99.2 and Ameren hereby incorporates such consolidated financial statements into this Item 8.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
ITEM 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
 
 
__________________________
 
Exhibit 99.1 is intended to be deemed furnished rather than filed pursuant to General Instruction B.2. of Form 8-K.
2
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Ameren has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
AMEREN CORPORATION
(Registrant)
 
 
   /s/ Martin J. Lyons                                              
By:   Martin J. Lyons
         Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
 
 
Date:  May 1, 2009
 
 
3
 
Exhibit Index
 
 
 
 
__________________________
 
*Exhibit 99.1 is intended to be deemed furnished rather than filed pursuant to General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K.

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
ST. LOUIS, MO., May 1, 2009Ameren Corporation (NYSE: AEE) today announced first quarter 2009 net income in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) of $141 million, or 66 cents per share, compared to first quarter 2008 GAAP net income of $138 million, or 66 cents per share.  Excluding the effects of mark-to-market activity and the 2007 Illinois electric rate relief settlement in each year, Ameren recorded first quarter 2009 core (non-GAAP) net income of $114 million, or 54 cents per share, compared to first quarter 2008 core (non-GAAP) net income of $134 million, or 64 cents per share.
 
A reconciliation of GAAP to core (non-GAAP) earnings per share is as follows:
 
 
The decline in core (non-GAAP) earnings per share in the first quarter of 2009, versus the same period in 2008, was principally due to lower electric and gas sales volumes, higher fuel and related transportation prices, the impact of a severe winter ice storm and the effect of gas rate redesign in the Illinois regulated utility segment.  The items noted above more than offset the benefit to earnings of new utility service rates in Illinois, effective October 1, 2008, and in Missouri, effective March 1, 2009, among other factors.
 
Despite the challenges of the current economic downturn, we remain focused on executing our strategy, said Thomas R. Voss, president and chief executive officer of Ameren Corporation.  That strategy calls for prudently investing in our regulated businesses to meet our customers needs and expectations, achieving constructive regulatory frameworks and returns and optimizing our non-
 
- more - -
 
 
Add 2
 
rate-regulated generating assets.  I expect execution of this strategy will position us to deliver solid, long-term shareholder value.
 
In the first quarter of 2009, milder weather and the absence of a leap day contributed to a 6% decline in kilowatthour sales to residential customers and a 2% sales decline to commercial customers, compared to the year-ago quarter.  Absent these factors, Ameren estimates that first quarter 2009 residential and commercial kilowatthour sales each declined a more modest 1%, versus the year-ago period.  The weak economy significantly impacted industrial electric sales.  They declined 13% from the year-ago quarter, excluding the impact of reduced demand from AmerenUEs largest customer, the Noranda Aluminum, Inc., smelter plant in New Madrid, Missouri.  Norandas plant sustained damage because of a power interruption on non-Ameren-owned power lines during a severe January ice storm.  This loss of operating capacity at Noranda is expected to last through much of 2009.
 
At the non-rate-regulated generation segment, first quarter 2009 earnings were relatively flat, with those of the year-ago quarter.  These 2009 results reflected proactive forward sales of 2009 generation in prior years at higher-than-current market prices.
 
2009 Earnings Guidance
 
Ameren also announced today that it updated its expectations for full-year 2009 earnings.  GAAP earnings for 2009 are now expected to be in the range of $2.63 to $2.98 per share, down from the prior $2.68 to $3.08, and core (non-GAAP) earnings are now expected to be in the range of $2.70 to $3.05 per share, down from the prior $2.75 to $3.15 per share.  An estimated 7 cents per share negative impact in 2009 from the 2007 settlement agreement among parties in Illinois to provide comprehensive electric rate relief and customer assistance is excluded from core (non-GAAP) earnings guidance.  Any net unrealized mark-to-market gains or losses will impact GAAP earnings, but are excluded from GAAP and core (non-GAAP) earnings guidance because the company is unable to reasonably estimate the impact of any such gains or losses.  The updated GAAP and core (non-GAAP) guidance include the effects of a severe January 2009 winter storm, including  an estimate of the related full-year impact of reduced electric margins due to the loss of operating capacity at the Noranda Aluminum smelter plant.  The prior earnings guidance, which was issued in mid-February, had excluded these storm-related impacts.
 
In addition to incorporating the severe storm costs and the estimated impact on electric margins of the related Noranda outage, the revised earnings guidance is also based on higher expected financing costs for new credit facilities and lower expected sales to industrial customers than
 
- more -
 
 
Add 3
 
had been included in the prior guidance.  These negatives are offset, in part, by higher expected long-term sales for resale.
 
Ameren expects its business segments to provide the following contributions to full year 2009 core (non-GAAP) earnings per share:
 
 
Amerens earnings guidance for 2009 assumes normal weather and is subject to, among other things, regulatory decisions and legislative actions, plant operations, energy and capital and credit market conditions, economic conditions, severe storms, unusual or otherwise unexpected gains or losses, and other risks and uncertainties outlined, or referred to, in the Forward-looking Statements section of this press release.
 
Missouri Regulated Operations Earnings
 
Core (non-GAAP) earnings in the first quarter of 2009 were $6 million, down from $45 million in the first quarter of 2008.  This decline was primarily due to lower native load electric sales reflecting the weak economy, milder weather, the outage at the Noranda Aluminum smelter, as well as lower margins on electric off-system sales.  In addition, there were higher distribution system reliability expenses, including storm costs, higher fuel and related transportation costs and a 12-day unscheduled outage at the Callaway Nuclear Plant.  The above negatives were offset, in part, by new, higher electric rates, effective March 1, 2009.  Missouri regulated operations recorded GAAP earnings in the first quarter of 2009 of $23 million, $29 million less than in the first quarter of 2008.  In addition to the items noted above, this GAAP earnings decrease was reduced by net unrealized mark-to-market activity.
 
Illinois Regulated Operations Earnings
 
Core (non-GAAP) earnings in the first quarter of 2009 were $25 million, up from $18 million in the first quarter of 2008.  This increase was primarily due to new, higher electric and natural gas delivery service rates, effective October 1, 2008.  The increase was offset, in part, by lower electric and natural gas sales, reflecting the weak economy and milder weather and the previously discussed seasonal gas rate redesign.  Effective October 1, 2008, the Illinois Commerce Commission authorized a change in the way natural gas distribution costs are recovered from residential and commercial customers.  This rate redesign shifts some revenues from the first quarter to other quarters with no expected impact on full-year earnings.  Illinois regulated operations recorded GAAP earnings in the
 
- more -
 
 
Add 4
 
first quarter of 2009 of $25 million, up $9 million from the first quarter of 2008.  In addition to the items noted above, this GAAP earnings increase was primarily due to lower costs in 2009 related to the 2007 Illinois electric settlement agreement.
 
Non-rate-regulated Generation Operations Earnings
 
Core (non-GAAP) earnings in the first quarter of 2009 were $85 million, versus $80 million in the first quarter of 2008.  This increase in earnings was mainly driven by higher realized margins reflecting proactive forward sales of 2009 generation in prior years and lower plant operations and maintenance expenses.  These positives were partly offset by higher fuel and related transportation prices, among other things.  GAAP earnings from non-rate-regulated generation operations in the first quarter of 2009 were $93 million, compared to $78 million in the first quarter of 2008.  In addition to the items noted above, this increase in GAAP earnings was driven by higher net unrealized mark-to-market gains and lower costs related to the 2007 Illinois electric settlement agreement.
 
Analyst Conference Call
 
Ameren will conduct a conference call for financial analysts at 9:00 a.m. Central Time on Friday, May 1, to discuss first quarter 2009 earnings and other matters.  Investors, the news media and the public may listen to a live Internet broadcast of the call at www.ameren.com by clicking on "Q1 2009 Ameren Corporation Earnings Conference Call," followed by the appropriate audio link.  An accompanying slide presentation will be available on Amerens Web site.  This presentation will be posted in the Investors section of the Web site under Presentations.  The analyst call will also be available for replay on the Internet for one year.  In addition, a telephone playback of the conference call will be available beginning at approximately noon Central Time, from May 1 through May 7, by dialing, U.S. (800) 406-7325; international (303) 590-3030 and entering the number: 4053513#.
 
About Ameren
 
With assets of $23 billion, Ameren serves approximately 2.4 million electric customers and almost one million natural gas customers in a 64,000-square-mile area of Missouri and Illinois.  Ameren owns a diverse mix of electric generating plants strategically located in its Midwest market with a generating capacity of more than 16,400 megawatts
.
 
- more -
 
 
Add 5
 
Regulation G Statement
 
Ameren has presented certain information in this release on a diluted cents per share basis. These diluted per share amounts reflect certain factors that directly impact Amerens total earnings per share. The core (non-GAAP) earnings per share and core (non-GAAP) earnings per share guidance excludes one or more of the following:  the earnings impact of the settlement agreement among parties in Illinois for comprehensive electric rate relief and customer assistance and net mark-to-market gains or losses.  Ameren uses core (non-GAAP) earnings internally for financial planning and for analysis of performance. Ameren also uses core (non-GAAP) earnings as primary performance measurements when communicating with analysts and investors regarding our earnings results and outlook, as the company believes it allows it to more accurately compare the companys ongoing performance across periods.
In providing consolidated and segment core (non-GAAP) earnings guidance, there could be differences between core (non-GAAP) earnings and earnings prepared in accordance with GAAP for certain items, such as those listed above. Ameren is unable to estimate the impact, if any, on future GAAP earnings of such items.
Forward-looking Statements
Statements in this release not based on historical facts are considered forward-looking and, accordingly, involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed. Although such forward-looking statements have been made in good faith and are based on reasonable assumptions, there is no assurance that the expected results will be achieved. These statements include (without limitation) statements as to future expectations, beliefs, plans, strategies, objectives, events, conditions, and financial performance. In connection with the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, we are providing this cautionary statement to identify important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. The following factors, in addition to those discussed elsewhere in this release and in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, could cause actual results to differ materially from management expectations suggested in such forward-looking statements:
 
- more -
 
 
Add 6
 
Given these uncertainties, undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements. Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, we undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements to reflect new information or future events.
 
- more -
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


