FILE:AEE/AEE-8K-20091014094917.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Amended Ameren Deferred Compensation Plan changes the interest crediting rates for deferrals made with respect to plan years commencing on and after January 1, 2010 by executive officers and certain key employees and adds a 401(k) restoration benefit for eligible officers whose total salary and short-term incentive award exceeds the limit on compensation in effect under the Internal Revenue Code (IRC).  Pursuant to the Amended Ameren Deferred Compensation Plan, amounts deferred with respect to plan years beginning January 1, 2010, other than the 401(k) Restoration Benefit (as defined below), earn interest in an amount equal to 120 percent of the applicable federal long-term rate, with annual compounding (as prescribed under the IRC) (AFR) for the December immediately preceding the year of the cash deferral and calculated as of the first day of each applicable plan year on or after January 1, 2010.  Under the Amended Ameren Deferred Compensation Plan, the interest factor to be used on a participants deferral account upon the occurrence of a Change of Control (as defined in the Second Amended and Restated Change of Control Severance Plan, as amended, referenced below) for amounts deferred with respect to plan years beginning January 1, 2010 will also equal 120 percent of the AFR for the December immediately preceding such Change of Control.
 
The 401(k) Restoration Benefit allows eligible officers of Ameren and its subsidiaries, including the named executive officers of Ameren, to also defer a percentage of salary and/or awards under the Ameren Executive Incentive Plan (EIP) in excess of the limit on compensation then in effect under the IRC (currently $245,000), in one percent increments, up to a maximum of six percent of total salary and EIP award (this 401(k) restoration deferral, together with Amerens 401(k) matching credit described below, are referred to collectively as the 401(k) Restoration Benefit).  Under the Amended
 
 
 
-2-
 
Ameren Deferred Compensation Plan, Ameren credits each participating officers deferral account with a matching credit equal to 100 percent of the first three percent of salary and EIP award and 50 percent of the remaining salary and EIP award deferred by the participant, as a 401(k) restoration deferral.  Eligible participants may direct the deemed investment of the 401(k) Restoration Benefit in accordance with the investment options that are generally available under Amerens 401(k) savings plan, except for the Ameren stock fund.
 
A participants benefit will be comprised of separate bookkeeping accounts evidencing his or her interest in each of the investment funds in which contributions and applicable matching contributions have been deemed invested.  While no actual contributions are made to the funds, earnings or losses are calculated using the valuation methodology employed by the record keeper for each of the corresponding funds.  Participants may generally transfer investments among various investment alternatives on a daily basis, subject to the provisions of the Amended Ameren Deferred Compensation Plan.
 
Distributions from the Amended Ameren Deferred Compensation Plan will be paid in cash.  Participants may elect to receive distributions in a single lump sum or in substantially equal annual or monthly installments over a period of 5, 10 or 15 years.
 
Second Amended and Restated Change of Control Severance Plan
 
Ameren adopted a First Amendment to the Second Amended and Restated Ameren Corporation Change of Control Severance Plan (the First Amendment to Change of Control Severance Plan), effective October 9, 2009.  (A copy of the Second Amended and Restated Ameren Corporation Change of Control Severance Plan was filed as Exhibit 10.37 to Amerens Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008.)  The First Amendment to Change of Control Severance Plan amends the plan to exclude participants who first become eligible to participate in the plan on or after October 1, 2009 from receiving certain reimbursement and gross-up payments in connection with any excise taxes that may be imposed on benefits received by the participant from Ameren.
 
The First Amendment to Change of Control Severance Plan is attached as Exhibit 10.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
-3-
Item 9.01   
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
              (d)Exhibits
 
 
 
-4-
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date:  October 14, 2009
 
-5-
 
Exhibit Index
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
WHEREAS, Ameren Corporation amended and restated the Ameren Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan (Plan) effective January 1, 2008;
WHEREAS, Ameren Corporation reserved the right to amend the Plan; and
WHEREAS, effective January 1, 2010, Ameren Corporation desires to amend the Plan to change the interest crediting rates for deferrals made with respect to Plan Years (as defined herein) commencing on and after January 1, 2010 and to add a 401(k) Restoration Benefit (as defined herein);
NOW, THEREFORE, effective January 1, 2010, the Plan is amended and restated as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
2
3
 
 
4
 
compensation for the performance period multiplied by the ratio of the number of days remaining in the performance period after the election over the total number of days in the performance period.  However, an election with respect to an Incentive Award may apply to the entire Incentive Award, if elected by the Participant, and/or be made at a later date if otherwise permitted under Section 5(b).
 
 
 
5
At the time that a Participant makes an election to defer Salary and/or Incentive Awards under the Plan, he shall select a method for the distribution of the balance of that Deferral Account.  Upon Retirement, the balance of each of the Participants Deferral Account(s) shall be distributed to the Participant according to the pay-out method selected by the Participant; provided that, any Deferral Account which is subject to a scheduled payment option pursuant to Section 10 as of the year in which the Participant retires or a year following the year in which a Participant retires shall be paid under Alternative 1.  A Participant may elect to receive his account distribution as a lump sum or in substantially equal installments over a set period up to 15 years.  Under either payment method, a Participant can elect to commence distribution at the time of Retirement or defer such payment(s) until March 1 of the calendar year following Retirement. (For example, a Participant whose Retirement is effective June 1, 2009, may defer payment from his Deferral Account(s) until March 1, 2010.)  Notwithstanding a Participants election, payment of benefits shall not be made or commence under this Section 8 prior to the date which is 6 months after the date of a Participants Retirement in the case of a Participant who is determined to be a Specified Employee at the time of his Retirement.  During such 6-month delay, a Participants Deferral Account will be credited with Interest at the rate determined under Section 7.  Any payments that would have been paid during such 6-month period shall be paid in a lump sum to the Participant as of the day after the last day of such 6-month period, and all other payments following such 6-month period shall be paid in accordance with the terms of the Plan and the Participants election.
 
 
6
 
 
 
7
rules established by the Company.  If a Participant makes such election, then (a) such election shall not take effect until at least 12 months after the date on which such election is made, and submitted to the Company; (b) the first payment with respect to which such election is made shall be deferred for a period of not less than 5 years from the date such payment would otherwise have been made; (c) any election related to a payment that was otherwise to be made at a specified time may not be made less than 12 months prior to the date of the first scheduled payment; and (d) with respect to a change in payment form, such change may not impermissibly accelerate the time or schedule of any payment under the Plan, except as provided in regulations promulgated by the Secretary of Treasury.
 
 
 
 
8
 
Specified Employee at the time of his termination of employment.  In such case, the lump sum amount determined under Section 9.A or 9.B, as appropriate, shall be paid to the Participant as of the day after the last day of such 6-month period.
 
 
 
 
9
 
LTD status may receive a distribution from his Deferral Account(s) prior to attaining age 55.
 
 
10
 
Participants property due to casualty, or other similar extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances arising as a result of events beyond the control of the Participant.
 
 
 
11
 
 
12
 
and beneficiary of any such insurance policy and shall possess and may exercise all incidents of ownership therein.
 
 
 
13
effective unless such termination complies with the restrictions and requirements applicable under Code Section 409A and the regulations promulgated thereunder in effect at the time of such termination.
 
Upon receipt of a claim, the Company shall advise the Claimant that a reply will be forthcoming within 90 days and shall in fact deliver such reply within such period.  However, the Company may extend the reply period for an additional 90 days for reasonable cause.  If the claim is denied in whole or in part, the
 
 
14
 
Company will adopt a written opinion using language calculated to be understood by the Claimant setting forth:
Within 60 days after the receipt by the Claimant of the written opinion described above, the Claimant may request in writing that the Company review its determination.  The Claimant or his duly authorized representative may submit written comments, documents, records or other information relating to the denied claim, which shall be considered in the review under this subsection without regard to whether such information was submitted or considered in the initial benefit determination.  The Claimant or his duly authorized representative shall be provided, upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to, and copies of, all documents, records and other information relevant to his claim.  If the Claimant does not request a review of the Companys determination within such 60-day period, he shall be barred and estopped from challenging its determination.
Within 60 days after the Companys receipt of a request for review, it will review its prior determination.  After considering all materials presented by the Claimant, the Company will render a written opinion setting forth the specific reasons for his decision and containing specific references to the pertinent Plan provisions on which his decision is based.  If special circumstances require that the 60-day period be extended, the Company will so notify the Claimant and will render the decision as soon as possible but not later than 120 days after receipt of the request for review.  If the Company makes an adverse benefit determination on review, the Company will render a written opinion using language calculated to be understood by the Claimant setting forth:
 
 
15
 
 
P.    
:  All provisions of this Plan shall be interpreted in a manner so as to be consistent with Section 409A of the Code and the regulations issued thereunder.
Interpretation of Plan
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the foregoing restatement was adopted on the 12th day of October, 2009.
 
AMEREN SERVICES COMPANY
 
On behalf of AMEREN CORPORATION
 
By:
   /s/ Mark C. Lindgren                       
 
Name:  
  Mark C. Lindgren                        
 
Title:
     Vice President, Corporate HR   
 
 
16

Exhibit 10.2
 
 
WHEREAS, Ameren Corporation (Company) previously established the Second Amended and Restated Ameren Corporation Change of Control Severance Plan, effective October 1, 2008 (Plan); and
 
WHEREAS, effective October 9, 2009, Ameren desires to amend the Plan in certain respects; and
 
WHEREAS, Article VI of the Plan provides that the Board of Directors of the Company (Board) may amend the Plan, as evidenced by a written instrument signed by an authorized officer of the Company;
 
NOW, THEREFORE, effective October 9, 2009, Section 4.4(a) of the Plan is amended to add the following sentence to the end thereof:
 
 
Except as amended by this Amendment, all of the provisions of the Plan shall remain in full force and effect.
 
Capitalized terms used in this Amendment and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Plan.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Board has amended the Plan by the foregoing Amendment, which is adopted on this 12th day of October, 2009.
 
AMEREN SERVICES COMPANY
 
On behalf of AMEREN CORPORATION
 
By:
   /s/ Mark C. Lindgren                       
 
Name:  
  Mark C. Lindgren                        
 
Title:
     Vice President, Corporate HR   
 


