FILE:AEE/AEE-8K-20100802092652.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On August 2, 2010, Ameren Corporation ("Ameren") announced the formation of Ameren Transmission Company ("ATX"), a new direct subsidiary dedicated to electric transmission infrastructure investment. ATX intends to build projects initially within Illinois and Missouri, with the potential for expanding to other areas in the future. Ameren Services Company, on behalf of ATX and Ameren's utility subsidiaries Central Illinois Light Company ("CILCO"), Central Illinois Public Service Company ("CIPS"), Illinois Power Company ("IP") and Union Electric Company ("UE"), will file a petition with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission ("FERC") today requesting approval of certain rate treatments with respect to ATX's proposed initial portfolio of transmission projects, which consists of a collection of high voltage transmission projects in Missouri and Illinois representing a combined investment opportunity of over $1.3 billion. In particular, the FERC petition requested approval of the following rate mechanisms for the initial portfolio of projects:
 
 
 
The FERC is expected to rule on this request within 60 days. We cannot predict whether the FERC will grant some or all of the requested rate mechanisms.
ATX expects to operate as a transmission-owning member of the Midwest Independent Transmission System Operator, Inc., a regional transmission organization serving 13 U.S. states and the Canadian province of Manitoba, including the service territories of CIPS, CILCO, IP and UE. CIPS, CILCO, IP and UE expect to construct and own certain new assets and facilities, including those necessary to connect their existing assets and facilities to new transmission projects developed by ATX.
A copy of a press release regarding the formation of ATX is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
Forward-looking Statements
Statements in this report not based on historical facts are considered "forward-looking" and, accordingly, involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed. Although such forward-looking statements have been made in good faith and are based on reasonable assumptions, there is no assurance that the expected results will be achieved. These statements include (without limitation) statements as to future expectations, beliefs, plans, strategies, objectives, events, conditions, and financial performance. In connection with the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, we are providing this cautionary statement to identify important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. The following factors, in addition to those discussed elsewhere in this report and in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, could cause actual results to differ materially from management expectations suggested in such forward-looking statements:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Given these uncertainties, undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements. Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, we undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements to reflect new information or future events.
 
 
This combined Form 8-K is being filed separately by Ameren, UE, CIPS, CILCO and IP (each a "registrant"). Information contained herein relating to any individual registrant has been filed by such registrant on its own behalf. No registrant makes any representation as to information relating to any other registrant.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. The signature for each undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to such company or its subsidiaries.
 
Date: August 2, 2010
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
St. Louis, Mo., Aug. 2, 2010  Ameren Corporation (NYSE: AEE), announced today the formation of a new subsidiary dedicated to electric transmission infrastructure investment, expanding Ameren's already robust transmission system of more than 7,400 circuit miles of high-voltage transmission lines in Missouri and Illinois.
The new companyAmeren Transmission Company (ATX)will build greenfield transmission projects initially within Illinois and Missouri, with the potential for expanding to other areas in the future. The company has identified more than $3 billion of transmission investment opportunities that could be completed in the two states over the next 10 to 15 years.
Ameren also announced today that it is filing a petition with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) for pre-approval of certain rate treatments for its proposed initial portfolio of transmission projects, the Grand Rivers projects, a collection of high voltage transmission projects in Missouri and Illinois representing a combined investment opportunity of over $1.3 billion. The rate treatments from the FERC are expected to provide a financial structure required for ATX to move forward with strengthening the transmission system on which our region and nation depend. Similar treatments have already been granted by the FERC for similar transmission investments.
"ATX will invest in transmission that will improve reliability, improve access to renewable energy resources, enhance the efficiency of regional energy markets, help pave the way to a smarter grid, and bring significant jobs and other economic benefits to the region," said Thomas R. Voss, chairman, president and chief executive officer of Ameren Corporation.
 
Add One
"We expect the investments of this new company to make our region even more attractive to commerce and industry," he added. "Ameren has long been recognized as having a strategic strength in transmission infrastructure, due, in part, to the geographic position and scope of the existing transmission assets owned by its utility companies. The creation of a separately chartered transmission company highlights our strategic focus on transmission development."
While Ameren's regulated local electric utilities will continue to own existing transmission facilities and related new assets, ATX will invest in, and own, new major transmission projects.
This new structure continues to support Ameren's integrated transmission system, providing coordinated management of all transmission facilities across Ameren companies' 64,000-square-mile service territory.
"Customers can expect to benefit from improved reliability and more efficient energy markets as new lines are built," said newly named ATX President and Chief Executive Officer Maureen Borkowski, who has led Ameren's transmission function since 2005 and has more than 25 years experience in the utility industry. "New transmission development will also help Ameren pursue its environmental goals by supporting the integration of renewable resources to meet renewable portfolio standards both in Illinois and Missouri."
Voss added, "This focus on transmission development is all about our vision of leading the way to a secure energy future and about our commitment to providing safe, reliable, environmentally responsible electricity at a reasonable cost."
Today's petition for rate treatments with the FERC is being filed on behalf of the newly formed transmission company, Ameren Services, and Ameren utility operating companiesAmerenCILCO, AmerenCIPS, AmerenIP and AmerenUE. Borkowski noted, "The rate treatment and cost recovery mechanisms requested from the FERC are necessary to fund these transmission investments. In the long run, this leads to a stronger electric infrastructure and lower rates for customers."
Ameren is requesting approval for the following rate mechanisms for its initial portfolio of Grand Rivers projects:
 
 
Add Two
 
 
The FERC is expected to rule on Ameren's request within 60 days.
ATX expects to operate as a transmission-owning member of the Midwest Independent Transmission System Operator, Inc. (Midwest ISO), a regional transmission organization serving a 13-state region, including the service territories of the Ameren utilities. Several of the Grand Rivers projects are included in the recently announced Midwest ISO multi-value transmission projects. The transmission rates of ATX would be regulated by the FERC under the Midwest ISO tariff.
With assets of approximately $24 billion, Ameren companies serve approximately 2.4 million electric customers and almost one million natural gas customers in a 64,000-square-mile area of Missouri and Illinois.
Forward-looking Statements
Statements in this release not based on historical facts are considered "forward-looking" and, accordingly, involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed. Although such forward-looking statements have been made in good faith and are based on reasonable assumptions, there is no assurance that the expected results will be achieved. These statements include (without limitation) statements as to future expectations, beliefs, plans, strategies, objectives, events, conditions, and financial performance. In connection with the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, we are providing this cautionary statement to identify important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. The following factors, in addition to those discussed elsewhere in this release and in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, could cause actual results to differ materially from management expectations suggested in such forward-looking statements:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Add Three
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Given these uncertainties, undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements. Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, we undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements to reflect new information or future events.


