FILE:AEE/AEE-8K-20101215164140.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For 2011, a target award under the 2011 EIP was established for each Named Executive Officer as a percent of 2011 base salary as shown below.
 
Under the 2011 EIP, EPS (as determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles) is the primary metric used to establish award opportunities. The range of EPS achievement levels for the 2011 EIP (threshold, target and maximum) will be established by the Committee in February 2011. EPS achievement levels may be adjusted to include or exclude specified items of an unusual or non-recurring nature as determined by the Committee at its sole discretion and as permitted by the Ameren Corporation 2006 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan (the "Omnibus Plan"). In the event Ameren EPS is below the threshold achievement level, as determined by the Committee, no award will be paid.
The 2011 EIP award based on achievement of 2011 Ameren EPS (the "base award") for each Named Executive Officer may be adjusted up or down by up to 50% (the "individual performance modifier") based on the Named Executive Officer's individual contributions and performance during the year, in the Committee's discretion. The individual performance modifier will take into consideration the Named Executive Officer's performance on key performance variables, including leadership, business results, customer satisfaction, reliability, plant availability, safety and/or other performance metrics, as applicable and as determined by the Committee. The actual individual incentive payout, determined by modifying the base award by the individual performance modifier, is capped at 200% of target short-term incentive compensation with the ability to pay zero for non-performance.
 
On December 9, 2010, the Committee also authorized the issuance pursuant to the Omnibus Plan of performance share unit awards for each of the Named Executive Officers identified on Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto. The target number of performance share units to be issued to each such Named Executive Officer for 2011 pursuant to the Omnibus Plan will be determined as of January 1, 2011 in accordance with the formula set forth in Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto.
Each performance share unit represents the right to receive a share of Ameren's common stock assuming certain performance criteria are achieved. The actual number of performance share units which may be earned will vary from 0% to 200% of the target number of performance share units granted to each Named Executive Officer, based primarily on Ameren's 2011-2013 three-year total shareholder return ("TSR") relative to a utility peer group and continued employment during such three-year period (the "Performance Period"). In the event Ameren's TSR relative to utility peers during the Performance Period is below the 30th percentile, no performance share units will be earned unless the three-year average Ameren EPS reaches or exceeds the average of the Ameren Executive Incentive Plan threshold levels in 2011, 2012 and 2013.
Dividends on performance share units will accrue and be reinvested into additional performance share units throughout the Performance Period. Because these performance share units will be earned only if performance goals over the Performance Period are attained, the amounts, if any, that will be payable to the Named Executive Officers pursuant to the performance share unit awards described above are not determinable at this time. The Committee has the ability to amend the terms of the performance share unit awards, including the performance criteria, to the extent not adverse to the holders of an award.
The form of performance share unit award agreement for 2011 is attached as Exhibit 10.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The award agreements between Ameren and each of the Named Executive Officers provide that upon the occurrence of a "Change of Control" if Ameren continues to exist and its common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") or NASDAQ Stock Market ("NASDAQ") (i) voluntary terminations of employment prior to the end of the performance period or terminations for "Cause" at any time prior to pay out of shares result in forfeiture of awards and (ii) a "qualifying termination" (as defined in the award agreement) of employment during the performance period does not change the manner in which awards are earned and become vested on December 31, 2013 and such awards will be paid in shares of Ameren common stock on January 1, 2014 or as soon as practicable thereafter.
 
The award agreements referenced above also provide that upon a "Change of Control" which occurs on or before December 31, 2013, if Ameren ceases to exist or its common stock is no longer traded on the NYSE or NASDAQ (i) the target number of performance share units together with accrued dividends thereon will be converted into nonqualified deferred compensation which will accrue interest at the prime rate as provided in the award agreement and, assuming continued employment, such amount will be paid out on January 1, 2014 or as soon as practicable thereafter, (ii) voluntary terminations of employment or terminations for "Cause" result in forfeiture of the amounts described above in (i) of this paragraph and (iii) qualifying terminations of employment result in an immediate payment of the amounts described above in (i) of this paragraph (except as otherwise provided in the awards).
The terms "Change of Control" and "Cause" have the meanings given them in the Second Amended and Restated Ameren Corporation Change of Control Severance Plan, a copy of which was filed as Exhibit 10.37 to Ameren's Annual Report filed on Form 10-K for the 2008 fiscal year.
On December 9, 2010, the Committee approved and on December 10, 2010, the Board ratified an increase to the base salary of Mr. Thomas R. Voss, Ameren's Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, from $817,500 to $900,000, effective as of January 1, 2011, in connection with Mr. Voss' annual performance review. The Committee's decision to adjust Mr. Voss' base salary was based on a number of factors, including but not limited to his performance as Ameren's Chief Executive Officer and the Committee's review of base salary market data for the chief executive officer position at similar regulated utility industry companies. Except as described in this Current Report on Form 8-K, all other material terms and conditions of Mr. Voss' compensatory plans, contracts or arrangements with Ameren remain the same.
 
On December 10, 2010, the By-Laws of Union Electric Company, doing business as Ameren Missouri ("Ameren Missouri"), a subsidiary of Ameren, were amended by action by unanimous written consent of Ameren Missouri's Board of Directors. The principal changes to Article IV of Ameren Missouri's By-Laws:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The complete copy of the Ameren Missouri By-Laws, as amended, is included as Exhibit 3.1(ii).
On December 10, 2010, the Bylaws of Ameren Illinois, a subsidiary of Ameren, were amended by action by unanimous written consent of Ameren Illinois' Board of Directors. The principal changes to Article VI of Ameren Illinois' Bylaws:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The complete copy of the Ameren Illinois Bylaws, as amended, is included as Exhibit 3.2(ii).
On December 10, 2010, the Bylaws of Ameren Energy Generating Company ("Genco"), a subsidiary of Ameren, were amended by action by unanimous written consent of Genco's Board of Directors. The principal changes to Article VI of Genco's Bylaws:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The complete copy of the Genco Bylaws, as amended, is included as Exhibit 3.3(ii).
 
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. The signature for each undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to such company or its subsidiaries.
 
Date: December 15, 2010
 
 
 

Exhibit 3.1(ii)
 
 
 
 
The annual meeting of the shareholders of the Company shall be held on the fourth Tuesday of April in ach year (or if said day be a legal holiday, then on the next succeeding day not a legal holiday), at the registered office of the Company in the City of St. Louis, State of Missouri, or on such other date and at such other place within or without the State of Missouri as may be stated in the notice of meeting, for the purpose of electing directors and of transacting such other business as may properly be brought before the meeting.
Section 1.
Special meetings of the shareholders may be called by the Chief Executive Officer or by the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the total number of directors which the Company would have if there were no vacancies.
Section 2.
Written or printed notice of each meeting of shareholders stating the place, day and hour of the meeting and, in case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called, shall be delivered or given not less than ten nor more than seventy days before the date of the meeting, either personally or by mail, to each shareholder of record entitled to vote thereat, at his address as it appears, if at all, on the records of the Company. Such further notice shall be given by mail, publication or otherwise as may be required by law. Meetings may be held without notice if all the shareholders entitled to vote thereat are present or represented at the meeting, or if notice is waived by those not present or represented.
Section 3.
The holders of record of a majority of the shares of the capital stock of the Company issued and outstanding, entitled to vote thereat, present in person or represented by proxy, shall, except as otherwise provided by law, constitute a quorum at all meetings of the shareholders. If at any meeting there be no such quorum, such holders of a majority of the shares so present or represented may successively adjourn the meeting to a specified date not longer than ninety days after such adjournment, without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until such quorum shall have been obtained, when any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally notified. The chairman of the meeting or a majority of shares so represented may adjourn the meeting from time to time, whether or not there is such a quorum.
Section 4.
Meetings of the shareholders shall be presided over by the Chief Executive Officer or, if he is not present, by the Chairman of the Board of Directors or by the President or, in any event, by such other person as shall be selected for such purpose by the Board of Directors. The Secretary of the Company or, if he is not present, an Assistant Secretary of the Company or, if neither the Secretary nor an Assistant Secretary is present, a secretary pro tem to be designated by the Board of Directors shall act as secretary of the meeting.
Section 5.
At all meetings of the shareholders every holder of record of the shares of the capital stock of the Company, entitled to vote thereat, may vote either in person or by proxy.
Section 6.
At all elections for directors the voting shall be by written ballot. If the object of any meeting be to elect directors or to take a vote of the shareholders on any proposition of which notice shall have been given in the notice of the meeting, the person presiding at such meeting shall appoint not less than two persons, who are not directors, inspectors to receive and canvass the votes given at such meeting. Any inspector, before he shall enter on the duties of his office, shall take and subscribe an oath, in the manner provided by law, that he will execute the duties of inspector at such meeting with strict impartiality and according to the best of his ability. The inspectors shall take charge of the polls and after the balloting shall make a certificate of the result of the vote taken.
Section 7.
(a) (1) Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors of the Company and the proposal of business to be considered by the shareholders may be made at an annual meeting of shareholders (a) pursuant to the Company's notice of meeting, (b) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (c) by any shareholder of the Company who was a shareholder of record at the time of giving of notice provided for in this By-Law, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this By-Law.
Section 8.
(2) For nominations or other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a shareholder pursuant to clause (c) of paragraph (a)(1) of this By-Law, the shareholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Company and such other business must otherwise be a proper matter for shareholder action. To be timely, a shareholder's notice shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Company not later than the close of business on the 60th day nor earlier than the close of business on the 90th day prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is more than 30 days before or more than 60 days after such anniversary date, notice by the shareholder to be timely must be so delivered not earlier than the close of business on the 90th day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 60th day prior to such annual meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made by the Company. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment of an annual meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a shareholder's notice as described above. Such shareholder's notice shall set forth (a) as to each person whom the shareholder proposes to nominate for election or re-election as a director, all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors in an election contest, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") and Rule 14a-11 thereunder (including such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected); (b) as to any other business that the shareholder proposes to bring before the meeting, a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material interest in such business of such shareholder and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made; and (c) as to the shareholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made (i) the name and address of such shareholder, as they appear on the Company's books, and of such beneficial owner and (ii) the class and number of shares of the Company which are owned beneficially and of record by such shareholder and such beneficial owner.
 
(3) Notwithstanding anything in the second sentence of paragraph (a)(2) of this By-Law to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the Board of Directors of the Company is increased and there is no public announcement by the Company naming all of the nominees for director or specifying the size of the increased Board of Directors at least 70 days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a shareholder's notice required by this By-Law shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for any new positions created by such increase, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Company not later than the close of business on the 10th day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the Company.
(b) Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of shareholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Company's notice of meeting. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at a special meeting of shareholders at which directors are to be elected pursuant to the Company's notice of meeting (1) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (2) provided that the Board of Directors has determined that directors shall be elected at such meeting, by any shareholder of the Company who is a shareholder of record at the time of giving of notice provided for in this By-Law, who shall be entitled to vote at the meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this By-Law. In the event the Company calls a special meeting of shareholders for the purpose of electing one or more directors to the Board of Directors, any such shareholder may nominate a person or persons (as the case may be), for election to such position(s) as specified in the Company's notice of meeting, if the shareholder's notice required by paragraph (a)(2) of this By-Law shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Company not earlier than the close of business on the 90th day prior to such special meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 60th day prior to such special meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the Board of Directors to be elected at such meeting. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment of a special meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a shareholder's notice as described above.
 
(c) (1) Only such persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this By-Law shall be eligible to serve as directors and only such business shall be conducted at a meeting of shareholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this By-Law. Except as otherwise provided by law, the Articles of Incorporation of the Company (such articles, as they may be amended and/or restated from time to time being referred to herein as the "Articles of Incorporation") or these By-Laws, the chairman of the meeting shall have the power and duty to determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made or proposed, as the case may be, in accordance with the procedures set forth in this By-Law and, if any proposed nomination or business is not in compliance with this By-Law, to declare that such defective proposal or nomination shall be disregarded.
(2) For purposes of this By-Law, "public announcement" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
(3) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this By-Law, a shareholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this By-Law. Nothing in this By-Law shall be deemed to affect any rights (a) of shareholders to request inclusion of proposals in the Company's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act or (b) of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect directors under specified circumstances.
The property and business of the Company shall be controlled and managed by its Board of Directors. The number of directors to constitute the Board of Directors shall be five; provided, however, that such number may be fixed by the Board of Directors, from time to time, at not less than a minimum of three nor more than a maximum of fourteen (subject to the rights of the holders of Preferred Stock as set forth in the Articles of Incorporation). Any such change shall be reported to the Secretary of State of the State of Missouri within thirty (30) calendar days of such change. Not less than one member of the Board of Directors shall be a bona fide citizen of the State of Missouri. Except as otherwise provided in the Articles of Incorporation, the directors shall hold office until the next annual election and until their successors shall be elected and qualified. A majority of the members of the Board of Directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, but if at any meeting of the Board there shall be less than a quorum present, a majority of the directors present may adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until such quorum shall have been obtained, when any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the original meeting had a quorum been present.
Section 1.
 
Vacancies in the Board of Directors, including vacancies created by newly created directorships, shall be filled in the manner provided in the Articles of Incorporation and, except as otherwise provided therein, the directors so elected shall hold office until their successors shall be elected and qualified.
Section 2.
Meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held at such time and place within or without the State of Missouri as may from time to time be fixed by resolution of the Board, or as may be stated in the notice of any meeting. Regular meetings of the Board shall be held at such time as may from time to time be fixed by resolution of the Board, and notice of such meetings need not be given. Special meetings of the Board may be held at any time upon call of the Chief Executive Officer or the Executive Committee, by oral, telegraphic or written notice, duly given or sent or mailed to each director not less than two (2) days before any such meeting. The notice of any meeting of the Board need not specify the purposes thereof except as may be otherwise required by law. Meetings may be held at any time without notice if all of the directors are present or if those not present waive notice of the meeting, in writing.
Section 3.
The Board of Directors, by the affirmative vote of a majority of the whole Board may appoint an Executive Committee, to consist of two or more directors, one of whom shall be a bona fide citizen of the State of Missouri, as the Board may from time to time determine. The Executive Committee shall have and may exercise to the extent permitted by law, when the Board is not in session, all of the powers vested in the Board, except the power to fill vacancies in the Board, the power to fill vacancies in or to change the membership of said Committee, and the power to make or amend By-Laws of the Company. The Board shall have the power at any time to fill vacancies in, to change the membership of, or to dissolve, the Executive Committee. The Executive Committee may make rules for the conduct of its business and may appoint such committees and assistants as it shall from time to time deem necessary. A majority of the members of the Executive Committee shall constitute a quorum.
Section 4.
The Board of Directors may also appoint one or more other committees to consist of such number of the directors and to have such powers as the Board may from time to time determine. The Board shall have the power at any time to fill vacancies in, to change the membership of, or to dissolve, any such committee. A majority of any such committee may determine its action and fix the time and place of its meetings, unless the Board of Directors shall otherwise provide.
Section 5.
As soon as is practicable after the election of directors at the annual meeting of shareholders, the Board of Directors shall elect one of its members President of the Company, and shall elect a Secretary. The Board may also elect from its members a Chairman of the Board of Directors (which office may be held by the President) and one or more Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors. The Board shall designate either the Chairman, if any, or the President as the Chief Executive Officer of the Company. In addition, the Board may elect one or more Vice Presidents (any one or more of whom may be designated as Senior or Executive Vice Presidents), and a Treasurer, and from time to time may appoint such Assistant Secretaries, Assistant Treasurers and other officers, agents, and employees as it may deem proper. The offices of Secretary and Treasurer may be held by the same person, and a Vice President of the Company may also be either the Secretary or the Treasurer.
Section 1.
 
Between annual elections of officers, the Board of Directors may effect such changes in Company offices as it deems necessary or proper.
Section 2.
Subject to such limitations as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe, the officers of the Company shall each have such powers and duties as generally pertain to their respective offices, as well as such powers and duties as from time to time may be conferred by the Board of Directors or the Executive Committee. The Treasurer and the Assistant Treasurers may be required to give bond for the faithful discharge of their duties, in such sum and of such character as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe.
Section 3.
Each person who now is or hereafter becomes a director, officer or employee of the Company, or who now is or hereafter becomes a director or officer of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise at the request of the Company, shall be entitled to indemnification to the extent permitted by law and these By-Laws. Such right of indemnification shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
(a) The Company shall indemnify any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit, or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, other than an action by or in the right of the Company, by reason of the fact that he is or was a director, officer or employee of the Company, or is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director or officer of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, against expenses, including attorneys' fees, judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by him in connection with such action, suit or proceeding if he acted in good faith and in a manner he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Company, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe his conduct was unlawful. The termination of any action, suit, or proceeding by judgment, order, settlement, conviction, or upon a plea of nolo contendere or its equivalent, shall not, of itself, create a presumption that the person did not act in good faith and in a manner which he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Company, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had reasonable cause to believe that his conduct was unlawful.
Section 1.
(b) The Company shall indemnify any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action or suit by or in the right of the Company to procure a judgment in its favor by reason of the fact that he is or was a director, officer or employee of the Company, or is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director or officer of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against expenses, including attorneys' fees, and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by him in connection with the defense or settlement of the action or suit if he acted in good faith and in a manner he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Company; except that no indemnification shall be made in respect of any claim, issue or matter as to which such person shall have been adjudged to be liable for negligence or misconduct in the performance of his duty to the Company unless and only to the extent that the court in which the action or suit was brought determines upon application that, despite the adjudication of liability and in view of all the circumstances of the case, the person is fairly and reasonably entitled to indemnity for such expenses which the court shall deem proper.
 
(c) To the extent that a director, officer or employee of the Company or a person who is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director or officer of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, has been successful on the merits or otherwise in defense of any action, suit, or proceeding referred to in this Article, or in defense of any claim, issue or matter therein, he shall be indemnified against expenses, including attorneys' fees, actually and reasonably incurred by him in connection with the action, suit, or proceeding.
Unless otherwise expressly provided by the Board of Directors, in no event shall any person who is or was an agent of the Company, or is or was serving at the request of the Company as an employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or enterprise, be entitled to any indemnification by the Company in any action, suit or proceeding, regardless of the fact that such person may have been successful on the merits or otherwise in defense of any action, suit or proceeding, or in defense of any claim, issue or matter therein. The preceding sentence is intended to eliminate any right any such person might otherwise have to be indemnified by the Company pursuant to Section 351.355.3. of the General and Business Corporation Law of Missouri.
(d) Any indemnification under this Article, unless ordered by a court, shall be made by the Company only as authorized in the specific case upon a determination that indemnification of the director, officer or employee is proper in the circumstances because he has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in this Article. The determination shall be made by the Board of Directors by a majority vote of a quorum consisting of directors who were not parties to the action, suit, or proceeding, or if such a quorum is not obtainable, or even if obtainable a quorum of disinterested directors so directs, by independent legal counsel in a written opinion, or by the shareholders.
(a) In addition to the indemnity authorized or contemplated under other Sections of this Article, the Company shall further indemnify to the maximum extent permitted by law, any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit, or proceeding (including appeals), whether civil, criminal, investigative (including private Company investigations), or administrative, including an action by or in the right of the Company, by reason of the fact that the person is or was a director, officer or employee of the Company, or is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director or officer of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, from and against any and all expenses incurred by such person, including, but not limited to, attorneys' fees, judgments, fines, and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by him in connection with such action, suit or proceeding, provided that the Company shall not indemnify any person from or on account of such person's conduct which was finally adjudged to have been knowingly fraudulent, deliberately dishonest or willful misconduct.
Section 2.
 
(b) Where full and complete indemnification is prohibited by law or public policy, any person referred to in Section 1(a) above who would otherwise be entitled to indemnification nevertheless shall be entitled to partial indemnification to the extent permitted by law and public policy. Furthermore, where full and complete indemnification is prohibited by law or public policy, any person referred to in this Article who would otherwise be entitled to indemnification nevertheless shall have a right of contribution to the extent permitted by law and public policy in cases where said party is held jointly or concurrently liable with the Company.
The indemnification provided by Sections 1 and 2 shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which those seeking indemnification may be entitled under the Articles of Incorporation or By-Laws or any agreement, vote of shareholders or disinterested directors or otherwise both as to action in his official capacity and as to action in another capacity while holding such office, and the Company is hereby specifically authorized to provide such indemnification by any agreement, vote of shareholders or disinterested directors or otherwise. The indemnification shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director, officer or employee entitled to indemnification under this Article and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors and administrators of such a person.
Section 3.
The Company is authorized to purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of, or provide another method or methods of assuring payment to, any person who is or was a director, officer or employee of the Company, or is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director or officer of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any liability asserted against him and incurred by him in any capacity, or arising out of his status as such, whether or not the Company would have the power to indemnify him against such liability under the provisions of this Article.
Section 4.
Expenses incurred by a person who is or was serving as a director or officer of the Company or a person who is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director or officer of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, in defending a civil or criminal action, suit or proceeding referred to in Sections 1 and 2 of this Article shall be paid by the Company in advance of the final disposition of the action, suit, or proceeding as shall be authorized by the Board of Directors in the specific case upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of such person to repay such amount unless it shall ultimately be determined that he is entitled to be indemnified by the Company as may be authorized in this Article. Expenses incurred by a person who is or was serving as an employee of the Company in defending a civil or criminal action, suit or proceeding referred to in Sections 1 and 2 of this Article may be paid by the Company in advance of the final disposition of the action, suit, or proceeding as may be authorized by the Board of Directors in the specific case upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of such employee to repay such amount unless it shall ultimately be determined that he is entitled to be indemnified by the Company as authorized in this Article.
Section 5.
 
If any provision or portion of this Article shall be held invalid, illegal or unenforceable for any reason whatsoever, the validity, legality and enforceability of all other provisions and portions not specifically held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, shall not be affected or impaired thereby and shall be construed according to the original intent, to the extent not precluded by applicable law.
Section 6.
For purposes of this Article:
Section 7.
(a) References to "the Company" include all constituent corporations absorbed in a consolidation or merger as well as the resulting or surviving corporation so that any person who is or was a director, officer or employee of such a constituent corporation or is or was serving at the request of such constituent corporation as a director or officer of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise shall stand in the same position under the provisions of this Article with respect to the resulting or surviving corporation as he would if he had served the resulting or surviving corporation in the same capacity.
(b) The term "other enterprise" shall include employee benefit plans; the term "fines" shall include any excise taxes assessed on a person with respect to an employee benefit plan; and the term "serving at the request of the Company" shall be established as specified below in this Section 7(b) and shall include any service as a director, officer or employee of the Company which imposes duties on, or involves services by, such director, officer or employee with respect to an employee benefit plan, its participants, or beneficiaries; and the word "include" or "includes" shall be construed in its expansive sense and not as a limiter; and a person who acted in good faith and in a manner he reasonably believed to be in the interest of the participants and beneficiaries of an employee benefit plan shall be deemed to have acted in a manner "not opposed to the best interests of the Company" as referred to in this Article. For purposes of this Article, "serving at the request of the Company" shall be established solely by (1) express approval by Ameren Corporation's Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of such person's service as a director or officer of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise or (2) the annual review by Ameren Corporation's Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of a list of non-affiliated corporations, partnerships, joint ventures, trusts or other enterprises that Company officers are serving as a director or officer of, so long as the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee does not notify any such officer within 30 days after receiving such list that such person is not serving at the request of the Company. Upon establishing that a person is "serving at the request of the Company" as described under (1) and (2) above, such person's service for purposes of this Article shall begin at the time of his initial service as a director or officer of such other corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise. The obligations of the Company under this Article to provide indemnification or advancement of expenses to a person serving at the request of the Company as a director or officer of another entity shall only apply to the extent that such person is not entitled to or does not receive indemnification or advancement of expenses from such other entity.
 
(c) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in (1) these By-Laws, (2) the By-Laws of Ameren Corporation, (3) the By-Laws of any other majority owned subsidiary of Ameren Corporation or (4) applicable law, the maximum aggregate liability of the Company, Ameren Corporation and any other majority owned subsidiary of Ameren Corporation to any person "serving at the request of the Company," at any time for all aggregate claims for indemnification and advancement of expenses for such person under these By-Laws, the By-Laws of Ameren Corporation, the By-Laws of any other majority owned subsidiary of Ameren Corporation and applicable law, for such service shall for all purposes be limited to $25 million, except as otherwise expressly approved by the Board of Directors. Any payment for indemnification or advancement of expenses by the Company to a person "serving at the request of the Company" under this Article shall be treated as a payment made by Ameren Corporation under its By-Laws for the purpose of determining the maximum liability of Ameren Corporation under Ameren Corporation's By-Laws payable to a person "serving at the request of the Company." In no event shall the limitations of this paragraph (c) be construed to apply to any indemnification or advancement of expenses for any service as a director, officer or employee of the Company which imposes duties on, or involves services by such director, officer or employee with respect to an employee benefit plan of the Company, Ameren Corporation or any other majority owned subsidiary of Ameren Corporation, or any such plan's participants or beneficiaries.
This Article may be hereafter amended or repealed; provided, however, that no amendment or repeal shall reduce, terminate or otherwise adversely affect the right of a person who is or was a director, officer or employee to obtain indemnification or advancement of expenses with respect to an action, suit, or proceeding that pertains to or arises out of actions or omissions that occur prior to the effective date of such amendment or repeal.
Section 8.
The interest of each shareholder of any class of stock of the Company shall not be evidenced by certificates for shares and all shares of all classes of stock shall be uncertificated shares; provided, however, that (a) any shares of stock of the Company represented by a certificate shall continue to be represented by such certificate until such certificate is surrendered to the Company and (b) the Company may, at its option but without obligation, issue certificates for some or all of any shares of some or all of any classes and series of stock as determined by the Company from time to time. The shares of stock of the Company which are to be evidenced by certificates as provided in this By-Law shall be in such form as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe and shall be signed by the Chairman, if any, or the President or a Vice President (including Senior or Executive Vice Presidents) and by the Secretary or Treasurer or an Assistant Secretary or an Assistant Treasurer of the Company and sealed with the seal of the Company and shall be countersigned and registered in such manner if any, as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe. Any or all of the signatures on the certificate may be facsimile and the seal may be facsimile, engraved or printed. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, the certificate may nevertheless be issued by the Company with the same effect as if the person were an officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue. Every holder of uncertificated shares is entitled to receive a statement of holdings as evidence of share ownership. Upon the request of any holder of uncertificated shares, the Company shall also furnish to a holder of uncertificated shares such information as is required pursuant to Section 351.180.6. of the General and Business Corporation Law of Missouri.
Section 1.
 
The shares of stock of the Company shall be transferable only on the books of the Company by the holders thereof in person or by duly authorized attorney, upon delivery of an assignment and power of transfer, duly executed, and with such proof of the authenticity of the signatures as the Company or its agents may reasonably require, and with respect to any shares represented by a certificate upon surrender for cancellation of such certificate.
Section 2.
No shares of stock of the Company shall be transferred if represented by a certificate alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed, except upon production of such evidence of such loss, theft or destruction, and upon the Company being indemnified to such extent and in such manner as the Board of Directors in its discretion may require. No certificate for shares of stock of the Company shall be issued in place of any certificate alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed, except that upon the request of the shareholder the Company may, at its option but without obligation, issue a replacement certificate upon production of such evidence of such loss, theft or destruction, and upon the Company being indemnified to such extent and in such manner as the Board of Directors in its discretion may require.
Section 3.
All determinations by the Company from time to time as to whether the Company shall at its option issue a certificate for any shares of any class or series of stock as provided in this By-Law shall be made by such officers of the Company as may be designated by the Board.
Section 4.
The Board of Directors shall have power to close the stock transfer books of the Company for a period not exceeding seventy days preceding the date of any meeting of shareholders or the date of payment of any dividend or the date for the allotment of rights or the date when any change or conversion or exchange of shares shall go into effect; provided, however, that in lieu of closing the stock transfer books as aforesaid, the Board of Directors may fix in advance a date, not exceeding seventy days preceding the date of any meeting of shareholders, or the date for the payment of any dividend, or the date for the allotment of rights, or the date when any change or conversion or exchange of shares shall go into effect, as a record date for the determination of the shareholders entitled to notice of, and to vote at, any such meeting, and any adjournment thereof, or entitled to receive payment of any such dividend, or entitled to any such allotment of rights, or entitled to exercise the rights in respect of any such change, conversion or exchange of shares. In such case such shareholders and only such shareholders as shall be shareholders of record on the date of closing the stock transfer books or on the record date so fixed shall be entitled to notice of, and to vote at, such meeting, and any adjournments thereof, or to receive payment of such dividend, or to receive such allotment of rights, or to exercise such rights, as the case may be, notwithstanding any transfer of any shares on the books of the Company after such date of closing of the transfer books or such record date fixed as aforesaid.
 
All checks and drafts on the Company's bank accounts and all bills of exchange and promissory notes, and all acceptances, obligations and other instruments for the payment of money, shall be signed by such officer or officers or agent or agents as shall be thereunto authorized from time to time by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors may authorize any such officer or agent to sign and, when the Company's seal is on the instrument, to attest any of the foregoing instruments by the use of a facsimile signature, engraved or printed or otherwise affixed thereto. In case any officer or agent who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon any such instrument for the payment of money shall have ceased to be such officer or agent before such instrument is issued, such instrument may nevertheless be issued by the Company with the same effect as if such officer or agent had not ceased to be such officer or agent at the date of its issue.
The fiscal year of the Company shall begin on the first day of January in each year and shall end on the thirty-first day of December following until otherwise changed by resolution of the Board, and the Board is authorized at any time by resolution to adopt and fix a different fiscal year for the Company.
The corporate seal shall have inscribed thereon the name of the Company and the words "Corporate Seal, Missouri".
 
The By-Laws of the Company may be made, altered, amended, or repealed by the Board of Directors.
Words used herein denoting a specific gender, shall be construed to include any other gender, as applicable in the context.
 

Exhibit 3.2(ii)
Section 1. The interest of each shareholder of any class of stock of Ameren Illinois Company (the "Company") shall not be evidenced by certificates for shares and all shares of all classes of stock shall be uncertificated shares; provided, however, that (a) any shares of stock of the Company represented by a certificate shall continue to be represented by such certificate until such certificate is surrendered to the Company and (b) the Company may, at its option but without obligation, issue certificates for some or all of any shares of some or all of any classes and series of stock as determined by the Company from time to time. The shares of stock of the Company which are to be evidenced by certificates as provided in this Bylaw shall be in such form as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe and shall be signed by the Chairman, if any, or the President or a Vice President (including Senior or Executive Vice Presidents) and by the Secretary or Treasurer or an Assistant Secretary or an Assistant Treasurer of the Company and sealed with the seal of the Company and shall be countersigned and registered in such manner if any, as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe. Any or all of the signatures on the certificate may be facsimile and the seal may be facsimile, engraved or printed. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, the certificate may nevertheless be issued by the Company with the same effect as if the person were an officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue. Every holder of uncertificated shares is entitled to receive a statement of holdings as evidence of share ownership. The Company shall also furnish to a holder of uncertificated shares such information as is required pursuant to Section 5/6.35. of the Illinois Business Corporation Act of 1983, as amended from time to time (the "Illinois Business Corporation Act").
Section 2. The shares of stock of the Company shall be transferable only on the books of the Company by the holders thereof in person or by duly authorized attorney, upon delivery of an assignment and power of transfer, duly executed, and with such proof of the authenticity of the signatures as the Company or its agents may reasonably require, and with respect to any shares represented by a certificate upon surrender for cancellation of such certificate.
Section 3. No shares of stock of the Company shall be transferred if represented by a certificate alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed, except upon production of such evidence of such loss, theft or destruction, and upon the Company being indemnified to such extent and in such manner as the Board of Directors in its discretion may require. No certificate for shares of stock of the Company shall be issued in place of any certificate alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed, except that upon the request of the shareholder the Company may, at its option but without obligation, issue a replacement certificate upon production of such evidence of such loss, theft or destruction, and upon the Company being indemnified to such extent and in such manner as the Board of Directors in its discretion may require.
Section 4. All determinations by the Company from time to time as to whether the Company shall at its option issue a certificate for any shares of any class or series of stock as provided in this Bylaw shall be made by such officers of the Company as may be designated by the Board.
Section 1. The annual meeting of the shareholders shall be held on the fourth Tuesday in April of each year (or if such day shall be a legal holiday, then upon the next succeeding day not a legal holiday) or upon such other day determined by resolution of the Board of Directors. Each such regular annual meeting shall be held at such time and at such location, within or without the State of Illinois, as the Board of Directors shall order. At such annual meeting, a board of directors shall be elected and such other business shall be transacted as may properly come before such meeting.
Section 2. Special meetings of the shareholders may be called by the President, by the Board of Directors, by the holders of not less than one-fifth of all the outstanding shares entitled to vote on the matter for which the meeting is called, or in such other manner as may be provided by statute. Each such special meeting shall be held at such location, within or without the State of Illinois, as the Board of Directors shall order.
Section 3. Written notice of the place, day and hour of each meeting of shareholders and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called, shall be given to each shareholder of record entitled to vote at such meeting. Such notice shall be sent by mail to each such shareholder, at the address of such shareholder as it appears on the records of the Company, not less than ten days or more than sixty days before the date of the meeting, except in cases where some other special method of notice may be required by statute, in which case the statutory method shall be followed. Notice of any meeting of the shareholders may be waived by any shareholder. Attendance of a shareholder (either in person or by proxy) at any meeting shall constitute waiver of notice thereof unless the shareholder (in person or by proxy, as the case may be) at the meeting objects to the holding of the meeting because proper notice was not given.
Section 4. At any shareholders' meeting a majority of the shares outstanding and entitled to vote on the matter (excluding such shares as may be owned by the Company) must be represented (either in person or by proxy) in order to constitute a quorum for consideration of such matter, but the shareholders represented at any meeting, though less than a quorum, may adjourn the meeting to some other day or sine die. If a quorum is present (either in person or by proxy) at a shareholders' meeting, the affirmative vote of the holders of the majority of shares represented at the meeting and entitled to vote on a matter shall be the act of the shareholders, unless the vote of a greater number or voting by classes shall be required by law or the Articles of Incorporation of the Company (such articles, as they may be amended and/or restated from time to time being referred to herein as the "Articles of Incorporation").
 
Section 5. The Chairman of the Board or the President and Secretary of the Company shall act as Chairman and Secretary, respectively, of each shareholders' meeting, unless the Board of Directors shall select other persons for such purposes.
Section 6.(a) (1) Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors of the Company and the proposal of business to be considered by the shareholders may be made at an annual meeting of shareholders (a) pursuant to the Company's notice of meeting, (b) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (c) by any shareholder of the Company who was a shareholder of record at the time of giving of notice provided for in this Bylaw, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Bylaw.
(2) For nominations or other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a shareholder pursuant to clause (c) of paragraph (a)(1) of this Bylaw, the shareholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Company and such other business must otherwise be a proper matter for shareholder action. To be timely, a shareholder's notice shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Company not later than the close of business on the 60th day nor earlier than the close of business on the 90th day prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is more than 30 days before or more than 60 days after such anniversary date, notice by the shareholder to be timely must be so delivered not earlier than the close of business on the 90th day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 60th day prior to such annual meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made by the Company. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment of an annual meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a shareholder's notice as described above. Such shareholder's notice shall set forth (a) as to each person whom the shareholder proposes to nominate for election or re-election as a director, all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors in an election contest, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") and Rule 14a-11 thereunder (including such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected); (b) as to any other business that the shareholder proposes to bring before the meeting, a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material interest in such business of such shareholder and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made; and (c) as to the shareholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made (i) the name and address of such shareholder, as they appear on the Company's books, and of such beneficial owner and (ii) the class and number of shares of the Company which are owned beneficially and of record by such shareholder and such beneficial owner.
 
(3) Notwithstanding anything in the second sentence of paragraph (a)(2) of this Bylaw to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the Board of Directors of the Company is increased and there is no public announcement by the Company naming all of the nominees for director or specifying the size of the increased Board of Directors at least 70 days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a shareholder's notice required by this Bylaw shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for any new positions created by such increase, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Company not later than the close of business on the 10th day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the Company.
(b) Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of shareholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Company's notice of meeting. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at a special meeting of shareholders at which directors are to be elected pursuant to the Company's notice of meeting (1) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (2) provided that the Board of Directors has determined that directors shall be elected at such meeting, by any shareholder of the Company who is a shareholder of record at the time of giving of notice provided for in this Bylaw, who shall be entitled to vote at the meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Bylaw. In the event the Company calls a special meeting of shareholders for the purpose of electing one or more directors to the Board of Directors, any such shareholder may nominate a person or persons (as the case may be), for election to such position(s) as specified in the Company's notice of meeting, if the shareholder's notice required by paragraph (a)(2) of this Bylaw shall be delivered to the Secretary, at the principal executive offices of the Company not earlier than the close of business on the 90th day prior to such special meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 60th day prior to such special meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the Board of Directors to be elected at such meeting. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment of a special meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a shareholder's notice as described above.
(c) (1) Only such persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Bylaw shall be eligible to serve as directors and only such business shall be conducted at a meeting of shareholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Bylaw. Except as otherwise provided by statute, the Articles of Incorporation or these Bylaws, the chairman of the meeting shall have the power and duty to determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made or proposed, as the case may be, in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Bylaw and, if any proposed nomination or business is not in compliance with this Bylaw, to declare that such defective proposal or nomination shall be disregarded.
(2) For purposes of this Bylaw, "public announcement" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
 
(3) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Bylaw, a shareholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this Bylaw. Nothing in this Bylaw shall be deemed to affect any rights (a) of shareholders to request inclusion of proposals in the Company's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act or (b) of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect directors under specified circumstances.
Section 1. The business and affairs of the Company shall be managed by or under the direction of the Board of Directors consisting of not less than three (3) or more than eight (8) members. The exact number of directors within the minimum and maximum limitations specified in the preceding sentence shall be fixed from time to time by the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the entire Board of Directors. The Board of Directors shall be elected at each annual meeting of the shareholders, but, if for any reason the election shall not be held at an annual meeting, it may be subsequently held at any special meeting of the shareholders after proper notice. Directors so elected shall hold office until the next succeeding annual meeting of shareholders or until their respective successors, willing to serve, shall have been elected and qualified. Any vacancy occurring in the Board of Directors arising between meetings of shareholders by reason of an increase in the number of directors or otherwise may be filled by a majority of the members of the Board.
Section 2. A meeting of the Board of Directors shall be held on the same date as the annual meeting of shareholders in each year, at the same place where such annual meeting shall have been held or at such other place as shall be determined by the Board. Regular meetings of the Board shall be held in such place, within or without the State of Illinois, and on such dates each year as shall be established from time to time by the Board. Notice of every such regular meeting of the Board, stating the place, day and hour of the meeting, shall be given to each director personally, or by telegraph or other written means of electronic communication, or by depositing the same in the mails properly addressed, at least two days before the date of such meeting. Except where required by statute, neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any regular or special meeting of the Board need be specified in the notice or waiver of notice of such meeting.
Section 3. Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called at any time by the Chairman of the Board, President, or by a Vice President, when acting as President, or by any two directors. Notice of such meeting, stating the place, day and hour of the meeting shall be given to each director personally in writing, or by telegraph or other written means of electronic communication, or by depositing the same in the mails properly addressed, or orally promptly confirmed by written notice in any one of the aforesaid forms, not less than the day prior to the date of such meeting.
Section 4. Notice of any meeting of the Board may be waived by any director. Attendance of a director at any meeting shall constitute waiver of notice of such meeting except where a director attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting to the transaction of any business at the meeting because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened.
 
Section 5. A majority of the Board of Directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting of the Board, but less than a majority of the Board may adjourn the meeting to some other day or sine die. The act of the majority of the directors present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board unless the vote of a greater number or the vote of any class of directors shall be required by the Articles of Incorporation. The Chief Executive Officer of the Company shall act as Chairman at each meeting of the Board but, in the Chief Executive Officer's absence, the President or one of the directors present at the meeting who shall have been elected for the purpose by majority vote of those directors in attendance shall act as Chairman; and the Secretary of the Company, or in the Secretary's stead, an Assistant Secretary shall act as Secretary at each such meeting. The members of the Board shall receive such compensation as the Board may from time to time by resolution determine.
Section 1. A majority of directors may appoint committees, standing or special, from time to time from among members of the Board, and confer powers on such committees and revoke such powers and terminate the existence of such committees at its pleasure.
Section 2. Meetings of any committee may be called in such manner and may be held at such times and places as such committee may by resolution determine, provided that a meeting of any committee may be called at any time by the President of the Company. Members of all committees shall receive such compensation as the Board of Directors may from time to time by resolution determine.
Section 3. Each committee shall have such authority of the Board of Directors as shall be granted to it by the Board; provided, however, a committee may not take any action not permitted to be taken by a committee pursuant to the Illinois Business Corporation Act.
Section 1. There shall be elected by the Board of Directors (if practicable at its first meeting after the annual election of directors in each year) the following principal officers, namely: A President, such number of Vice Presidents as the Board may from time to time decide upon (any one or more of whom may be designated as Executive Vice President, Senior Vice President or otherwise), a Secretary, a Treasurer and a Controller. References in these Bylaws to Vice Presidents shall include any such Executive Vice President, Senior Vice President or other Vice President, however denominated. The Board may in its discretion also elect a Chairman of the Board and a Chief Operating Officer or such other officers as may from time to time be provided for by the Board. The Chief Executive Officer of the Company shall be the President or Chairman of the Board, as designated by the Board of Directors. In the event that a Chairman of the Board has not been elected, the President shall be the Chief Executive Officer. Any two or more offices may be held by the same person. All officers, unless sooner removed, shall hold their respective offices until the first meeting of the Board of Directors after the next succeeding annual election of directors and until their successors, willing to serve, shall have been elected, but any officer, including any officer appointed by the President as provided in Section 2 of this Article V, may be removed from office at the pleasure of the Board. Election or appointment of an officer shall not of itself create contract rights.
 
Section 2. The President shall have the general management and direction, subject to the control of the Board of Directors, of the business of the Company, including the power to appoint and to remove and discharge any and all assistant officers, agents and employees of the Company not elected or appointed directly by the Board of Directors. The President may execute for and on behalf of the Company any contracts, deeds, mortgages, leases, bonds, or other instruments and may accomplish such execution either under or without the seal of the Company and either individually or with the Secretary, any Assistant Secretary, or any other officer or person thereunto authorized by the Board of Directors, according to the requirements of the form of the instrument. The President shall have such other powers and duties as usually devolve upon the president of a corporation, and such further powers and duties as may from time to time be prescribed by the Board of Directors. The President may delegate any part of the duties of that office to one or more of the Vice Presidents of the Company.
Section 3. Each of the Vice Presidents shall have such powers and duties as may be prescribed for such office by the Board of Directors or as may be prescribed for or delegated to such officer by the President. Each Vice President may execute for and on behalf of the Company any contracts, deeds, mortgages, leases, bonds, or other instruments in each case in accordance with the authority therefor granted by the President or the Board of Directors, which authority may be general or confined to specific instances. Such execution may be accomplished either individually or with any other officer or person thereunto authorized by the President or the Board of Directors, according to the requirements of the form of the instrument. In the absence or inability of the President or in case of the President's death, resignation or removal from office, the powers and duties of the President shall temporarily devolve upon such one of the Vice Presidents as the Board shall have designated or shall designate for the purpose and the Vice President so designated shall have and exercise all the powers and duties of the President during such absence or disability or until the vacancy in the office of President shall be filled. Each Vice President may delegate any part of the duties of that office to employees of the Company under such Vice President's supervision.
Section 4. The Secretary shall attend all meetings of the Board of Directors, shall keep a true and faithful record thereof in proper books to be provided for that purpose, and shall have the custody and care of the corporate seal, records, minutes and stock books of the Company. The Secretary shall also act as Secretary of all shareholders' meetings, and keep a record thereof, except to the extent some other person may have been selected to act as Secretary by such meeting. The Secretary shall keep a suitable record of the addresses of shareholders, shall have general charge of the stock transfer books of the Company, and shall, except as may be otherwise required by statute or by the Bylaws, sign, issue and publish all notices required for meetings of shareholders and for meetings of the Board of Directors. The Secretary shall sign all share certificates, bonds and mortgages, and all other documents and papers to which the Secretary's signature may be necessary or appropriate, shall affix the seal, and shall have such other powers and duties as are commonly incidental to the office of Secretary or as may be prescribed for or delegated to that office by the Board of Directors, by the President, or, if authorized by the Board or the President to prescribe such powers and duties, by a Vice President. The Secretary may delegate any part of the duties of that office to employees of the Company under the Secretary's supervision.
 
Section 5. The Treasurer shall have charge of, and be responsible for, the collection, receipt, custody and disbursement of the funds of the Company, and the deposit of its funds in the name of the Company in such banks, trust companies or safety vaults as the Board of Directors may direct which direction may be general or confined to specific depositories. The Treasurer shall have custody of such books, receipted vouchers and other papers and records as in the practical business operations of the Company shall naturally belong in the office or custody of the Treasurer or as shall be placed in the custody of the Treasurer by the Board of Directors, by the President, or, if authorized by the Board or the President, by a Vice President. The Treasurer shall have such other powers and duties as are commonly incidental to the office of Treasurer or as may be prescribed for or delegated to that office by the Board of Directors, by the President, or, if authorized by the Board or the President to prescribe such powers and duties, by a Vice President. The Treasurer may be required to give a bond to the Company for the faithful discharge of the Treasurer's duties, in such form and in such amount and with such sureties as shall be determined by the Board of Directors. The Treasurer may delegate any part of the Treasurer's duties to employees of the Company under the Treasurer's supervision.
Section 6. The Controller shall, except as otherwise provided in these Bylaws and except as otherwise provided by the Board of Directors, have such powers and duties as are commonly assigned to the office of Controller or as may be prescribed for or delegated to the Controller by the Board of Directors, by the President, or, if authorized by the Board or the President to prescribe such powers and duties, by a Vice President. The Controller may be required to give a bond to the Company for the faithful discharge of the Controller's duties, in such form and in such amount and with such sureties as shall be determined by the Board of Directors. The Controller may delegate any part of the Controller's duties to employees of the Company under the Controller's supervision.
Section 7. The Assistant Vice Presidents, Assistant Secretaries, Assistant Treasurers and Assistant Controllers shall, respectively, assist the Vice Presidents, the Secretary, the Treasurer and the Controller of the Company in the performance of the respective duties assigned to such principal officers and, in assisting the respective principal officer, each assistant officer shall, for such purposes, have the same powers as the respective principal officer. The powers and duties of any principal officer shall, except as otherwise ordered by the Board of Directors, temporarily devolve upon the respective assistant in case of the absence, disability, death, resignation or removal from office of such principal officer.
 
Section 1. The funds of the Company shall be deposited to its credit in such banks or trust companies, as the Board of Directors from time to time shall approve, which approval may be general or confined to specific instances. Such funds shall be withdrawn only on checks or drafts of the Company or by direct, wire or other electronic transfer of funds for the purposes of the Company in accordance with procedures relating to signatures and authorizations by officers of the Company which are approved by the Board of Directors from time to time, which approval may be general or confined to specific instances.
Section 2. No debts shall be contracted except for current expenses unless authorized by the Board of Directors, and no bills shall be paid by the Treasurer unless audited and approved by the Controller or by some other person or committee authorized by the Board of Directors to audit and approve bills for payment.
Section 3. All distributions to shareholders and all acquisitions by the Company of its own shares shall be authorized by the Board of Directors.
Section 4. The fiscal year of the Company shall close at the end of December annually.
Section 5. All or any shares of stock of any corporation owned by the Company may be voted at any meeting of the shareholders of such corporation by the President, any Vice President or the Secretary of the Company upon any question that may be presented at such meeting, and any such officer may, on behalf of the Company, waive any notice of the calling of such meeting required by any statute or Bylaw and consent to the holding of any such meeting without notice. The President, any Vice President or the Secretary of the Company shall have authority to give to any person a written proxy in the name of the Company and under its corporate seal to vote at any meeting of the shareholders of any corporation all or any shares of stock of such corporation owned by the Company upon any question that may be presented at such meeting, with full power to waive any notice of the calling of such meeting required by any statute or Bylaw and to consent to the holding of any such meeting without notice.
Section 6. Each person who now is or hereafter becomes a director, officer or employee of the Company, or who now is or hereafter becomes a director or officer of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise serving at the request of the Company, shall be entitled to indemnification to the extent permitted by law and these Bylaws. Such right of indemnification shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
(a) The Company shall indemnify any person who was or is a party, or is threatened to be made a party to, any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (other than an action by or in the right of the Company) by reason of the fact that such person is or was a director, officer or employee of the Company, or who is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director or officer, of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, against expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by such person in connection with such action, suit or proceeding, if such person acted in good faith and in a manner such person reasonably believed to be in, or not opposed to, the best interests of the Company and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, if such person had no reasonable cause to believe such person's conduct was unlawful. The termination of any action, suit or proceeding by judgment, order, settlement, conviction, or upon a plea of nolo contendere or its equivalent, shall not, of itself, create a presumption that the person did not act in good faith and in a manner which such person reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Company and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, that the person had reasonable cause to believe that such person's conduct was unlawful.
 
(b) The Company shall indemnify any person who was or is a party, or is threatened to be made a party to, any threatened, pending or completed action or suit by or in the right of the Company to procure a judgment in its favor by reason of the fact that such person is or was a director, officer or employee of the Company, or is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director or officer of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, against expenses (including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred by such person in connection with the defense or settlement of such action or suit, if such person being indemnified acted in good faith and in a manner such person reasonably believed to be in, or not opposed to, the best interests of the Company, provided that no indemnification shall be made with respect to any claim, issue, or matter as to which such person has been adjudged to have been liable to the Company, unless, and only to the extent that, the court in which such action or suit was brought shall determine upon application that, despite the adjudication of liability, but in view of all the circumstances of the case, such person is fairly and reasonably entitled to indemnity for such expenses as the court shall deem proper.
(c) To the extent that a director, officer or employee of the Company or a person who is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director or officer of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise has been successful, on the merits or otherwise, in the defense of any action, suit or proceeding referred to in paragraph (a) or (b), or in defense of any claim, issue or matter therein, such person shall be indemnified against expenses (including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred by such person in connection therewith if the person acted in good faith and in a manner he or she reasonably believed to be in, or not opposed to, the best interests of the Company.
(d) Any indemnification under paragraph (a) or (b) (unless ordered by a court) shall be made by the Company only as authorized in the specific case, upon a determination that indemnification of the director, officer or employee is proper in the circumstances because such person has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in paragraph (a) or (b). Such determination shall be made (1) by the Board of Directors by a majority vote of a quorum consisting of directors who were not parties to such action, suit or proceeding, or (2) if such a quorum is not obtainable, or, even if obtainable, if a quorum of disinterested directors so directs, by independent legal counsel in a written opinion, or (3) by the shareholders of the Company.
(e) Where full and complete indemnification is prohibited by law or public policy, any person referred to in paragraph (a) above who would otherwise be entitled to indemnification nevertheless shall be entitled to partial indemnification to the extent permitted by law and public policy. Furthermore, where full and complete indemnification is prohibited by law or public policy, any person referred to in this Section 6 who would otherwise be entitled to indemnification nevertheless shall have a right of contribution to the extent permitted by law and public policy in cases where said party is held jointly or concurrently liable with the Company.
 
(f) Expenses incurred by a person who is or was serving as a director or officer of the Company or a person who is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director or officer of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise referred to in paragraph (a) or (b) in defending a civil or criminal action, suit or proceeding referred to in paragraph (a) or (b) shall be paid by the Company in advance of the final disposition of such action, suit or proceeding, upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of the director or officer, to repay such amount if it shall ultimately be determined that such person is not entitled to be indemnified by the Company as authorized in this Section 6. Expenses incurred by a person who is or was serving as an employee of the Company in defending a civil or criminal action, suit or proceeding referred to in paragraph (a) or (b) may be paid by the Company in advance of the final disposition of the action, suit, or proceeding as may be authorized by the Board of Directors in the specific case upon such terms and conditions, if any, as the Board of Directors deems appropriate.
(g) The indemnification and advancement of expenses provided by or granted under the other paragraphs of this Section 6 shall be effective with respect to acts, errors or omissions occurring prior to, on or subsequent to the date of adoption hereof and such indemnification shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which those seeking indemnification or advancement of expenses may be entitled under any Bylaw, agreement, vote of shareholders or disinterested directors, or otherwise, both as to action by a director, officer, employee or agent in such person's official capacity and as to action in another capacity while holding such office.
(h) The Company may purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person who is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Company, or who is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, against any liability asserted against such person and incurred by such person in any such capacity, or arising out of such person's status as such, whether or not the Company would have the power to indemnify such person against such liability under the provisions of this Section 6.
(i) If the Company has paid indemnity or has advanced expenses to a director, officer or employee under paragraph (b), the Company shall, to the extent required under the Illinois Business Corporation Act, report the indemnification or advance in writing to the shareholders with or before the notice of the next shareholders' meeting.
(j) If any provision or portion of this Section 6 shall be held invalid, illegal or unenforceable for any reason whatsoever, the validity, legality and enforceability of all other provisions and portions not specifically held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, shall not be affected or impaired thereby and shall be construed according to the original intent, to the extent not precluded by applicable law.
 
(k) For purposes of this Section 6 references to "the Company" shall include, in addition to the surviving corporation, any merging corporation (including any corporation having merged with a merging corporation) absorbed in a merger which, if its separate existence had continued, would have had the power and authority to indemnify its directors, officers and employees, so that any person who was a director, officer or employee of such merging corporation, or was serving at the request of such merging corporation as a director or officer of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, shall stand in the same position under the provisions of this Section 6 with respect to the surviving corporation as such person would have with respect to such merging corporation if its separate existence had continued. For purposes of this Section 6, "serving at the request of the Company" shall be established solely by (1) express approval by Ameren Corporation's Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of such person's service as a director or officer of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise or (2) the annual review by Ameren Corporation's Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of a list of non-affiliated corporations, partnerships, joint ventures, trusts or other enterprises that Company officers are serving as a director or officer of, so long as Ameren Corporation's Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee does not notify any such officer within 30 days after receiving such list that such person is not serving at the request of the Company. Upon establishing that a person is "serving at the request of the Company" as described under (1) and (2) above, such person's service for purposes of this Section 6 shall begin at the time of his initial service as a director or officer of such other corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise. The obligations of the Company under this Section 6 to provide indemnification or advancement of expenses to a person serving at the request of the Company as a director or officer of another entity shall only apply to the extent that such person is not entitled to or does not receive indemnification or advancement of expenses from such other entity.
(l) For purposes of this Section 6, references to "other enterprise" shall include employee benefit plans; references to "fines" shall include any excise taxes assessed on a person with respect to employee benefit plans; and references to "serving at the request of the Company" shall be established as specified above in paragraph (k) and shall include any service as a director, officer or employee of the Company which imposes duties on, or involves services by such director, officer or employee, with respect to an employee benefit plan, its participants, or beneficiaries. A person who acted in good faith and in a manner such person reasonably believed to be in the best interests of the participants and beneficiaries of an employee benefit plan shall be deemed to have acted in a manner "not opposed to the best interests of the Company" as referred to in this Section 6.
(m) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in (1) these Bylaws, (2) the By-Laws of Ameren Corporation, (3) the Bylaws of any other majority owned subsidiary of Ameren Corporation or (4) applicable law, the maximum aggregate liability of the Company, Ameren Corporation and any other majority owned subsidiary of Ameren Corporation to any person "serving at the request of the Company," at any time for all aggregate claims for indemnification and advancement of expenses for such person under these Bylaws, the By-Laws of Ameren Corporation, the Bylaws of any other majority owned subsidiary of Ameren Corporation and applicable law, for such service shall for all purposes be limited to $25 million, except as otherwise expressly approved by the Board of Directors. Any payment for indemnification or advancement of expenses by the Company to a person "serving at the request of the Company" under this Section 6 shall be treated as a payment made by Ameren Corporation under its By-Laws for the purpose of determining the maximum liability of Ameren Corporation under Ameren Corporation's By-Laws payable to a person "serving at the request of the Company." In no event shall the limitations of this paragraph (m) be construed to apply to any indemnification or advancement of expenses for any service as a director, officer or employee of the Company which imposes duties on, or involves services by such director, officer or employee with respect to an employee benefit plan of the Company, Ameren Corporation or any other majority owned subsidiary of Ameren Corporation, or any such plan's participants or beneficiaries.
 
(n) The indemnification and advancement of expenses provided by or granted under this Section 6 shall, unless otherwise provided when authorized or ratified, continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director, officer or employee and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors, and administrators of that person.
(o) This Section 6 may be hereafter amended or repealed; provided, however, that no amendment or repeal shall reduce, terminate or otherwise adversely affect the right of a person who is or was a director, officer or employee to obtain indemnification or advancement of expenses with respect to an action, suit, or proceeding that pertains to or arises out of actions or omissions that occur prior to the effective date of such amendment or repeal.
These Bylaws may be added to, amended or repealed by the Board of Directors at any regular or special meeting of the Board.
 

Exhibit 3.3(ii)
Section 1. Each holder of duly paid shares of Ameren Energy Generating Company (the "Company") shall be entitled to a certificate or certificates stating the number and class of shares owned by such holder. Such certificates shall be signed by the appropriate officers of the Company (which, in the absence of contrary action by the Board, shall be the President or any Vice President and the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary of the Company); shall be sealed with the corporate seal of the Company, which seal may be facsimile; and shall be countersigned by a Transfer Agent, and countersigned and registered by a Registrar, appointed by the Board. If a certificate is countersigned by a Transfer Agent and countersigned and registered by a Registrar, other (in each case) than the Company itself or its employee, the signature of either or both of such officers of the Company, and the countersignature of any such Transfer Agent or its officer or employee, may be facsimiles. In case any officer of the Company, or any officer or employee of a Transfer Agent, who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon any such certificate shall cease to be an officer of the Company or an officer or an employee of the Transfer Agent, as the case may be, before such certificate is issued, the certificate may be issued by the Company with the same effect as if such officer of the Company or such officer or employee of the Transfer Agent had not ceased to be such at the date of issue of such certificate.
Section 2. Shares shall be transferable only on the books of the Company and upon proper endorsement and surrender of the outstanding certificate or certificates representing such shares. If an outstanding certificate shall be lost, destroyed or stolen, the holder thereof may have a new certificate upon producing evidence satisfactory to the Company of such loss, destruction or theft and upon furnishing to the Company, the Transfer Agent and the Registrar indemnity deemed sufficient by the Company.
Section 3. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Article I, the Board of Directors may also provide by resolution that some or all of any or all classes and series of its shares shall be uncertificated shares, provided that such resolution shall not apply to shares represented by a certificate until such certificate is surrendered to the Company. Except as otherwise provided by statute, the rights and obligations of the holders of uncertificated shares and the rights and obligations of the holders of certificates representing shares of the same class and series shall be identical.
Section 1. The annual meeting of the shareholders shall be held on the fourth Tuesday in May of each year (or if such day shall be a legal holiday, then upon the next succeeding day not a legal holiday) or upon such other day determined by resolution of the Board of Directors. Each such regular annual meeting shall be held at such time and at such location, within or without the State of Illinois, as the Board of Directors shall order. At such annual meeting, a board of directors shall be elected and such other business shall be transacted as may properly come before such meeting.
Section 2. Special meetings of the shareholders may be called by the President, by the Board of Directors, by the holders of not less than one-fifth of all the outstanding shares entitled to vote on the matter for which the meeting is called, or in such other manner as may be provided by statute. Each such special meeting shall be held at such location, within or without the State of Illinois, as the Board of Directors shall order.
Section 3. Written notice of the place, day and hour of each meeting of shareholders and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called, shall be given to each shareholder of record entitled to vote at such meeting. Such notice shall be sent by mail to each such shareholder, at the address of such shareholder as it appears on the records of the Company, not less than ten days or more than sixty days before the date of the meeting, except in cases where some other special method of notice may be required by statute, in which case the statutory method shall be followed. Notice of any meeting of the shareholders may be waived by any shareholder. Attendance of a shareholder (either in person or by proxy) at any meeting shall constitute waiver of notice thereof unless the shareholder (in person or by proxy, as the case may be) at the meeting objects to the holding of the meeting because proper notice was not given.
Section 4. At any shareholders' meeting a majority of the shares outstanding and entitled to vote on the matter (excluding such shares as may be owned by the Company) must be represented (either in person or by proxy) in order to constitute a quorum for consideration of such matter, but the shareholders represented at any meeting, though less than a quorum, may adjourn the meeting to some other day or sine die. If a quorum is present (either in person or by proxy) at a shareholders' meeting, the affirmative vote of the holders of the majority of shares represented at the meeting and entitled to vote on a matter shall be the act of the shareholders, unless the vote of a greater number or voting by classes shall be required by law or the Articles of Incorporation of the Company (such articles, as they may be amended and/or restated from time to time being referred to herein as the "Articles of Incorporation").
Section 5. The President and Secretary of the Company shall act as Chairman and Secretary, respectively, of each shareholders' meeting, unless the shareholders represented at the meeting shall otherwise decide.
 
Section 1. The business and affairs of the Company shall be managed by or under the direction of the Board of Directors consisting of a minimum of three (3) or not more than eight (8) members. The exact number of directors within the minimum and maximum limitations specified in the preceding sentence shall be fixed from time to time by the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the entire Board of Directors. The Board of Directors shall be elected at each annual meeting of the shareholders, but, if for any reason the election shall not be held at an annual meeting, it may be subsequently held at any special meeting of the shareholders after proper notice. Directors so elected shall hold office until the next succeeding annual meeting of shareholders or until their respective successors, willing to serve, shall have been elected and qualified. Any vacancy occurring in the Board of Directors arising between meetings of shareholders by reason of an increase in the number of directors or otherwise may be filled by a majority of the members of the Board.
Section 2. A meeting of the Board of Directors shall be held on the same date as the annual meeting of shareholders in each year, at the same place where such annual meeting shall have been held or at such other place as shall be determined by the Board. Regular meetings of the Board shall be held in such place, within or without the State of Illinois, and on such dates each year as shall be established from time to time by the Board. Notice of every such regular meeting of the Board, stating the place, day and hour of the meeting, shall be given to each director personally, or by telegraph or other written means of electronic communication, or by depositing the same in the mails properly addressed, at least two days before the date of such meeting. Except where required by statute, neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any regular or special meeting of the Board need be specified in the notice or waiver of notice of such meeting.
Section 3. Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called at any time by the President, or by a Vice President, when acting as President, or by any two directors. Notice of such meeting, stating the place, day and hour of the meeting shall be given to each director personally in writing, or by telegraph or other written means of electronic communication, or by depositing the same in the mails properly addressed, or orally promptly confirmed by written notice in any one of the aforesaid forms, not less than the day prior to the date of such meeting.
Section 4. Notice of any meeting of the Board may be waived by any director. Attendance of a director at any meeting shall constitute waiver of notice of such meeting except where a director attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting to the transaction of any business at the meeting because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened.
Section 5. A majority of the Board of Directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting of the Board, but less than a majority of the Board may adjourn the meeting to some other day or sine die. The act of the majority of the directors present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board unless the vote of a greater number or the vote of any class of directors shall be required by the Articles of Incorporation. The President of the Company shall act as Chairman at each meeting of the Board but, in the President's absence, one of the directors present at the meeting who shall have been elected for the purpose by majority vote of those directors in attendance shall act as Chairman; and the Secretary of the Company, or in the Secretary's stead, an Assistant Secretary shall act as Secretary at each such meeting. The members of the Board shall receive such compensation as the Board may from time to time by resolution determine.
 
Section 1. A majority of directors may appoint committees, standing or special, from time to time from among members of the Board, and confer powers on such committees and revoke such powers and terminate the existence of such committees at its pleasure.
Section 2. Meetings of any committee may be called in such manner and may be held at such times and places as such committee may by resolution determine, provided that a meeting of any committee may be called at any time by the President of the Company. Members of all committees shall receive such compensation as the Board of Directors may from time to time by resolution determine.
Section 3. Each committee shall have such authority of the Board of Directors as shall be granted to it by the Board; provided, however, a committee may not take any action not permitted to be taken by a committee pursuant to the Illinois Business Corporation Act of 1983, as amended from time to time (the "Illinois Business Corporation Act").
Section 1. There shall be elected by the Board of Directors (if practicable at its first meeting after the annual election of directors in each year) the following principal officers, namely: A President, such number of Vice Presidents as the Board may from time to time decide upon (any one or more of whom may be designated as Executive Vice President, Senior Vice President or otherwise), a Secretary and a Treasurer. References in these Bylaws to Vice Presidents shall include any such Executive Vice President, Senior Vice President or other Vice President, however denominated. The Board may in its discretion also elect such other officers as may from time to time be provided for by the Board. Any two or more offices may be held by the same person. All officers, unless sooner removed, shall hold their respective offices until the first meeting of the Board of Directors after the next succeeding annual election of directors and until their successors, willing to serve, shall have been elected, but any officer, including any officer appointed by the President as provided in Section 2 of this Article V, may be removed from office at the pleasure of the Board. Election or appointment of an officer shall not of itself create contract rights.
 
Section 2. The President shall be the chief executive officer of the Company and shall have the general management and direction, subject to the control of the Board of Directors, of the business of the Company, including the power to appoint and to remove and discharge any and all assistant officers, agents and employees of the Company not elected or appointed directly by the Board of Directors. The President may execute for and on behalf of the Company any contracts, deeds, mortgages, leases, bonds, or other instruments and may accomplish such execution either under or without the seal of the Company and either individually or with the Secretary, any Assistant Secretary, or any other officer or person thereunto authorized by the Board of Directors, according to the requirements of the form of the instrument. The President shall have such other powers and duties as usually devolve upon the president of a corporation, and such further powers and duties as may from time to time be prescribed by the Board of Directors. The President may delegate any part of the duties of that office to one or more of the Vice Presidents of the Company.
Section 3. Each of the Vice Presidents shall have such powers and duties as may be prescribed for such office by the Board of Directors or as may be prescribed for or delegated to such officer by the President. Each Vice President may execute for and on behalf of the Company any contracts, deeds, mortgages, leases, bonds, or other instruments in each case in accordance with the authority therefor granted by the President or the Board of Directors, which authority may be general or confined to specific instances. Such execution may be accomplished either individually or with any other officer or person thereunto authorized by the President or the Board of Directors, according to the requirements of the form of the instrument. In the absence or inability of the President or in case of the President's death, resignation or removal from office, the powers and duties of the President shall temporarily devolve upon such one of the Vice Presidents as the Board shall have designated or shall designate for the purpose and the Vice President so designated shall have and exercise all the powers and duties of the President during such absence or disability or until the vacancy in the office of President shall be filled. Each Vice President may delegate any part of the duties of that office to employees of the Company under such Vice President's supervision.
Section 4. The Secretary shall attend all meetings of the Board of Directors, shall keep a true and faithful record thereof in proper books to be provided for that purpose, and shall have the custody and care of the corporate seal, records, minutes and stock books of the Company. The Secretary shall also act as Secretary of all shareholders' meetings, and keep a record thereof, except to the extent some other person may have been selected to act as Secretary by such meeting. The Secretary shall keep a suitable record of the addresses of shareholders, shall have general charge of the stock transfer books of the Company, and shall, except as may be otherwise required by statute or by the Bylaws, sign, issue and publish all notices required for meetings of shareholders and for meetings of the Board of Directors. The Secretary shall sign all share certificates, bonds and mortgages, and all other documents and papers to which the Secretary's signature may be necessary or appropriate, shall affix the seal, and shall have such other powers and duties as are commonly incidental to the office of Secretary or as may be prescribed for or delegated to that office by the Board of Directors, by the President, or, if authorized by the Board or the President to prescribe such powers and duties, by a Vice President. The Secretary may delegate any part of the duties of that office to employees of the Company under the Secretary's supervision.
 
Section 5. The Treasurer shall have charge of, and be responsible for, the collection, receipt, custody and disbursement of the funds of the Company, and the deposit of its funds in the name of the Company in such banks, trust companies or safety vaults as the Board of Directors may direct which direction may be general or confined to specific depositories. The Treasurer shall have custody of such books, receipted vouchers and other papers and records as in the practical business operations of the Company shall naturally belong in the office or custody of the Treasurer or as shall be placed in the custody of the Treasurer by the Board of Directors, by the President, or, if authorized by the Board or the President, by a Vice President. The Treasurer shall have such other powers and duties as are commonly incidental to the office of Treasurer or as may be prescribed for or delegated to that office by the Board of Directors, by the President, or, if authorized by the Board or the President to prescribe such powers and duties, by a Vice President. The Treasurer may be required to give a bond to the Company for the faithful discharge of the Treasurer's duties, in such form and in such amount and with such sureties as shall be determined by the Board of Directors. The Treasurer may delegate any part of the Treasurer's duties to employees of the Company under the Treasurer's supervision.
Section 6. The Assistant Vice Presidents, Assistant Secretaries and Assistant Treasurers shall, respectively, assist the Vice Presidents, the Secretary and the Treasurer of the Company in the performance of the respective duties assigned to such principal officers and, in assisting the respective principal officer, each assistant officer shall, for such purposes, have the same powers as the respective principal officer. The powers and duties of any principal officer shall, except as otherwise ordered by the Board of Directors, temporarily devolve upon the respective assistant in case of the absence, disability, death, resignation or removal from office of such principal officer.
Section 1. The funds of the Company shall be deposited to its credit in such banks or trust companies, as the Board of Directors from time to time shall approve, which approval may be general or confined to specific instances. Such funds shall be withdrawn only on checks or drafts of the Company or by direct, wire or other electronic transfer of funds for the purposes of the Company in accordance with procedures relating to signatures and authorizations by officers of the Company which are approved by the Board of Directors from time to time, which approval may be general or confined to specific instances.
Section 2. No loans shall be contracted on behalf of the Company and no evidences of indebtedness shall be issued in its name except for current expenses unless authorized by the Board of Directors. Such authority may be general or confined to specific instances.
Section 3. The Board of Directors may authorize any officer or officers, agent or agents to enter into any contract or execute and deliver any instrument in the name of and on behalf of the Company, and such authority may be general or confined to specific instances.
Section 4. All distributions to shareholders and all acquisitions by the Company of its own shares shall be authorized by the Board of Directors.
 
Section 5. The fiscal year of the Company shall close at the end of December annually.
Section 6. All or any shares of stock of any corporation owned by the Company may be voted at any meeting of the shareholders of such corporation by the President, any Vice President or the Secretary of the Company upon any question that may be presented at such meeting, and any such officer may, on behalf of the Company, waive any notice of the calling of such meeting required by any statute or Bylaw and consent to the holding of any such meeting without notice. The President, any Vice President or the Secretary of the Company shall have authority to give to any person a written proxy in the name of the Company and under its corporate seal to vote at any meeting of the shareholders of any corporation all or any shares of stock of such corporation owned by the Company upon any question that may be presented at such meeting, with full power to waive any notice of the calling of such meeting required by any statute or Bylaw and to consent to the holding of any such meeting without notice.
Section 7. Each person who now is or hereafter becomes a director, officer or employee of the Company, or who now is or hereafter becomes a director or officer of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise serving at the request of the Company, shall be entitled to indemnification to the extent permitted by law and these Bylaws. Such right of indemnification shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
(a) The Company shall indemnify any person who was or is a party, or is threatened to be made a party to, any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (other than an action by or in the right of the Company) by reason of the fact that such person is or was a director, officer or employee of the Company, or who is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director or officer of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, against expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by such person in connection with such action, suit or proceeding, if such person acted in good faith and in a manner such person reasonably believed to be in, or not opposed to, the best interests of the Company and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, if such person had no reasonable cause to believe such person's conduct was unlawful. The termination of any action, suit or proceeding by judgment, order, settlement, conviction, or upon a plea of nolo contendere or its equivalent, shall not, of itself, create a presumption that the person did not act in good faith and in a manner which such person reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Company and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, that the person had reasonable cause to believe that such person's conduct was unlawful.
(b) The Company shall indemnify any person who was or is a party, or is threatened to be made a party to, any threatened, pending or completed action or suit by or in the right of the Company to procure a judgment in its favor by reason of the fact that such person is or was a director, officer or employee of the Company, or is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director or officer of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, against expenses (including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred by such person in connection with the defense or settlement of such action or suit, if such person being indemnified acted in good faith and in a manner such person reasonably believed to be in, or not opposed to, the best interests of the Company, provided that no indemnification shall be made with respect to any claim, issue, or matter as to which such person has been adjudged to have been liable to the Company, unless, and only to the extent that, the court in which such action or suit was brought shall determine upon application that, despite the adjudication of liability, but in view of all the circumstances of the case, such person is fairly and reasonably entitled to indemnity for such expenses as the court shall deem proper.
 
(c) To the extent that a director, officer or employee of the Company or a person who is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director or officer of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise has been successful, on the merits or otherwise, in the defense of any action, suit or proceeding referred to in paragraph (a) or (b), or in defense of any claim, issue or matter therein, such person shall be indemnified against expenses (including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred by such person in connection therewith if the person acted in good faith and in a manner he or she reasonably believed to be in, or not opposed to, the best interests of the Company.
(d) Any indemnification under paragraph (a) or (b) (unless ordered by a court) shall be made by the Company only as authorized in the specific case, upon a determination that indemnification of the director, officer or employee is proper in the circumstances because such person has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in paragraph (a) or (b). Such determination shall be made (1) by the Board of Directors by a majority vote of a quorum consisting of directors who were not parties to such action, suit or proceeding, or (2) if such a quorum is not obtainable, or, even if obtainable, if a quorum of disinterested directors so directs, by independent legal counsel in a written opinion, or (3) by the shareholders of the Company.
(e) Where full and complete indemnification is prohibited by law or public policy, any person referred to in paragraph (a) above who would otherwise be entitled to indemnification nevertheless shall be entitled to partial indemnification to the extent permitted by law and public policy. Furthermore, where full and complete indemnification is prohibited by law or public policy, any person referred to in this Section 7 who would otherwise be entitled to indemnification nevertheless shall have a right of contribution to the extent permitted by law and public policy in cases where said party is held jointly or concurrently liable with the Company.
(f) Expenses incurred by a person who is or was serving as a director or officer of the Company or a person who is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director or officer of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise referred to in paragraph (a) or (b) in defending a civil or criminal action, suit or proceeding referred to in paragraph (a) or (b) shall be paid by the Company in advance of the final disposition of such action, suit or proceeding, upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of such person to repay such amount if it shall ultimately be determined that such person is not entitled to be indemnified by the Company as authorized in this Section 7. Expenses incurred by a person who is or was serving as an employee of the Company in defending a civil or criminal action, suit or proceeding referred to in paragraph (a) or (b) may be paid by the Company in advance of the final disposition of the action, suit, or proceeding as may be authorized by the Board of Directors in the specific case upon such terms and conditions, if any, as the Board of Directors deems appropriate.
 
(g) The indemnification and advancement of expenses provided by or granted under the other paragraphs of this Section 7 shall be effective with respect to acts, errors or omissions occurring prior to, on or subsequent to the date of adoption hereof and such indemnification shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which those seeking indemnification or advancement of expenses may be entitled under any Bylaw, agreement, vote of shareholders or disinterested directors, or otherwise, both as to action by a director, officer, employee or agent in such person's official capacity and as to action in another capacity while holding such office.
(h) The Company may purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person who is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Company, or who is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, against any liability asserted against such person and incurred by such person in any such capacity, or arising out of such person's status as such, whether or not the Company would have the power to indemnify such person against such liability under the provisions of this Section 7.
(i) If the Company has paid indemnity or has advanced expenses to a director, officer or employee under paragraph (b), the Company shall, to the extent required under the Illinois Business Corporation Act, report the indemnification or advance in writing to the shareholders with or before the notice of the next shareholders' meeting.
(j) If any provision or portion of this Section 7 shall be held invalid, illegal or unenforceable for any reason whatsoever, the validity, legality and enforceability of all other provisions and portions not specifically held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, shall not be affected or impaired thereby and shall be construed according to the original intent, to the extent not precluded by applicable law.
(k) For purposes of this Section 7 references to "the Company" shall include, in addition to the surviving corporation, any merging corporation (including any corporation having merged with a merging corporation) absorbed in a merger which, if its separate existence had continued, would have had the power and authority to indemnify its directors, officers and employees, so that any person who was a director, officer or employee of such merging corporation, or was serving at the request of such merging corporation as a director or officer of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, shall stand in the same position under the provisions of this Section 7 with respect to the surviving corporation as such person would have with respect to such merging corporation if its separate existence had continued. For purposes of this Section 7, "serving at the request of the Company" shall be established solely by (1) express approval by Ameren Corporation's Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of such person's service as a director or officer of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise or (2) the annual review by Ameren Corporation's Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of a list of non-affiliated corporations, partnerships, joint ventures, trusts or other enterprises that Company officers are serving as a director or officer of, so long as Ameren Corporation's Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee does not notify any such officer within 30 days after receiving such list that such person is not serving at the request of the Company. Upon establishing that a person is "serving at the request of the Company" as described under (1) and (2) above, such person's service for purposes of this Section 7 shall begin at the time of his initial service as a director or officer of such other corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise. The obligations of the Company under this Section 7 to provide indemnification or advancement of expenses to a person serving at the request of the Company as a director or officer of another entity shall only apply to the extent that such person is not entitled to or does not receive indemnification or advancement of expenses from such other entity.
 
(l) For purposes of this Section 7, references to "other enterprise" shall include employee benefit plans; references to "fines" shall include any excise taxes assessed on a person with respect to employee benefit plans; and references to "serving at the request of the Company" shall be established as specified above in paragraph (k) and shall include any service as a director, officer or employee of the Company which imposes duties on, or involves services by such director, officer or employee with respect to an employee benefit plan, its participants, or beneficiaries. A person who acted in good faith and in a manner such person reasonably believed to be in the best interests of the participants and beneficiaries of an employee benefit plan shall be deemed to have acted in a manner "not opposed to the best interests of the Company" as referred to in this Section 7.
(m) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in (1) these Bylaws, (2) the By-Laws of Ameren Corporation, (3) the Bylaws of any other majority owned subsidiary of Ameren Corporation or (4) applicable law, the maximum aggregate liability of the Company, Ameren Corporation and any other majority owned subsidiary of Ameren Corporation to any person "serving at the request of the Company," at any time for all aggregate claims for indemnification and advancement of expenses for such person under these Bylaws, the By-Laws of Ameren Corporation, the Bylaws of any other majority owned subsidiary of Ameren Corporation and applicable law, for such service shall for all purposes be limited to $25 million, except as otherwise expressly approved by the Board of Directors. Any payment for indemnification or advancement of expenses by the Company to a person "serving at the request of the Company" under this Section 7 shall be treated as a payment made by Ameren Corporation under its By-Laws for the purpose of determining the maximum liability of Ameren Corporation under Ameren Corporation's By-Laws payable to a person "serving at the request of the Company." In no event shall the limitations of this paragraph (m) be construed to apply to any indemnification or advancement of expenses for any service as a director, officer or employee of the Company which imposes duties on, or involves services by such director, officer or employee with respect to an employee benefit plan of the Company, Ameren Corporation or any other majority owned subsidiary of Ameren Corporation, or any such plan's participants or beneficiaries.
(n) The indemnification and advancement of expenses provided by or granted under this Section 7 shall, unless otherwise provided when authorized or ratified, continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director, officer or employee and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors, and administrators of that person.
(o) This Section 7 may be hereafter amended or repealed; provided, however, that no amendment or repeal shall reduce, terminate or otherwise adversely affect the right of a person who is or was a director, officer or employee to obtain indemnification or advancement of expenses with respect to an action, suit or proceeding that pertains to or arises out of actions or omissions that occur prior to the effective date of such amendment or repeal.
 
These Bylaws may be added to, amended or repealed by the Board of Directors at any regular or special meeting of the Board.
 

Exhibit 10.1
SUMMARY
The Ameren Executive Incentive Plan (EIP) is intended to reward eligible Officers for their contributions to Ameren's success. The EIP rewards Officers for Ameren's earnings per share (EPS) results and individual performance. The EIP is approved by the Human Resources Committee of Ameren's Board of Directors ("Committee"). Ameren reserves the right at its sole discretion to revise, modify, continue or discontinue the EIP beyond the current plan year.
EIP ELIGIBILITY
All Officers who are actively employed on December 31, 2011 are eligible to participate in the EIP pursuant to the terms described herein. Additionally, Officers who terminate employment because they retire, die, become disabled during 2011 (the plan year), or whose employment is involuntarily terminated during the plan year as a result of a reduction in force, elimination of position, or change in strategic demand, are eligible to participate in the EIP pursuant to the terms described herein. Officers who voluntarily or involuntarily terminate employment for any other reason than those reasons described in the prior sentence during the plan year or following the plan year but before awards are paid, forfeit participation in the EIP
.
AWARD OPPORTUNITIES
Award opportunity percentages are set by the Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors. Officers will receive individual communication regarding their incentive target opportunity.
PLAN STRUCTURE
The EIP is designed to reward Officers for their contributions to Ameren's success. This is accomplished by rewarding Officers for the achievement of EPS goals and their own personal contributions to Ameren's performance. The EIP has four primary components: (1) EPS targets; (2) a base award; (3) an individual performance modifier; and (4) an individual incentive payout. These components are described in more detail below.
EPS Targets
Ameren Officers have a responsibility to drive shareholder value through earnings performance. Thus, EPS performance is the primary metric used to establish award opportunities.
 
Three levels of EPS achievement will be established to reward eligible Officers for results achieved in EPS performance. Achievement of EPS falling between the established levels will be interpolated. The three levels are defined as follows:
 
 
 
Base Award
Following the conclusion of the plan year, Ameren's EPS will be measured . Achievement levels may be adjusted to include or exclude specified items of an unusual or non-recurring nature as determined by the Committee at its sole discretion and as permitted by the Ameren Corporation 2006 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan ("Plan"). Using these performance results, a formulaic base award will be determined for each Officer. This base award will then be subject to modification based on the Officer's individual performance as described below.
Individual Performance Modifier
The base award for each Officer may be adjusted up by as much as 50% or down by as much as 50%, based on the Officer's individual contributions and performance during the plan year. Demonstrated leadership and the achievement of key operational goals will be considered when modifying the base award for each Officer.
Individual Incentive Payout
The individual incentive payout represents the actual incentive award an Officer will receive as a result of both Ameren's performance and the Officer's own individual performance. Subject to the terms described herein, the maximum payout under the EIP is 200% of the Officer's target incentive opportunity with the ability to pay zero for poor or non-performance.
EIP PAYOUT
Awards will be paid by March 15, 2012.
Job Changes During Plan Year
Awards will be prorated in situations where an Officer's salary (excluding merit increases), incentive target opportunity, performance metric and/or plan eligibility changes during the plan year. In such situations, the Officer's base award will be prorated based on the Officer's salary, incentive target opportunity, performance metric and plan eligibility for each respective time period during the plan year. In the case of a merit increase, the new salary will be used to calculate the employee's base award.
Partial Year Plan Participation
The base award will be calculated based on an eligible Officer's salary as of December 31, 2011 (or at the time of eligible termination, if earlier). Awards will be prorated based on the amount of time worked during the plan year for eligible Officers who: (1) are hired or become Officers after the plan year begins; (2) terminate employment on account of retirement, disability or death during the plan year; or (3) are involuntarily terminated during the plan year as a result of a reduction in force, elimination of position, or change in strategic demand.
 
Where an eligible Officer's employment is terminated during the plan year as a result of a reduction in force, elimination of position, or change in strategic demand, the Officer's prorated award will be paid by March 15, 2012, assuming the eligible Officer signed and returned the Company's approved general release and waiver (within 45 days of termination). In such cases, the prorated award will be based on the Officer's salary at the time of termination, the Officer's target incentive award opportunity and actual year-end EPS performance.
The Committee will review and has the authority to approve the final amount of payment. The final payment granted is final and conclusive and not subject to review.
CONTACT
Questions regarding this plan may be directed to the Manager, Compensation & Talent Acquisition at 314-554-2049.
ADMINISTRATION
This EIP and the employee's rights hereunder are subject to all the terms and conditions of the Plan, as the same may be amended from time to time, as well as to such rules and regulations as the Committee or its designee may adopt for administration of the Plan. The Committee, or its designee, is authorized to administer, construe and make all determinations necessary or appropriate to the administration of this EIP, all of which will be binding upon participants. If any provision of this EIP conflicts in any manner with the Plan, the terms of the Plan shall control.
MISCELLANEOUS
No employee shall have any claim or right to receive an award under this EIP. Neither this EIP nor any action taken hereunder shall be construed as giving an employee any right to be retained by Ameren Corporation or any of its subsidiaries. For purposes of this EIP, the transfer of employment by an employee between subsidiaries shall not be deemed a termination of the employee's employment.
 

Exhibit 10.2
 
Ameren Corporation
Performance Share Unit Award Agreement
THIS AGREEMENT, effective January 1, 2011, represents the grant of Performance Share Units by Ameren Corporation (the "Company"), to the Participant named below, pursuant to the provisions of the Ameren Corporation 2006 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan (the "Plan"). The number of Shares ultimately earned and paid, if any, for such Performance Share Units will be determined pursuant to Section 3 of this Agreement.
The Plan provides a complete description of the terms and conditions governing the Performance Share Units. If there is any inconsistency between the terms of this Agreement and the terms of the Plan, the Plan's terms will completely supersede and replace the conflicting terms of this Agreement. All capitalized terms will have the meanings ascribed to them in the Plan, unless specifically set forth otherwise herein. The parties hereto agree as follows:
. The individual named below has been selected to be a Participant in the Plan, as specified below:
1. Grant Information
 
 
. The performance period begins on January 1, 2011, and ends on December 31, 2013 ("Performance Period").
2. Performance Period
. The number of Performance Share Units earned by the Participant under this Agreement will be determined in accordance with the following grid. If the actual performance results fall between two of the categories listed below, straight-line interpolation will be used to determine the amount earned. Payouts that otherwise would have been more than 100% of Target will be capped at Target if the Company's total shareholder return ("TSR") is negative over the three-year period. TSR shall be calculated in the manner set forth in Exhibit 1 hereto and compared to the peer group identified in Exhibit 1.
3. Performance Grid
 
. The Committee, in its sole discretion, will determine the number of Performance Share Units earned by the Participant at the end of the Performance Period based on the performance of the Company, calculated using the performance grid set forth in Section 3 of this Agreement.
4. Calculation of Earned Performance Share Units
. Subject to provisions set forth in Section 9 of this Agreement related to a Change of Control (as defined in the Second Amended and Restated Ameren Corporation Change of Control Severance Plan, as amended (the "Change of Control Severance Plan")) of the Company and Section 10 relating to termination for Cause (as defined in the Change of Control Severance Plan), the Performance Share Units will vest as set forth below:
5. Vesting of Performance Share Units
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Termination of employment during the Performance Period for any reason other than death, Disability, retirement as described above, or on or after a Change of Control in accordance with Section 9 will require forfeiture of this entire award, with no payment to the Participant.
. All payments of vested Performance Share Units pursuant to this Agreement will be made in the form of Shares. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, payment will be made upon the earliest to occur of the following:
6. Form and Timing of Payment
 
 
. Except as specifically set forth in this Agreement, the Participant shall not have voting or any other rights as a shareholder of the Company with respect to Performance Share Units. The Participant will obtain full voting and other rights as a shareholder of the Company upon the payment of the Performance Share Units in Shares as provided in Section 6 or 9.
7. Right as Shareholder
. The Participant shall be entitled to receive dividend equivalents, which represent the right to receive Shares measured by the dividend payable with respect to the corresponding number of Performance Share Units. Dividend equivalents on Performance Share Units will accrue and be reinvested into additional Performance Share Units throughout the three-year Performance Period. The additional Shares will be paid as set forth in Section 6 or 9 of this Agreement.
8. Dividends
.
9. Change of Control
(a) . Upon a Change of Control which occurs on or before December 31, 2013 in which the Company ceases to exist or is no longer publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange or the NASDAQ Stock Market, the Target Number of Performance Share Units awarded as set forth in Section 1(b) of this Agreement plus the accrued dividends as of the date of the Change of Control shall be converted to nonqualified deferred compensation with the following features:
Company No Longer Exists
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) . If there is a Change of Control of the Company but the Company continues in existence and remains a publicly traded company on the New York Stock Exchange or the NASDAQ Stock Market, the Performance Share Units will pay out upon the earliest to occur of the following:
Company Continues to Exist
 
 
(c) . For purposes of Sections 9(a)(v) and 9(b)(ii), a qualifying termination means (i) an involuntary termination without Cause, (ii) for Change of Control Severance Plan participants, a voluntary termination of employment for Good Reason (as defined in the Change of Control Severance Plan) or (iii) an involuntary termination that qualifies for severance under the Ameren Corporation Severance Plan for Management Employees (as in effect immediately prior to the Change of Control).
Qualifying Termination
(d) . If a Participant qualifies for benefits as provided in the last sentence of Section 4.1 of the Change of Control Severance Plan, or if a Participant is not a Participant in the Change of Control Severance Plan but is terminated within six (6) months prior to the Change of Control and qualifies for severance benefits under the Company's general severance plan and the Participant's termination of employment occurs before December 31, 2013, then the Participant shall receive (i) upon a Change of Control described in Section 9(a), an immediate cash payout equal to the value of one Share based on the closing price on the New York Stock Exchange on the last trading day prior to the date of the Change of Control multiplied by the sum of the Target Number of Performance Share Units awarded as set forth in Section 1(b) of this Agreement plus the additional Performance Share Units attributable to accrued dividends or (ii) upon a Change of Control described in Section 9(b), the payout provided for in Section 9(b).
Termination in Anticipation of Change of Control
 
Termination of employment for Cause at any time prior to payout of the Shares will require forfeiture of the entire Performance Share Unit Award, with no distribution of any Shares to the Participant.
10. Termination for Cause.
. Performance Share Units awarded pursuant to this Agreement may not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned or otherwise alienated or hypothecated (a "Transfer") other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution, except as provided in the Plan. If any Transfer, whether voluntary or involuntary, of Performance Share Units is made, or if any attachment, execution, garnishment, or lien will be issued against or placed upon the Performance Share Units, the Participant's right to such Performance Share Units will be immediately forfeited to the Company, and this Agreement will lapse.
11. Nontransferability
. The granting of Performance Share Units under the Plan will be subject to all applicable laws, rules, and regulations, and to such approvals by any governmental agencies or national securities exchanges as may be required.
12. Requirements of Law
. The Company will have the power and the right to deduct or withhold, or require the Participant or the Participant's beneficiary to remit to the Company, an amount sufficient to satisfy federal, state, and local taxes, domestic or foreign, required by law or regulation to be withheld with respect to any taxable event arising as a result of this Agreement.
13. Tax Withholding
. With respect to withholding required upon any taxable event arising as a result of Performance Share Units granted hereunder, the Company, unless notified otherwise by the Participant in writing within thirty (30) days prior to the taxable event, will satisfy the tax withholding requirement by withholding Shares having a Fair Market Value equal to the total minimum statutory tax required to be withheld on the transaction. The Participant agrees to pay to the Company, its Affiliates and/or its Subsidiaries any amount of tax that the Company, its Affiliates and/or its Subsidiaries may be required to withhold as a result of the Participant's participation in the Plan that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described.
14. Stock Withholding
. This Agreement and the Participant's rights hereunder are subject to all the terms and conditions of the Plan, as the same may be amended from time to time, as well as to such rules and regulations as the Committee may adopt for administration of the Plan. It is expressly understood that the Committee is authorized to administer, construe, and make all determinations necessary or appropriate to the administration of the Plan and this Agreement, all of which will be binding upon the Participant.
15. Administration
. This Agreement will not confer upon the Participant any right to continuation of employment by the Company, its Affiliates, and/or its Subsidiaries, nor will this Agreement interfere in any way with the Company's, its Affiliates', and/or its Subsidiaries' right to terminate the Participant's employment at any time.
16. Continuation of Employment
 
. The Plan is discretionary in nature and the Committee may terminate, amend, or modify the Plan; provided, however, that no such termination, amendment, or modification of the Plan may in any way adversely affect the Participant's rights under this Agreement, without the Participant's written approval.
17. Amendment to the Plan
. The Company may amend this Agreement in any manner, provided that no such amendment may adversely affect the Participant's rights hereunder without the Participant's written approval.
18. Amendment to this Agreement
. All obligations of the Company under the Plan and this Agreement, with respect to the Performance Share Units, will be binding on any successor to the Company, whether the existence of such successor is the result of a direct or indirect purchase, merger, consolidation, or otherwise, of all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company.
19. Successor
. The provisions of this Agreement are severable and if any one or more provisions are determined to be illegal or otherwise unenforceable, in whole or in part, the remaining provisions will nevertheless be binding and enforceable.
20. Severability
. The validity, construction, interpretation and enforceability of this Agreement will be determined and governed by the laws of the State of Missouri without giving effect to the principles of conflicts of law. For the purpose of litigating any dispute that arises under this Agreement, the parties hereby consent to exclusive jurisdiction and agree that such litigation will be conducted in the federal or state courts of the State of Missouri.
21. Applicable Laws and Consent to Jurisdiction
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Agreement to be executed effective as of January 1, 2011.
 
 
Total Shareholder Return
Total Shareholder Return shall be calculated as follows:
 
Peer Group
Following are the peer group companies. In order to be counted in the final calculations, a company must still have a ticker at the end of the performance period.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
The target number of performance share units to be issued to each Named Executive Officer listed below for 2011 will be determined in accordance with the following formula:
 
 


