FILE:AEE/AEE-8K-20100430121643.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At the annual meeting of shareholders of each of Ameren Corporation ("Ameren"), Union Electric Company ("Union Electric"), Central Illinois Public Service Company ("CIPS"), Central Illinois Light Company ("CILCO") and Illinois Power Company ("IP") held on April 27, 2010 (each, its respective "Annual Meeting"), the matters listed below were submitted to a vote of its respective shareholders.
Item (1): Election of Directors
Ameren
Ameren shareholders elected the 12 nominees named in the definitive proxy statement for the Annual Meeting to serve as directors until Ameren's next annual meeting of shareholders in 2011 and until their respective successors have been duly elected and qualified. Information as to the vote on each director standing for election is provided below:
 
Union Electric, CIPS, CILCO and IP
In connection with the Annual Meeting of each of Union Electric, CIPS, CILCO and IP, each registrant did not solicit proxies from its shareholders and the board of directors of each company as previously reported to the Securities and Exchange Commission was re-elected in its entirety.
 
Item (2): Ratification of the Appointment of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm for the Fiscal Year Ending December 31, 2010
Ameren shareholders ratified the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as Ameren's independent registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2010 as set forth below:
 
Item (3): Shareholder Proposal Relating to Report on Callaway Plant Extension of Operating License
Ameren shareholders did not approve a shareholder proposal requesting that Ameren prepare a report that discloses Ameren's evaluation of applying for an extension of the Callaway nuclear power plant operating license as set forth below:
 
 
At a regularly scheduled meeting of Ameren's Board held on April 27, 2010, Ameren's President and Chief Executive Officer, Thomas R. Voss, was elected to the additional position of Board Chairman to succeed Gary L. Rainwater, who retired from Ameren on such date. A copy of a press release regarding this election is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. The signature for each undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to such company or its subsidiaries.
 
 
Date: April 30, 2010
 

Exhibit 99.1
One Ameren Plaza        
1901 Chouteau Avenue
St. Louis, MO 63103    
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
ST. LOUIS, MO, April 27, 2010The board of directors of Ameren Corporation (NYSE: AEE) announced today that Ameren president and CEO Thomas R. Voss was elected to the position of board chairman at their regularly scheduled meeting, conducted after today's annual meeting of shareholders.
Voss succeeds Gary L. Rainwater, 63, executive chairman, who retired from Ameren today after a 31-year career with the company.
Voss, 62, was elected president and chief executive officer of Ameren in May 2009. He had been president and CEO of Ameren's Missouri utility, AmerenUE, since January 2007. Voss joined the company in 1969.
In addition, Ameren shareholders today elected Steven H. Lipstein, president and chief executive officer of BJC HealthCare, and re-elected 11 other business leaders to Ameren's Board of Directors: Stephen F. Brauer, chairman and chief executive officer of Hunter Engineering Company; Ellen M. Fitzsimmons, senior vice president of law and public affairs, general counsel and corporate secretary of CSX Corporation; Walter J. Galvin, vice chairman of Emerson Electric Co.; Gayle P. W. Jackson, Ph.D., president and chief executive officer of Energy Global, Inc.; James C. Johnson, retired vice president and assistant general counsel, commercial airplanes, of The Boeing Company; Charles W. Mueller, retired chairman and chief executive officer of Ameren; Harvey Saligman, partner of Cynwyd Investments; Patrick T. Stokes, former chairman of Anheuser-Busch Companies, Inc.; Thomas R. Voss; Stephen R. Wilson, chairman, president and chief executive officer of CF Industries Holdings, Inc.; and Jack D. Woodard, retired executive vice president and chief nuclear officer of Southern Nuclear Operating Company, Inc.
With assets of $24 billion, Ameren serves 2.4 million electric customers and 900,000 natural gas customers in a 64,000-square-mile area of Missouri and Illinois.


