FILE:AEE/AEE-8K-20100505081434.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
ITEM 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On May 5, 2010, Ameren Corporation ("Ameren") issued a press release announcing its earnings for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2010. The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. The information furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing of Ameren under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act.
ITEM 8.01 Other Events.
In its press release dated May 5, 2010, Ameren disclosed the following unaudited consolidated financial statements: Statement of Income for the three months ended March 31, 2010 and March 31, 2009, Balance Sheet at March 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, and Statement of Cash Flows for the three months ended March 31, 2010 and March 31, 2009. The foregoing consolidated financial statements are attached as Exhibit 99.2 and Ameren hereby incorporates such consolidated financial statements into this Item 8.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Ameren has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: May 5, 2010
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
ST. LOUIS, MO., May 5, 2010Ameren Corporation (NYSE: AEE) today announced first quarter 2010 net income in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) of $102 million, or 43 cents per share, compared to first quarter 2009 GAAP net income of $141 million, or 66 cents per share. Excluding certain items in each year, Ameren recorded first quarter 2010 core (non-GAAP) net income of $95 million, or 40 cents per share, compared to first quarter 2009 core (non-GAAP) net income of $114 million, or 54 cents per share.
"Our first quarter earnings were in line with our expectations," said Thomas R. Voss, chairman, president and chief executive officer of Ameren Corporation. "Colder winter weather and an emerging economic recovery helped drive first quarter 2010 electric sales higher than those in the year-ago period. The margins from these additional sales, solid operating performance and continued tight cost control across our businesses helped to offset higher utility infrastructure and related financing costs as well as reduced margins in our merchant generation business as a result of lower power prices and higher fuel costs.
"The Illinois Commerce Commission issued an order in our electric and natural gas delivery rate cases on April 29. The overall authorized revenue increase was only $5 million, as calculated by the ICC. This was well below our revised request of $130 million and the $56 million proposed by the Commission's own Administrative Law Judges. We are clearly disappointed in the decision and we are taking action. Our responses will include asking the Commission to rehear certain issues and reducing planned spending at our Illinois utilities to levels more closely in-line with the revenue and related cash flow levels provided by the order.
"In an unrelated development, today we are announcing a further $435 million reduction to previously planned 2010 to 2014 merchant generation capital expenditures," Voss added. "This action is part of our on-going effort to ensure that
 
Add 2
 
our merchant generation business remains well-positioned to weather currently low power prices and benefit from an expected power price recovery."
First Quarter 2010 Earnings Discussion
The decline in first quarter 2010 core (non-GAAP) earnings per share, compared to the year-ago quarter, was primarily the result of lower merchant generation segment margins, higher depreciation expenses and financing costs, as well as an increased average number of common shares outstanding. These factors were partly offset by higher electric and natural gas sales by Ameren's regulated utility businesses, as well as by the Missouri electric rates that went into effect March 1, 2009.
At Ameren's regulated utilities, colder winter weather and improvement in the economy led to a 7% increase in first-quarter 2010 kilowatthour sales to residential and commercial customers, compared to sales during the first quarter of 2009. The impact of an improving economy was also evident in the level of kilowatthour sales to industrial customers of Ameren's regulated utilities, especially in Illinois. These sales advanced 2%, compared to sales during the first quarter of 2009, excluding sales to AmerenUE's largest customer, the Noranda Aluminum, Inc. smelter plant in New Madrid, Mo. Noranda's plant sustained damage because of a power interruption on non-Ameren-owned power lines during a severe ice storm in January 2009. Electric sales to the plant have gradually increased since that incident and have now reached pre-storm levels. Electric sales to industrial customers, including Noranda, increased 10% in the first quarter of 2010, compared to sales during the first quarter of 2009.
The following items were excluded from first quarter 2010 and first quarter 2009 core (non-GAAP) earnings, as applicable:
 
 
Add 3
 
A reconciliation of GAAP to core (non-GAAP) earnings per share is as follows:
 
2010 Earnings Guidance
Ameren continues to expect 2010 GAAP and core (non-GAAP) earnings to be in the range of $2.20 to $2.60 per share. Any net unrealized mark-to-market gains or losses will impact GAAP earnings but are excluded from GAAP and core (non-GAAP) earnings guidance because the company is unable to reasonably estimate the impact of any such gains or losses.
Ameren expects its business segments to provide the following contributions to 2010 core (non-GAAP) earnings per share:
 
"While the recent ICC order caused us to lower our regulated segment earnings, further cost reductions in our merchant generation business and planned expenditure reductions in our Illinois regulated business to better align those expenditures with the recent ICC order allow us to reaffirm our overall 2010 GAAP and core earnings guidance," said Voss.
Ameren's earnings guidance for 2010 assumes normal weather for the balance of the year and is subject to the effects of, among other things, regulatory decisions and legislative actions, plant operations, energy and capital and credit market conditions, economic conditions, severe storms, unusual or otherwise unexpected gains or losses, and other risks and uncertainties outlined, or referred to, in the Forward-looking Statements section of this press release.
 
Add 4
 
Missouri Regulated Segment Earnings
Missouri regulated operations recorded GAAP earnings in the first quarter of 2010 of $27 million versus $21 million in the first quarter of 2009. Core (non-GAAP) earnings in the first quarter of 2010 were $32 million versus $4 million in the first quarter of 2009. The improvement in core (non-GAAP) earnings was primarily a result of the March 1, 2009, electric rate increase being in place for the entire first quarter in 2010, and higher retail electric sales driven primarily by higher demand from the Noranda smelter plant, colder winter weather and higher sales for resale. Other factors contributing to the favorable core earnings comparison included decreased storm-related expenses as year-ago quarterly results were impacted by a major storm. These positives were partly offset by higher plant operations and maintenance expenses due to scheduled outages and higher depreciation expense, among other things. In addition to those factors mentioned above, others affecting the GAAP earnings comparison included a smaller gain from net unrealized mark-to-market activity recorded in the first quarter of 2010 compared with the gain recorded during the first quarter of 2009 and the charge for the impact on deferred taxes of changes in federal healthcare laws in the first quarter of 2010.
Illinois Regulated Segment Earnings
Illinois regulated operations recorded GAAP earnings in the first quarter of 2010 of $33 million versus $25 million in the first quarter of 2009. Core (non-GAAP) earnings in the first quarter of 2010 were $35 million, compared to $25 million in the first quarter of 2009. The improvement in core (non-GAAP) earnings was primarily due to higher electric and natural gas deliveries as a result of colder winter weather and an improving economy. Offsetting this improvement were higher reliability-related expenses, among other items. In addition to those mentioned above, factors impacting the GAAP earnings comparison were the charge for the impact on deferred taxes of changes in federal healthcare laws in the first quarter of 2010 and a first quarter 2009 charge related to the Illinois electric settlement agreement reached in 2007. Gains from net unrealized mark-to-market activity were similar between the periods.
Merchant Generation Segment Earnings
Merchant generation operations recorded GAAP earnings in the first quarter of 2010 of $44 million versus $93 million in the first quarter of 2009. Core (non-GAAP) earnings in the first quarter of 2010 were $29 million, down from $85 million in the first quarter of 2009. The decline in core (non-GAAP) earnings was largely due to lower realized revenue per megawatt-hour sold and higher fuel and related transportation costs, as well as higher financing and depreciation expense. These factors were offset, in part, by reduced operating expenses. In addition to those factors mentioned above, items impacting the GAAP earnings comparison were a larger gain from net unrealized mark-to-market activity in
 
Add 5
 
the first quarter of 2010 than in the first quarter of 2009, a charge for the impact on deferred taxes of changes in federal healthcare laws in the first quarter of 2010 and a first quarter 2009 charge related to the Illinois electric settlement agreement reached in 2007.
Analyst Conference Call
Ameren will conduct a conference call for financial analysts at 9:00 a.m. Central Time on Wednesday, May 5, to discuss first quarter 2010 earnings and other matters. Investors, the news media and the public may listen to a live Internet broadcast of the call at www.ameren.com by clicking on "Q1 2010 Ameren Corporation Earnings Conference Call," followed by the appropriate audio link. An accompanying slide presentation will be available on Ameren's Web site. This presentation will be posted in the "Investors" section of the Web site under "Webcasts and presentations." The analyst call will also be available for replay on the Internet for one year. In addition, a telephone playback of the conference call will be available beginning at approximately noon Central Time, from May 5 through May 12, by dialing, U.S. (877) 660-6853 or international (201) 612-7415, and entering account number 352 and ID number 348865.
About Ameren
With assets of approximately $24 billion, Ameren serves approximately 2.4 million electric customers and almost one million natural gas customers in a 64,000-square-mile area of Missouri and Illinois. Ameren owns a diverse mix of electric generating plants strategically located in its Midwest market with a generating capacity of 16,800 megawatts.
 
Add 6
 
Regulation G Statement
Ameren has presented certain information in this release on a diluted cents per share basis. These diluted per share amounts reflect certain factors that directly impact Ameren's total earnings per share. The core (non-GAAP) earnings per share and core (non-GAAP) earnings per share guidance excludes one or more of the following: net unrealized mark-to-market gains or losses, a charge for the impact on deferred taxes of changes in federal healthcare laws and the earnings impact of the 2007 settlement agreement among parties in Illinois for comprehensive electric rate relief and customer assistance. Ameren uses core (non-GAAP) earnings internally for financial planning and for analysis of performance. Ameren also uses core (non-GAAP) earnings as primary performance measurements when communicating with analysts and investors regarding our earnings results and outlook, as the company believes it allows it to more accurately compare the company's ongoing performance across periods.
In providing consolidated and segment core (non-GAAP) earnings guidance, there could be differences between core (non-GAAP) earnings and earnings prepared in accordance with GAAP for certain items, such as those listed above. Ameren is unable to estimate the impact, if any, on future GAAP earnings of such items.
Forward-looking Statements
Statements in this release not based on historical facts are considered "forward-looking" and, accordingly, involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed. Although such forward-looking statements have been made in good faith and are based on reasonable assumptions, there is no assurance that the expected results will be achieved. These statements include (without limitation) statements as to future expectations, beliefs, plans, strategies, objectives, events, conditions, and financial performance. In connection with the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, we are providing this cautionary statement to identify important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. The following factors, in addition to those discussed elsewhere in this release and in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, could cause actual results to differ materially from management expectations suggested in such forward-looking statements:
 
 
Add 7
 
Given these uncertainties, undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements. Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, we undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements to reflect new information or future events.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 


