FILE:AEE/AEE-8K-20111014161734.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Allstate, of which Ms. Brune is a senior leadership team member, had no business relationships with Ameren or its subsidiaries in 2010 or to the date hereof in 2011 which are required to be reported under Item 404(a) of Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation S-K.
 
On October 14, 2011, Ameren issued a press release announcing Ms. Brune's election to the Board. A copy of that press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Report.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: October 14, 2011
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
For Immediate Release
Allstate Executive Elected To Ameren Board of Directors
ST. LOUIS, Mo., Oct. 14, 2011The board of directors of Ameren Corporation (NYSE: AEE) announced today that Catherine S. Brune, 58, president of Allstate Protection Eastern Territory of Allstate Insurance Company (Allstate), has been elected to the Ameren board. Allstate is a wholly owned subsidiary of The Allstate Corporation (NYSE: ALL) and is based in Northbrook, Ill.
A 35-year veteran of Allstate, Brune rose rapidly through a series of field and regional positions where she was given some of the company's most challenging assignments. Brune was elected the company's youngest officer in 1986, moving into Information Technology in the mid-1990s. In 2002, she was named senior vice president and chief information officer of Allstate, and in October 2010, Brune was named to her current position. As president of the Eastern Territory, she now oversees property/casualty operations in 23 states and Canada for Allstate, a Fortune 100 company and the nation's largest publicly held personal lines insurer. Brune is regularly recognized for her achievements. Over the past few years, she has been named Chief Information Officer of the Year by The Executives' Club of Chicago and has been recognized by a number of prestigious industry publications for her leadership and performance.
"Cathy Brune brings a wealth of experience serving as a creative and motivating leader of a large and complex company. She has an extensive track record of operational innovation and of successfully moving an organization through change. In addition, she offers a keen understanding of how to use technology to increase operational efficiency and improve performance," said Ameren Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Thomas R. Voss.
A resident of Lake Forest, Ill., Brune earned a bachelor of arts degree in management from the University of South Carolina. She and her husband are parents of a son and a daughter.
Brune currently serves on the board of the Chicago and USA Junior Achievement. She is a current member of The Chicago Networkan organization of Chicago's most distinguished professional women. She is a former member of the boards of the United Way and the Akron, Ohio Urban League. In 2008, she was selected as a member of the U.S. presidential delegation to the Northern Ireland Investment Conference to support that country's developing industry sectors.
With assets of $23 billion, Ameren serves approximately 2.4 million electric customers and almost one million natural gas customers in a 64,000 square mile area of Missouri and Illinois. Ameren owns a diverse mix of electric generating plants strategically located in its Midwest market with a generating capacity of more than 16,500 megawatts.


