FILE:AEE/AEE-8K-20110421170054.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At the annual meeting of shareholders of each of Ameren Corporation ("Ameren" or the "Company"), Union Electric Company d/b/a Ameren Missouri ("Ameren Missouri") and Ameren Illinois Company d/b/a Ameren Illinois ("Ameren Illinois") held on April 21, 2011 (each, its respective "Annual Meeting"), the matters listed below were submitted to a vote of its respective shareholders.
Item (1): Election of Directors
Ameren
Ameren shareholders elected the ten nominees named in the definitive proxy statement relating to the Annual Meeting to serve as directors until Ameren's next annual meeting of shareholders in 2012 and until their respective successors have been duly elected and qualified. Information as to the vote on each director standing for election is provided below:
 
Ameren Missouri
At Ameren Missouri's annual meeting of shareholders held on April 21, 2011, the following individuals (comprising Ameren Missouri's full Board of Directors) were elected to serve until the next annual meeting of shareholders in 2012: Warner L. Baxter, Daniel F. Cole, Adam C. Heflin, Martin J. Lyons, Jr., Richard J. Mark, Charles D. Naslund and Gregory L. Nelson. Each individual received 102,123,834 votes for election and no withheld votes, abstentions or broker non-votes.
Ameren Illinois
At Ameren Illinois' annual meeting of shareholders held on April 21, 2011, the following individuals (comprising Ameren Illinois' full Board of Directors) were elected to serve until the next annual meeting of shareholders in 2012: Scott A. Cisel, Daniel F. Cole, Martin J. Lyons, Jr. and Gregory L. Nelson. Each individual received 26,068,696 votes for election and no withheld votes, abstentions or broker non-votes.
Item (2): Amendment to Restated Articles of Incorporation Regarding Liability of Directors
Ameren shareholders approved amending Ameren's Restated Articles of Incorporation to limit, in certain circumstances, the personal liability of Ameren directors, as set forth below:
 
Item (3): Re-Approval of the Material Terms of the Performance Goals under Ameren's 2006 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan
Ameren shareholders re-approved the material terms of the performance goals under Ameren's 2006 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan, as set forth below:
 
Item (4): Advisory Approval of Executive Compensation
Ameren shareholders approved, on an advisory basis, the compensation of certain executives as disclosed in the Compensation Discussion and Analysis, the compensation tables and other narrative executive compensation disclosures in the definitive proxy statement relating to the Annual Meeting, as set forth below:
 
Item (5): Advisory Approval on Frequency of Executive Compensation Shareholder Advisory Vote
Ameren shareholders approved, on an advisory basis, the holding of a shareholder advisory vote on executive compensation every year, as set forth below:
 
Based on these voting results, and consistent with the recommendation of Ameren's Board of Directors, the Board has determined that Ameren will hold a shareholder advisory vote on the compensation of the Company's named executive officers, as set forth in the Company's proxy statement, every year until the Board decides to hold the next shareholder advisory vote on the frequency of such executive compensation advisory votes.
Item (6): Ratification of the Appointment of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm for the Fiscal Year Ending December 31, 2011
Ameren shareholders ratified the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as Ameren's independent registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2011, as set forth below:
 
Item (7): Shareholder Proposal Relating to Report on Coal Combustion Waste
Ameren shareholders did not approve a shareholder proposal requesting that Ameren's Board of Directors prepare a report on coal combustion waste as described in the definitive proxy statement relating to the Annual Meeting, as set forth below:
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. The signature for each undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to such company or its subsidiaries.
 
Date: April 21, 2011
 

Exhibit 3(i)
 
Pursuant to the provisions of the General and Business Corporation Law of Missouri, the undersigned Corporation certifies the following:
 
Charter #: 00414845
The name under which it was originally organized was Arch Holding Corp.
 
 
(A new Article Number Eleventh is added to the Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Corporation to read as follows:)
The liability of the Corporation's directors to the Corporation or any of its shareholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a director shall be eliminated to the fullest extent permitted under the Missouri General and Business Corporation Law. Any repeal or modification of this Article Eleventh by the shareholders of the Corporation shall not adversely affect any right or protection of a director of the Corporation existing at the time of such repeal or modification with respect to acts or omissions occurring prior to such repeal or modification."
 
The number of outstanding shares of any class were as follows:
entitled to vote thereon as a class
 
 
 
 
 
In Affirmation thereof, the facts stated above are true and correct:
(The undersigned understands that false statements made in this filing are subject to the penalties provided under Section 575.040, RSMo)
 
Corp. 44 (11/2008)


