FILE:AEE/AEE-8K-20110505082334.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On May 5, 2011, Ameren Corporation ("Ameren") issued a press release announcing its earnings for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2011. The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. The information furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing of Ameren under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act.
ITEM 8.01 Other Events.
In its press release dated May 5, 2011, Ameren disclosed the following unaudited consolidated financial statements: Statement of Income for the three months ended March 31, 2011 and March 31, 2010, Balance Sheet at March 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, and Statement of Cash Flows for the three months ended March 31, 2011 and March 31, 2010. The foregoing consolidated financial statements are attached as Exhibit 99.2 and Ameren hereby incorporates such consolidated financial statements into this Item 8.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Ameren has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: May 5, 2011
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
1901 Chouteau Avenue :St. Louis, MO 63103: Ameren.com
 
For Immediate Release
 
 
 
ST. LOUIS, MO., May 5, 2011  Ameren Corporation (NYSE: AEE) today announced first quarter 2011 net income in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) of $71 million, or 29 cents per share, compared to first quarter 2010 GAAP net income of $102 million, or 43 cents per share. Excluding certain items that are discussed below, Ameren recorded first quarter 2011 core (non-GAAP) net income of $60 million, or 25 cents per share, compared to first quarter 2010 core (non-GAAP) net income of $95 million, or 40 cents per share.
The decline in first quarter 2011 core (non-GAAP) earnings, compared to first quarter 2010 core (non-GAAP) earnings, was primarily the result of reduced margins in the merchant generation segment and increased storm-related expenses for Ameren Missouri and Ameren Illinois. Other factors causing reduced core (non-GAAP) earnings included lower capitalized financing costs and a decline in electricity and natural gas sales to native load customers. Kilowatthour (KWh) sales to residential and commercial customers, both of which are temperature-sensitive, declined 4%, while KWh sales to industrial customers rose 7%, reflecting economic growth. First quarter 2011 temperatures were milder than those in the first quarter of 2010. Core (non-GAAP) earnings were also adversely affected by a higher effective income tax rate due to an increased income tax rate in Illinois, among other things. Factors favorably contributing to first quarter 2011 core (non-GAAP) earnings, compared to first quarter 2010 core (non-GAAP) earnings, included lower interest expense and 2010 electric rate changes in Missouri and Illinois.
 
 
NEWS RELEASE
 
"Our first quarter 2011 core earnings results were on track with our expectations despite being lower than those of last year's first quarter," said Thomas R. Voss, chairman, president and chief executive officer of Ameren Corporation. "As a result, today, we are reaffirming our GAAP and core earnings guidance of $2.20 to $2.60 per share for this year. In addition, we continue to expect free cash flow to be positive in 2011."
Ameren calculates free cash flow by subtracting its cash flows from investing activities (which include capital expenditures), dividends and net advances for construction, from its cash flows from operating activities.
"We continue to position our company for long-term success," Voss added. "We are doing so by maintaining a sharp focus on customer satisfaction and by managing our costs in a disciplined manner. We remain committed to seeking utility rates and constructive regulatory frameworks that allow us to recover our costs and that provide an opportunity to earn a fair return on our investments. Further, we are dedicated to aligning our overall spending consistent with regulatory outcomes."
The following items were excluded from first quarter 2011 and 2010 core (non-GAAP) earnings, as applicable:
 
 
A reconciliation of GAAP to core (non-GAAP) earnings per share is as follows:
 
 
 
NEWS RELEASE
 
2011 Earnings Guidance
Ameren continues to expect 2011 GAAP and core (non-GAAP) earnings to be in the range of $2.20 to $2.60 per share. Any net unrealized mark-to-market gains or losses will impact GAAP earnings but are excluded from GAAP earnings guidance because the company is unable to reasonably estimate the impact of any such gains or losses for the full year. Core (non-GAAP) earnings and guidance exclude any net unrealized mark-to-market gains or losses.
Ameren also continues to expect its business segments to provide the following contributions to 2011 GAAP and core (non-GAAP) earnings per share:
 
Ameren's earnings guidance for 2011 assumes normal weather for the balance of the year. In addition, Ameren's future results are subject to the effects of, among other things, regulatory decisions and legislative actions; plant operations; energy, economic, and capital and credit market conditions; severe storms; unusual or otherwise unexpected gains or losses; and other risks and uncertainties outlined, or referred to, in the Forward-looking Statements section of this press release.
Ameren Missouri Segment Results
Ameren Missouri segment first quarter 2011 core (non-GAAP) earnings were $21 million, compared to first quarter 2010 core (non-GAAP) earnings of $32 million. The decline in core (non-GAAP) earnings was primarily due to increased storm-related expenses, lower capitalized financing costs and reduced electricity sales. Factors favorably impacting first quarter 2011 core (non-GAAP) earnings included lower interest expense, new electric rates effective in June 2010 and lower plant operations and maintenance expenses. First quarter 2011 GAAP earnings were $21 million, compared to first quarter 2010 GAAP earnings of $27 million. The GAAP earnings comparison was affected by the factors mentioned above and a first quarter 2010 charge for the impact on deferred taxes of changes in federal healthcare laws. The GAAP earnings comparison was also affected by a gain from net unrealized mark-to-market activity in the first quarter of 2010.
 
 
NEWS RELEASE
 
Ameren Illinois Segment Results
Ameren Illinois segment first quarter 2011 core (non-GAAP) earnings were $33 million, compared to first quarter 2010 core (non-GAAP) earnings of $37 million. The decline in core (non-GAAP) earnings was primarily the result of a change in the mix of electricity sales and increased storm-related expenses. Factors favorably impacting core (non-GAAP) earnings included new electric rates effective in 2010. First quarter 2011 GAAP earnings were $33 million, compared to first quarter 2010 GAAP earnings of $35 million. The GAAP earnings comparison was affected by the factors mentioned above and a first quarter 2010 charge for the impact on deferred taxes of changes in federal healthcare laws.
Merchant Generation Segment Results
Merchant generation segment first quarter 2011 core (non-GAAP) earnings were $11 million, compared to first quarter 2010 core (non-GAAP) earnings of $29 million. The decline in core (non-GAAP) earnings was primarily due to lower realized power prices and higher fuel and related transportation costs. Core (non-GAAP) earnings were also adversely affected by a higher effective income tax rate reflecting an increased income tax rate in Illinois. Factors favorably impacting first quarter 2011 core (non-GAAP) earnings included reduced financing costs. First quarter 2011 GAAP earnings were $20 million, compared to first quarter 2010 GAAP earnings of $44 million. The GAAP earnings comparison was affected by the factors mentioned above and by a reduced gain from net unrealized mark-to-market activity in the first quarter of 2011, compared to the first quarter of 2010. The GAAP earnings comparison was also affected by a first quarter 2010 charge for the impact on deferred taxes of changes in federal healthcare laws.
Analyst Conference Call
Ameren will conduct a conference call for financial analysts at 9:00 a.m. Central Time on Thursday, May 5, to discuss first quarter 2011 earnings and other matters. Investors, the news media and the public may listen to a live Internet broadcast of the call at www.ameren.com by clicking on "Q1 2011 Ameren Corporation Earnings Conference Call," followed by the appropriate audio link. An accompanying slide presentation will be available on Ameren's website. This presentation will be posted in the "Investors" section of the website under "Webcasts & Presentations." The analyst call will also be available for replay on the Internet for one year. In addition, a telephone playback of the conference call will be available beginning at approximately noon Central Time from May
 
 
NEWS RELEASE
 
5 through May 12, by dialing, U.S. (877) 660-6853 or international (201) 612-7415, and entering account number 352 and ID number 371539.
Regulation G Statement
Ameren has presented certain information in this release on a diluted cents per share basis. These diluted per share amounts reflect certain factors that directly impact Ameren's total earnings per share. The core (non-GAAP) earnings per share and core (non-GAAP) earnings per share guidance exclude one or more of the following: net unrealized mark-to-market gains or losses and a charge for the deferred tax impact of federal healthcare laws. Ameren uses core (non-GAAP) earnings internally for financial planning and for analysis of performance. Ameren also uses core (non-GAAP) earnings as primary performance measurements when communicating with analysts and investors regarding our earnings results and outlook, as the company believes that core (non-GAAP) earnings allow the company to more accurately compare its ongoing performance across periods.
In this release, Ameren has also discussed free cash flow, which is a non-GAAP measure. Ameren calculates free cash flow by subtracting its cash flows from investing activities (which include capital expenditures), dividends on common stock, dividends paid to noncontrolling interest holders and advances received for construction, net of repayments, from its cash flows from operating activities. Ameren uses free cash flow internally and when communicating with analysts and investors to measure its ability to generate cash.
In providing consolidated and segment core (non-GAAP) earnings guidance, there could be differences between core (non-GAAP) earnings and earnings prepared in accordance with GAAP as a result of our treatment of certain items, such as those listed above. Ameren is unable to estimate the impact, if any, on future GAAP earnings of such items.
Forward-looking Statements
Statements in this release not based on historical facts are considered "forward-looking" and, accordingly, involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed. Although such forward-looking statements have been made in good faith and are based on reasonable assumptions, there is no assurance that the expected results will be achieved. These statements include (without limitation) statements as to future expectations, beliefs, plans, strategies, objectives, events, conditions, and financial performance. In connection with the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, we are providing this cautionary statement to identify important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. The following factors, in addition to those discussed under Risk Factors in Ameren's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, and elsewhere in this release and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, could cause actual results to differ materially from management expectations suggested in such forward-looking statements:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NEWS RELEASE
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Given these uncertainties, undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements. Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, we undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements to reflect new information or future events.
 
 
NEWS RELEASE
 
With assets of $23 billion, St. Louis-based Ameren Corporation owns a diverse mix of electric generating plants strategically located in our Midwest market, with a generating capacity of more than 16,600 megawatts. Through our Missouri and Illinois subsidiaries, we serve 2.4 million electric customers and nearly 1 million natural gas customers in a 64,000-square-mile area. Our mission is to meet their energy needs in a safe, reliable, efficient and environmentally responsible manner. For more information, visit Ameren.com.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 


