FILE:AEE/AEE-8K-20120613122953.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On June 13, 2012, Ameren Corporation ("Ameren") issued a press release announcing the officer changes described under Item 8.01 below.
A copy of the press release is furnished with this Form 8-K and attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that section and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing of Ameren under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act.
 
On June 13, 2012, Ameren announced that Scott A. Cisel, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Ameren Illinois Company, doing business as Ameren Illinois ("Ameren Illinois"), has left Ameren to pursue other interests. Effective immediately, Richard J. Mark, most recently the Senior Vice President, Customer Operations, of Union Electric Company, doing business as Ameren Missouri, assumed the positions of Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Ameren Illinois, effective June 13, 2012.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
This combined Form 8-K is being filed separately by Ameren Corporation and Ameren Illinois Company (each a "registrant"). Information contained herein relating to any individual registrant has been filed by such registrant on its own behalf. No registrant makes any representation as to information relating to any other registrant.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. The signature for each undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to such company or its subsidiaries.
 
Date: June 13, 2012

EXHIBIT 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
 
1901 Chouteau Avenue : St. Louis, MO 63103 : Ameren.com
 
For Immediate Release
Ameren announces promotion of Richard J. Mark to Chairman, President and CEO of Ameren Illinois Company
 Ameren Corporation (NYSE:AEE) announced today, that effective immediately, Richard J. Mark is promoted to chairman, president and chief executive officer of Ameren Illinois Company, an electric and gas delivery utility subsidiary of Ameren Corporation. Mark replaces Scott A. Cisel who has left the company to pursue other interests.
St. Louis, June 13, 2012
Mark, who was senior vice president, Customer Operations, Ameren Missouri, joined Ameren in 2002. "Richard brings a strong operations background to Ameren Illinois," said Thomas R. Voss, chairman, president and CEO of Ameren. "He is very active in the community and he is attuned to customers' desires for safe, reliable and affordable energy. His background and experience align very well with Ameren Illinois' mission. I'm confident Richard will execute Ameren Illinois' infrastructure investment commitments and will continue to enhance customer satisfaction."
Replacing Mark as leader of Customer Operations for Ameren Missouri will be Michael L. Moehn. Moehn will transfer from a similar role at Ameren Illinois and become senior vice president of Customer Operations, Ameren Missouri. Moehn has held many leadership positions since joining Ameren in 2000 after a successful career in public accounting at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. Until January 2012, Moehn was senior vice president of Corporate Planning where he led Ameren's strategic planning and risk management efforts. "Moving Michael into a senior leadership role at Ameren Missouri will allow us to leverage his broad experience and skills at the operations level at Ameren Missouri," Voss added.
With assets of more than $23 billion, St. Louis-based Ameren Corporation owns a diverse mix of electric generating plants strategically located in our Midwest market, with a generating capacity of nearly 16,000 megawatts. Through our Missouri and Illinois subsidiaries, we serve 2.4 million electric customers and more than 900,000 natural gas customers in a 64,000-square-mile area. Our mission is to meet their energy needs in a safe, reliable, efficient and environmentally responsible manner. For more information, visit Ameren.com.
 


