FILE:AEE/AEE-8K-20120419144153.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference is made to Transmission and Supply of Electric Power under Part I, Item 1. Business and to COLA and Early Site Permit under Note 2. Rate and Regulatory Matters to our financial statements under Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, each in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, of registrants Ameren Corporation ("Ameren") and its registrant subsidiary, Union Electric Company, doing business as Ameren Missouri ("Ameren Missouri"), for a discussion of efforts to preserve the option for additional nuclear generation at Ameren Missouri's existing Callaway County, Missouri nuclear energy center site.
On April 19, 2012, Ameren Missouri announced that it had entered into an agreement with Westinghouse Electric Company ("Westinghouse") to exclusively support Westinghouse's application for the Department of Energy's ("DOE") Small Modular Reactors ("SMR") investment funds of up to $452 million, which investment funding is intended to support first-of-its-kind engineering and design certifications and also a Combined Construction and Operating license ("COL") for up to two SMR designs over five years.
If Westinghouse is awarded DOE SMR investment funds, Ameren Missouri will seek a COL from the Nuclear Regulatory Commission ("NRC") for a Westinghouse SMR at its Callaway County, Missouri nuclear energy center site. A COL is issued by the NRC to permit construction and operation of a nuclear power plant at a specific site in accordance with established laws and regulations. Obtaining a COL from the NRC does not obligate Ameren Missouri to build a SMR at the Callaway site; however, it does preserve an important energy option and positions Missouri to move forward in a timely fashion should conditions be right to build a SMR in the future.
Ameren Missouri estimates the total cost to obtain the SMR COL will be in the range of $80-$100 million. Ameren Missouri expects its incremental investment to obtain the SMR COL will be minimal due to several factors, including the company's previous investments of approximately $69 million in new nuclear plant development, the DOE investment funds that would help support the COL application and its agreement with Westinghouse.
Ameren Missouri is not currently pursuing legislative efforts in Missouri seeking cost recovery of new nuclear plant development expenditures. Ameren Missouri will evaluate future legislative needs associated with nuclear energy subsequent to the DOE's investment fund decision. If the DOE does not approve Westinghouse's application for the SMR investment funds, Ameren Missouri is not obligated to pursue a COL for the Westinghouse SMR and may terminate its agreement with Westinghouse.
Forward-looking Statements
Statements in this report not based on historical facts are considered "forward-looking" and, accordingly, involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed. Although such forward-looking statements have been made in good faith and are based on reasonable assumptions, there is no assurance that the expected results will be achieved. These statements include (without limitation) statements as to future expectations, beliefs, plans, strategies, objectives, events, conditions, and financial performance. In connection with the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, we are providing this cautionary statement to identify important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. The following factors, in addition to those discussed under Risk Factors in Ameren Missouri's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, and elsewhere in this report and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, could cause actual results to differ materially from management expectations suggested in such forward-looking statements:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Given these uncertainties, undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements. Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, we undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements to reflect new information or future events.
 
 
This combined Form 8-K is being filed separately by Ameren Corporation and Union Electric Company (each a "registrant"). Information contained herein relating to any individual registrant has been filed by such registrant on its own behalf. No registrant makes any representation as to information relating to any other registrant.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. The signature for each undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to such company or its subsidiaries.
 
Date: April 19, 2012


