FILE:AEE/AEE-8K-20120113144623.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 8.01 Other Events.
Reference is made to Overview and Outlook under Part I, Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2011, of registrant Ameren Corporation ("Ameren") and its registrant subsidiary, Ameren Illinois Company ("Ameren Illinois"), for a discussion of Ameren Illinois' February 2011 request with the Illinois Commerce Commission ("ICC"), as subsequently revised, to increase its annual revenues for natural gas delivery services.
On January 10, 2012, the ICC issued a rate order that approved an increase in Ameren Illinois' annual revenues for natural gas delivery service of $32 million. The revenue increase was based on a 9.06% return on equity, a capital structure composed of 53.3% common equity, a rate base of approximately $1 billion, and a 2012 future test year. The rate changes are expected to become effective on January 20, 2012. Ameren Illinois is evaluating the ICC's order and may decide to ask for rehearing of, or subsequently appeal, any aspect of the ICC's order. Similarly, any of the intervenor parties to the rate case may seek rehearing of, or subsequently appeal, any aspect of the order. Ameren Illinois cannot predict the outcome of any such application for rehearing or appeal.
 
 
This combined Form 8-K is being filed separately by Ameren Corporation and Ameren Illinois Company (each a "registrant"). Information contained herein relating to any individual registrant has been filed by such registrant on its own behalf. No registrant makes any representation as to information relating to any other registrant.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. The signature for each undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to such company or its subsidiaries.
AMEREN CORPORATION
(Registrant)
/s/ Martin J. Lyons, Jr.                                                             
Martin J. Lyons, Jr.
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
AMEREN ILLINOIS COMPANY
(Registrant)
/s/ Scott A. Cisel                                                                       
Scott A. Cisel
Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer
Date: January 13, 2012
 


