FILE:AEE/AEE-8K-20120425142755.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At the annual meeting of shareholders of each of Ameren Corporation ("Ameren" or the "Company"), Union Electric Company d/b/a Ameren Missouri ("Ameren Missouri") and Ameren Illinois Company d/b/a Ameren Illinois ("Ameren Illinois") held on April 24, 2012 (each, its respective "Annual Meeting"), the matters listed below were submitted to a vote of its respective shareholders.
Item (1): Election of Directors
Ameren
Ameren shareholders elected the eleven nominees named in the definitive proxy statement relating to the Annual Meeting to serve as directors until Ameren's next annual meeting of shareholders in 2013 and until their respective successors have been duly elected and qualified. Information as to the vote on each director standing for election is provided below:
 
Ameren Missouri
At Ameren Missouri's annual meeting of shareholders held on April 24, 2012, the following individuals (comprising Ameren Missouri's full Board of Directors) were elected to serve until the next annual meeting of shareholders in 2013 and until their respective successors have been duly elected and qualified: Warner L. Baxter, Daniel F. Cole, Adam C. Heflin, Martin J. Lyons, Jr., Richard J. Mark, Charles D. Naslund and Gregory L. Nelson. Each individual received 102,123,834 votes for election and no withheld votes, abstentions or broker non-votes.
 
Ameren Illinois
At Ameren Illinois' annual meeting of shareholders held on April 24, 2012, the following individuals (comprising Ameren Illinois' full Board of Directors) were elected to serve until the next annual meeting of shareholders in 2013 and until their respective successors have been duly elected and qualified: Scott A. Cisel, Daniel F. Cole, Martin J. Lyons, Jr., Michael L. Moehn and Gregory L. Nelson. Each individual received 25,452,373 votes for election and no withheld votes, abstentions or broker non-votes.
Item (2): Advisory Approval of Executive Compensation
Ameren shareholders approved, on an advisory basis, the compensation of certain executives as disclosed in the Compensation Discussion and Analysis, the compensation tables and other narrative executive compensation disclosures in the definitive proxy statement relating to the Annual Meeting, as set forth below:
 
Item (3): Ratification of the Appointment of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm for the Fiscal Year Ending December 31, 2012
Ameren shareholders ratified the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as Ameren's independent registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2012, as set forth below:
 
Item (4): Shareholder Proposal Relating to Report on Coal Combustion Waste
Ameren shareholders did not approve a shareholder proposal requesting that Ameren's Board of Directors prepare a report on coal combustion waste as described in the definitive proxy statement relating to the Annual Meeting, as set forth below:
 
 
Item (5): Shareholder Proposal Relating to Report on Coal-Related Costs and Risks
Ameren shareholders did not approve a shareholder proposal requesting that Ameren's Board of Directors prepare a report on coal-related costs and risks as described in the definitive proxy statement relating to the Annual Meeting, as set forth below:
 
Item (6): Shareholder Proposal Relating to Assessment and Report on Greenhouse Gas and Other Air Emissions Reductions Through Customer Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Programs
Ameren shareholders did not approve a shareholder proposal requesting that a committee of independent directors of Ameren's Board of Directors assess and prepare a report on actions the Company is taking or could take to build shareholder value and reduce greenhouse gas and other air emissions through customer energy efficiency and renewable energy programs as described in the definitive proxy statement relating to the Annual Meeting, as set forth below:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. The signature for each undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to such company or its subsidiaries.
 
Date: April 25, 2012
 


