ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following discussion in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes to those statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. This Annual Report on Form 10 K contains certain statements that are forward looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain statements contained in the Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations are forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The forward looking statements are not historical facts, but rather are based on current expectations, estimates, assumptions and projections about our industry, business and future financial results. Our actual results could differ materially from the results contemplated by these forward looking statements due to a number of factors, including those discussed in other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. See Risk Factors and Forward looking Statements. Overview We are a leading provider of money transfer services, operating in two business segments: Consumer to consumer money transfer services, provided primarily through a global network of third party agents using our multicurrency, real time money transfer processing systems. This service is available for international cross border transfers that is, the transfer of funds from one country to another and, in certain countries, intra country transfers that is, money transfers from one location to another in the same country. Consumer to business payment services, which allow consumers to send funds to businesses and other organizations that receive consumer payments, including utilities, auto finance companies, mortgage servicers, financial service providers and government agencies (all sometimes referred to as billers) through our network of third party agents and various electronic channels. While we continue to pursue international expansion of our offerings in selected markets, as demonstrated by our December 2006 acquisition of Servicio Electronico de Pago S.A. and related entities (SEPSA or Pago F&aacute;cil) in Argentina and our recent offerings of a walk in, cash bill payment service in Peru and Panama, the segments revenue was primarily generated in the United States during all periods presented. Businesses not considered part of the segments described above are categorized as Other and represented 2% or less of consolidated revenue during the three years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, and include Western Union branded money orders available through a network of third party agents primarily in the United States and Canada, and prepaid services. Prepaid services include a Western Union branded prepaid MasterCard&reg; card sold through select agents in the United States and the internet, a Western Union branded prepaid Visa&reg; card sold on the internet, and top up services for third parties that allow consumers to pay in advance for mobile phone and other services. Also included in Other are expenses incurred in connection with the development of certain new service offerings, including costs to develop mobile money transfer services and new prepaid service offerings. In 2007 and 2006, Other included recruiting and relocation expenses associated with hiring senior management positions new to our company and consulting costs used to develop ongoing processes in connection with completing the spin off. The consumer to consumer money transfer service is available through an extensive network of agent locations that offer Western Union services around the world. Some of our agent locations only pay out and do not send money. In addition to our agent locations, we are expanding the ability of consumers to send money through other channels, such as our internet site, westernunion.com, and the telephone. Consumer to consumer money transfer service is available through the Western Union&reg;, Orlandi Valuta&reg; and VigoSM brands. The consumer to business service allows consumers to transfer money to a biller. This service is available at many of our Western Union agent locations, primarily in the United States, and through the internet or by telephone. 40 Table of Contents Significant Financial and Other Highlights Significant financial and other highlights for the year ended December 31, 2008 include: We generated $5,282.0 million in total consolidated revenues and $1,355.0 million in consolidated operating income, resulting in year over year growth of 8% and 2% in total consolidated revenues and operating income, respectively. We incurred $82.9 million of restructuring and related expenses as described within Operating expenses overview. During the year ended December 31, 2007, we incurred a $22.3 million accelerated stock based compensation vesting charge related to an affiliate of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Cos (KKR) acquisition of First Data Corporation (First Data) on September 24, 2007 as described within Operating expenses overview. Our operating income margin was 26% during the year ended December 31, 2008 resulting in a year over year decline of 1% due primarily to the restructuring and related expenses described above. Consolidated net income during 2008 was $919.0 million, representing an increase of 7% from 2007. We completed 188.1 million consumer to consumer transactions worldwide, an increase of 12% over 2007. Our consumers transferred $74 billion in consumer to consumer transactions, of which $67 billion related to cross border transactions, which represented an increase of 16% in consumer to consumer transactions and a 17% increase in cross border transactions over prior year. We completed 412.1 million consumer to business transactions, representing an increase of 2% over the prior year. Consolidated cash flow provided by operating activities was $1,253.9 million, an increase of 14% over 2007. Factors that we believe are important to our long term success include accelerating profitable growth in our existing consumer to consumer business, expanding and globalizing our consumer to business segment and increasing the number of bill payment options, innovating to provide new products and services to our target consumer, and improving our profitability by leveraging our scale, reducing costs and effectively utilizing capital. Significant factors affecting our financial position and results of operations include: Transaction volume is the primary generator of revenue in our businesses. Transaction volume in our consumer to consumer segment is affected by, among other things, the size of the international migrant population and individual needs to transfer funds in emergency situations. As noted elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K, a reduction in the size of the migrant population, interruptions in migration patterns or reduced employment opportunities including those resulting from any changes in immigration laws, economic development patterns or political events, could adversely affect our transaction volume. For discussion on how these factors have impacted us in recent periods, refer to the consumer to consumer segment discussion below. Revenue is also impacted by changes in the fees we charge consumers, the amount of money sent, and by the variance in the exchange rate set by us to the consumer and the rate at which we or our agents are able to acquire currency. We intend to continue to implement strategic pricing reductions, actions to reduce foreign exchange spreads, where appropriate, taking into account growth opportunities and including competitive factors. Decreases in our fees or foreign exchange spreads generally reduce margins, but are done in anticipation that they will result in increased transaction volumes and increased revenues over time. As mentioned above, revenue is impacted by the principal per transaction. In 2008, our consumer to consumer principal per transaction increased 3% over the prior year. However, in the fourth quarter 2008 versus the comparable period in the prior year, consumer to consumer principal per transaction declined 4%, a trend we expect to continue in 2009. 41 Table of Contents The weakening economy in the United States has adversely impacted our consumer to consumer and consumer to business segments throughout the year and the more recent global economic crisis has adversely impacted our fourth quarter 2008 results and continues to impact us. We continue to face robust competition in both our consumer to consumer and consumer to business segments from a variety of money transfer and consumer payment providers. We believe the most significant competitive factors in the consumer to consumer segment relate to brand recognition, trust and reliability, distribution network, consumer experience and price and in the consumer to business segment relate to brand recognition, trust and reliability, convenience, speed, variety of payment methods and price. Regulation of the money transfer industry is increasing. The number and complexity of regulations around the world and the pace at which regulation is changing are factors that pose significant challenges to our business. We continue to implement policies and programs and adapt our business practices and strategies to help us comply with current legal requirements, as well as with new and changing legal requirements affecting particular services, or the conduct of our business in general. Our activities include dedicated compliance personnel, training and monitoring programs, government relations and regulatory outreach efforts, and support and guidance to the agent network on compliance programs. These efforts increase our costs of doing business. The Separation of Western Union from First Data On January 26, 2006, the First Data Board of Directors announced its intention to pursue the distribution of 100% of its money transfer and consumer payments businesses related assets, through a tax free distribution to First Data shareholders. Effective on September 29, 2006, First Data completed the separation and the distribution of these businesses (the Distribution). Prior to the Distribution, our company had been a segment of First Data. Subsequent to the spin off from First Data, we have recognized higher interest expense as a result of the debt that was issued to effect the spin off. We have also recorded higher expenses related to being a stand alone company, as further described below in Basis of Presentation. Basis of Presentation The financial statements in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for periods ending on or after the Distribution are presented on a consolidated basis and include the accounts of our company and its majority owned subsidiaries. The financial statements for the periods presented prior to the Distribution are presented on a combined basis and represent those entities that were ultimately transferred to our company in connection with the spin off. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions between our companys segments have been eliminated. The historical consolidated statements of income include expense allocations for certain corporate functions historically provided to Western Union by First Data, including treasury, tax, accounting and reporting, mergers and acquisitions, risk management, legal, internal audit, procurement, human resources, investor relations and information technology. If possible, these allocations were made on a specific identification basis. Otherwise, the expenses related to services provided to Western Union by First Data were allocated to Western Union based on the relative percentages, as compared to First Datas other businesses, of headcount or other appropriate methods depending on the nature of each item of cost to be allocated. Pursuant to a transition services agreement we entered into with First Data prior to the spin off, First Data provided Western Union with certain of these services at prices agreed upon by First Data and Western Union. The transition services agreement expired on September 29, 2007. The costs historically allocated to us by First Data for the services provided to us were lower than the costs we have incurred and will continue to incur following the spin off. Certain expenses related to being a stand alone company, reflected in the consolidated statements of income, are higher than the historical amounts prior to the spin off. The financial information presented in this Annual Report on Form 10 K prior to the spin off date of September 29, 2006 does not reflect what our 42 Table of Contents consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows would have been as a stand alone company during the periods presented and is not necessarily indicative of our future consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Subsequent Event In February 2009, we entered into an agreement to acquire the money transfer business of European based FEXCO, one of our largest agents providing services in the United Kingdom, Spain, Ireland and other European countries. Prior to the acquisition, we hold a 24.65% interest in FEXCO Group Holdings (FEXCO Group), which is a holding company for both the money transfer business as well as various unrelated businesses. We will surrender our 24.65% interest in FEXCO Group and pay 123.1 million (approximately $160 million based on currency exchange rates at deal signing) as consideration for the overall money transfer business. The acquisition is expected to close in the first half of 2009, subject to regulatory approvals and satisfaction of closing conditions. The acquisition will be recognized at 100% of the fair value of the money transfer business, which will exceed the cash consideration of 123.1 million given the non cash consideration conveyed via the sale of our interest in FEXCO Group. The fair value of the money transfer business will be determined upon closing and is subject to fluctuation due to changes in exchange rates and other valuation inputs. Adoption of Accounting Standards Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 157 Effective January 1, 2008, we determine the fair market values of our financial assets and liabilities, as well as non financial assets and liabilities that are recognized or disclosed at fair value on a recurring basis, based on the fair value hierarchy established in SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (SFAS No. 157). The standard describes three levels of inputs that may be used to measure fair value. Level 1: Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Western Unions financial instruments that base fair value determinations on Level 1 inputs are not material. Level 2: Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. Most of our assets and liabilities fall within Level 2 and include state and municipal debt instruments, other foreign investment securities, and derivative assets and liabilities. We utilize pricing services to value our Level 2 financial instruments. For most of these assets, we utilize pricing services that use multiple prices as inputs to determine daily market values. Level 3: Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. Level 3 assets and liabilities include items where the determination of fair value requires significant management judgment or estimation. We currently have no Level 3 assets or liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis. Pursuant to the Financial Accounting Standards Boards (FASB) Staff Position No. 157 2, Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 157 (FSP No. 157 2), the effective date of SFAS No. 157 for certain non financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value but are recognized or disclosed at fair value on a non recurring basis has been deferred to fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008. We are primarily impacted by this deferral as it relates to non financial assets and liabilities initially measured at fair value in a business combination (but not measured at fair value in subsequent periods) and fair value measurements in impairment testing. We adopted these remaining provisions of SFAS No. 157 effective January 1, 2009. We do not expect the impact to be significant on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Due to the nature of our investment securities, there have been no material changes to our valuation techniques during the year ended December 31, 2008. 43 Table of Contents FASB Interpretation No. 48 We adopted the provisions of the FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes (FIN 48), on January 1, 2007. FIN 48 addresses the determination of how tax benefits claimed or expected to be claimed on a tax return should be recorded in the consolidated financial statements. Under FIN 48, we recognize the tax benefits from an uncertain tax position only when it is more likely than not, based on the technical merits of the position, that the tax position will be sustained upon examination, including the resolution of any related appeals or litigation. The tax benefits recognized in the consolidated financial statements from such a position are measured as the largest benefit that has a greater than fifty percent likelihood of being realized upon ultimate resolution. As a result of the implementation of FIN 48, we recognized an increase in our liability for unrecognized tax benefits plus associated accrued interest and penalties of $0.6 million, which was accounted for as a reduction to the January 1, 2007 balance of retained earnings. Refer to Note 10 Income Taxes in our historical consolidated financial statements for a more detailed discussion of the adoption of FIN 48. Components of Revenue and Expenses The following briefly describes the components of revenue and expenses as presented in the consolidated statements of income. Descriptions of our revenue recognition policies are included in Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in our consolidated financial statements. Transaction fees Transaction fees are charged for sending money transfers and consumer to business payments. Consumer to consumer transaction fees generally vary according to the principal amount of the money transfer and the locations from and to which the funds are sent. Transaction fees represented 80% of Western Unions total consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008. Foreign exchange revenue In certain consumer money transfer transactions involving different send and receive currencies, we generate revenue based on the difference between the exchange rate set by us to the consumer and the rate at which we or our agents are able to acquire currency. Foreign exchange revenue growth has historically been driven principally by growth in international cross currency transactions. Foreign exchange revenue represented 17% of Western Unions total consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008. Commission and other revenues Commission and other revenues represented 3% of our total consolidated revenue for the year ended December 31, 2008. Commission and other revenues primarily consist of commissions we receive in connection with the sale of money orders, enrollment fees received when consumers enroll in our Equity Accelerator&reg; program (a recurring mortgage payment service program), and investment income primarily derived from interest generated on money transfer and payment services settlement assets as well as realized net gains and losses from such assets. Cost of services Cost of services primarily consists of agent commissions and expenses for call centers, settlement operations, and related information technology costs. Expenses within these functions include personnel, software, equipment, telecommunications, bank fees, depreciation and amortization and other expenses incurred in connection with providing money transfer and other payment services. Selling, general and administrative Selling, general and administrative, or SG&A, primarily consists of salaries, wages and related expenses paid to sales and administrative personnel, as well as certain advertising and promotional costs and other selling and administrative expenses. Prior to September 29, 2006, the date of the spin off, SG&A also included allocations of general corporate overhead costs from First Data. Interest income Interest income consists of interest earned on cash balances not required to satisfy settlement obligations and in connection with loans made to several agents. Interest expense Interest expense represents interest incurred in connection with outstanding borrowings payable, including applicable amounts associated with interest rate swaps, to third parties. 44 Table of Contents Interest income from First Data, net Interest income from First Data, net consists of interest income earned on notes receivable from First Data, net of interest expense incurred on notes payable to First Data. All notes receivable and payable were settled in connection with the spin off on September 29, 2006. Derivative (losses)/gains, net Represents the portion of the change in fair value that is excluded from the measure of effectiveness related to contracts designated as accounting hedges entered into on or after September 29, 2006. Those amounts include (a) differences between changes in forward rates and spot rates, and (b) gains or losses on the contract and any offsetting positions during the periods in which the instrument is not designated as a hedge. Derivative gains and losses do not include fluctuations in foreign currency forward contracts intended to mitigate exposures on settlement activities of our money transfer business or on certain foreign currency denominated cash positions. Gains and losses associated with those foreign currency forward contracts are included in cost of services, consistent with exchange rate fluctuations on the related settlement assets, obligations and cash positions. Derivative gains and losses also include realized and unrealized gains and losses associated with certain foreign currency forward contracts that did not qualify as hedges under derivative accounting rules prior to September 29, 2006. Foreign exchange effect on notes receivable from First Data, net Certain of the notes receivable from First Data in our consolidated balance sheets prior to September 29, 2006, the spin off date, were repayable in euros, and certain of those euro denominated notes also had foreign currency swap agreements associated with them. These notes receivable were translated based on current exchange rates between the euro and the United States dollar, and changes in fair value of the related foreign currency swap agreements were recorded based on current market valuations. The effect of translation adjustments and recording the foreign currency swaps to market is reflected in our consolidated statements of income as foreign exchange effect on notes receivable from First Data. All notes receivable and payable with First Data were settled in connection with the spin off on September 29, 2006. Other income, net Other income, net is comprised primarily of equity earnings from equity method investments and other income and expenses. Results of Operations The following discussion of our consolidated results of operations and segment results refers to the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to the same period in 2007 and the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to the same period in 2006. The results of operations should be read in conjunction with the discussion of our segment results of operations, which provide more detailed discussions concerning certain components of the consolidated statements of income. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions between our companys segments have been eliminated. We incurred expenses of $82.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 for restructuring and related activities, which have not been allocated to our segments. While these items are identifiable to our segments, they are not included in the measurement of segment operating profit provided to the chief operating decision maker (CODM) for purposes of assessing segment performance and decision making with respect to resource allocation. For additional information on restructuring and related activities refer to Operating expenses overview. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we incurred a $22.3 million accelerated stock based compensation vesting charge related to KKRs acquisition of First Data, which was allocated to our segments. For additional information refer to Operating expenses overview. 45 Table of Contents The following table sets forth our consolidated results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. Years Ended December 31, % Change (in millions, except per share amounts) 2008 2007 2006 2008vs. 2007 2007vs. 2006 Revenues: Transaction fees $ 4,240.8 $ 3,989.8 $ 3,696.6 6 % 8 % Foreign exchange revenue 896.3 771.3 653.9 16 % 18 % Commission and other revenues 144.9 139.1 119.7 4 % 16 % Total revenues 5,282.0 4,900.2 4,470.2 8 % 10 % Expenses: Cost of services 3,093.0 2,808.4 2,430.5 10 % 16 % Selling, general and administrative 834.0 769.8 728.3 8 % 6 % Total expenses 3,927.0 3,578.2 3,158.8 10 % 13 % Operating income 1,355.0 1,322.0 1,311.4 2 % 1 % Other (expense)/income: Interest income 45.2 79.4 40.1 (43 )% 98 % Interest expense (171.2 ) (189.0 ) (53.4 ) (9 )% 254 % Derivative (losses)/gains, net (6.9 ) 8.3 (21.2 ) * * Foreign exchange effect on notes receivable from First Data, net 10.1 * Interest income from First Data, net 35.7 * Other income, net 16.6 1.7 12.4 * * Total other (expense)/income, net (116.3 ) (99.6 ) 23.7 17 % * Income before income taxes 1,238.7 1,222.4 1,335.1 1 % (8 )% Provision for income taxes 319.7 365.1 421.1 (12 )% (13 )% Net income $ 919.0 $ 857.3 $ 914.0 7 % (6 )% Earnings per share: Basic $ 1.26 $ 1.13 $ 1.20 12 % (6 )% Diluted $ 1.24 $ 1.11 $ 1.19 12 % (7 )% Weighted average shares outstanding: Basic 730.1 760.2 764.5 Diluted 738.2 772.9 768.6 * Calculation not meaningful Revenues overview The following provides highlights of revenue growth while a more detailed discussion is included in Segment Discussion. The majority of transaction fees and foreign exchange revenue are contributed by our consumer to consumer segment, which is discussed in greater detail in Segment Discussion. Consolidated revenue growth of 8% and 10% during the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, was primarily driven by revenue growth internationally, particularly in the Europe, Middle East, Africa and South Asia (EMEASA) region, due to increased money transfers at existing agent locations, and to a lesser extent, money transfers at new agent locations and due to the impact of translating foreign currency denominated revenues into the United States dollar, specifically the euro, discussed below. Our international consumer to consumer transactions that were originated outside of the United States also continued to experience strong revenue and 46 Table of Contents transaction growth for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 compared to the corresponding periods in the prior year. We experienced strong growth in our money transfer business to India, and in the Gulf States, which offset slower growth in certain European markets for the year ended 2008 compared to 2007. However, during the fourth quarter of 2008, revenue was impacted by the weakening global economy and its effect on Western Union customers. In the fourth quarter, transaction growth rates slowed sequentially compared to the first nine months of 2008. In addition, the amount of money remitted per transaction declined in the fourth quarter of 2008 compared to the fourth quarter of 2007. These factors resulted in less transaction fee and foreign exchange revenue in the fourth quarter of 2008 compared to the fourth quarter of 2007. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the United States dollar and currencies other than the United States dollar for the year ended December 31, 2008 have resulted in a benefit to transaction fee and foreign exchange revenue of $96 million, over the previous year, net of foreign currency hedges, that would not have occurred had there been constant currency rates. The positive impact to operating profit derived from foreign currency exchange rates increasing against the United States dollar during the year was offset by the impact of foreign currency derivative losses for those foreign currency derivatives not designated as hedges and the portion of fair value that is excluded from the measure of effectiveness for these contracts designated as hedges thereby resulting in a minimal impact to overall earnings per share. Transactions in the euro, which represent the majority of the Companys foreign currency denominated business, benefited revenue by $82 million and operating income by $19 million during the year. The benefit in the first three quarters of 2008 was slightly offset by the negative impact to consumer to consumer transaction fee and foreign exchange revenue in the fourth quarter of 2008 due to the strengthening of the United States dollar relative to certain other currencies, including the euro. However, the impact to our operating income was positive to the fourth quarter of 2008 due to our derivative hedges. If exchange rates between the United States dollar and other currencies remain constant with those experienced at the end of 2008, or if other currencies continue to weaken against the United States dollar, we expect a negative impact on our revenue in 2009. However, the impact to earnings per share is expected to be less due to the impact of translation on our expenses and our hedging program. The fluctuation in the exchange rate between the euro and the United States dollar (which contributed to the majority of the impact of translating foreign currency denominated revenues and expenses into United States dollars) for the year ended December 31, 2007 resulted in a benefit to consumer to consumer transaction fee and foreign exchange of $79 million, over the previous year, net of foreign currency hedges, that would not have occurred had there been a constant exchange rate. For the year ended December 31, 2007 the related benefit to operating income was $12 million. Our Asia Pacific (APAC) region also experienced strong transaction and revenue growth during the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 compared to the corresponding previous periods, including growth contributed by the inbound market of the Philippines. Revenue growth slowed in APAC during the fourth quarter 2008 compared to the same period in 2007, in part due to the weakening global economy described previously and the decline in high revenue transactions from small entrepreneurs that typically make purchases in China. Within our Americas region (which includes North America, Latin America, the Caribbean, and South America), our United States to Mexico, United States outbound and transactions in our domestic (between and within the United States and Canada) businesses continued to be impacted by the overall weakening in the United States economy. The immigration debate and market softness, in part due to the slowdown in the construction industry, began adversely impacting the United States businesses in the second quarter of 2006. We responded to these factors by launching distribution, pricing, advertising, promotion and community outreach initiatives in 2006 and 2007. Although the United States businesses revenue decline experienced in 2008 moderated compared with 2007, we experienced increased revenue declines in the fourth quarter of 2008 compared to the third quarter of 2008, due to the weakening in the United States economy. Foreign exchange revenue increased for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 over the corresponding previous periods, due to an increase in cross currency transactions primarily as a result of growth 47 Table of Contents in international consumer to consumer transactions. As described above, foreign exchange revenue also benefited during the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to 2007 from the strengthening of other currencies most notably the euro, against the United States dollar. We have historically implemented and will likely implement future strategic fee reductions and actions to reduce foreign exchange spreads, where appropriate, taking into account growth opportunities and competitive factors. Fee decreases and foreign exchange actions generally reduce margins, but are done in anticipation that they will result in increased transaction volumes and increased revenues over time. Such fee decreases and foreign exchange actions have impacted our annual consolidated revenue on average approximately 3% during 2006 and 2007 and approximately 1% in 2008. Pago F&aacute;cil, which was acquired in December 2006, contributed $67.7 million and $3.6 million of revenue for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, and also contributed to consolidated revenue growth in 2007 compared to 2006. Operating expenses overview The following factors impacted both cost of services and selling, general and administrative expenses during the periods presented: Restructuring and Related Activities In 2008, we incurred restructuring and related expenses in conjunction with the decision to close our facilities in Missouri and Texas, including the elimination of approximately 650 positions held by union employees and certain management positions in these same facilities, as well as other reorganizations. The $82.9 million of expenses incurred in 2008 were offset by operating expense savings of approximately $10 million in 2008 and are expected to be offset by approximately $40 million annually beginning in 2009. 2007 Stock Compensation Charge At the time of the spin off, First Data converted stock options, restricted stock awards, and restricted stock units (collectively, stock based awards) of First Data stock held by Western Union and First Data employees. Both Western Union and First Data employees received converted Western Union stock based awards. All converted stock based awards, which had not vested prior to September 24, 2007, were subject to the terms and conditions applicable to the original First Data stock based awards, including change of control provisions which require full vesting upon a change of control of First Data. Accordingly, upon the completion of the acquisition of First Data on September 24, 2007 by an affiliate of KKR, all of these remaining converted unvested Western Union stock based awards vested. In connection with this accelerated vesting, we incurred a non cash pre tax charge of $22.3 million during the third quarter of 2007. Approximately one third of this charge was recorded within cost of services and two thirds was recorded within selling, general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of income. Incremental Independent Public Company Expenses We recorded recurring incremental independent public company expenses of $59.1 million and $25.1 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively, in the consolidated statements of income. These expenses are those in excess of amounts allocated to us by First Data prior to September 29, 2006 or beyond amounts we presume First Data would have allocated subsequently thereto. Most of these expenses continue to be incurred in subsequent periods. Cost of services In addition to the restructuring costs described above, cost of services increased for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to the corresponding period in 2007 primarily due to agent commissions which increase as revenues increase. Cost of services as a percentage of revenue was 59%, 57% and 54% for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The majority of the increase in cost of services as a percentage of revenue for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to the corresponding period in 2007 was 48 Table of Contents primarily due to restructuring and related expenses of $62.8 million as described above, and the shift in our business mix reflecting stronger growth from our international consumer to consumer business, which carries higher cost of services compared to our United States originated businesses. Selected consumer to consumer international agent commissions have been lowered but were partially offset by certain higher commissions in the United States. In addition, a higher percentage of our consumer to business services were generated from our United States electronic based payments and payments related to Pago F&aacute;cil, each of which had higher cost of services as a percentage of revenue compared to our United States cash based payments business. The increase was partially offset by lower stock compensation charges for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to the corresponding period in 2007, as described above and below, that did not recur in 2008. The majority of the increase in cost of services as a percentage of revenue for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to the corresponding period in 2006 was attributable to the shift in our business mix reflecting stronger growth from our international business, as described above. The Pago F&aacute;cil business, which carries a lower margin than our existing consumer to business services, also contributed to the increase in cost of services. The stock compensation charge resulting from the acquisition of First Data, as described above, and incremental public company expenses were additional factors leading to the increase in cost of services in 2007. Selling, general and administrative Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses increased for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to the same period in the prior year due to higher employee compensation expenses and restructuring and related expenses of $20.1 million, offset by better leverage of our marketing expenses as well as lower stock compensation charges in 2008, as described above. SG&A expenses increased for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to the corresponding period in 2006 primarily due to incremental public company expenses and the stock compensation charge related to KKRs acquisition of First Data, as described above. In addition, costs associated with the inclusion of the Pago F&aacute;cil business contributed to the increase in 2007 from 2006. During the year ended December 31, 2008, marketing related expenditures, principally classified within SG&A, were approximately 5.0% of revenue due to better leveraging of our marketing expenditures. For the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, marketing related expenditures were approximately 6.0% and 6.5% of revenue, respectively. Marketing related expenditures include advertising, events, loyalty programs and the cost of employees dedicated to marketing activities. When making decisions with respect to marketing investments, we review opportunities for advertising and other marketing related expenditures together with opportunities for fee adjustments and other initiatives in order to best maximize the return on these investments. Such fee decreases and foreign exchange actions have impacted our annual consolidated revenue on average approximately 3% during 2006 and 2007 and approximately 1% in 2008. For further discussion regarding the impact of pricing decreases refer to the Revenues overview discussion within the consumer to consumer segment section. Interest income Interest income decreased during the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to 2007 due primarily to lower short term interest rates, and to a lesser extent, lower average interest bearing cash balances. Interest income increased during the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to 2006 due to higher international cash balances resulting from the net cash received in connection with the settlement of intercompany notes with First Data (net of certain other payments made to First Data) on the spin off date, and from cash generated through our international operations. Also contributing to higher interest income in 2007 compared to 2006 was interest income recorded in connection with a $140.0 million loan made to one of our agents in the first quarter of 2006. 49 Table of Contents Interest expense Interest expense decreased for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to 2007 due to decreases in interest rates related to our floating rate debt. Interest expense increased for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to 2006 due to interest expense on our outstanding borrowings that arose in connection with the spin off on September 29, 2006. Interest expense was significantly higher in 2007 since the related borrowings were outstanding for the full year 2007 compared to three months during 2006. Derivative (losses)/gains, net Derivative (losses)/gains, net for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 relate primarily to the portion of the change in fair value of foreign currency accounting hedges that is excluded from the measurement of effectiveness, which includes (a) differences between changes in forward rates and spot rates, and (b) gains or losses on the contract and any offsetting positions during periods in which the instrument is not designated as a hedge. Although the majority of changes in the value of our hedges are deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income or loss until settlement (i.e. spot rate changes), the remaining portion of changes in value are recognized in income as they occur. The significant volatility in the fluctuation in foreign currency forward rates compared to spot rates primarily related to the euro has resulted in charges of $6.9 million in the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to gains of $8.3 million in 2007. Prior to September 29, 2006, we did not have any forward contracts that qualified as hedges, and therefore the unrealized gains and losses on these contracts were reflected within this line item in the consolidated statements of income prior to that date. Our foreign currency forward contracts that did not qualify as hedges under applicable derivative accounting rules were held primarily in the euro and British pound and had maturities of one year or less. Since these instruments did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment, there was resulting volatility in our net income for the periods presented prior to September 29, 2006. On September 29, 2006, we established our foreign currency forward positions to qualify for cash flow hedge accounting. Foreign exchange effect on notes receivable from First Data, net All euro denominated notes receivable with First Data, and related foreign currency swap agreements were settled in connection with the spin off on September 29, 2006. Accordingly, no amounts related to the revaluation of such notes or related swaps were recorded during the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, explaining the decrease from the year ended December 31, 2006. No such amounts will be recognized in future periods. Prior to the spin off, the revaluation to fair market value of these euro denominated notes receivable from First Data and the related foreign currency swap arrangements benefited income before income taxes for the year ended December 31, 2006 by $10.1 million due to changes in the value of the euro compared to the United States dollar. Interest income from First Data, net Interest income from First Data, net consists of interest income earned on notes receivable from First Data, partially offset by interest incurred on notes payable to First Data. All notes receivable and payable were settled in connection with the spin off on September 29, 2006, and accordingly, no such amounts were recognized during the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007. Other income, net Changes in other income, net during the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 compared to the previous corresponding years were primarily attributable to fluctuations in equity earnings from equity method investments. Income taxes Our effective tax rates on pretax income were 25.8%, 29.9% and 31.5% for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. We continue to benefit from an increasing proportion of profits being 50 Table of Contents foreign derived and therefore taxed at lower rates than our combined federal and state tax rates in the United States. In addition, the decreasing effective tax rate in 2008 compared to 2007 is also attributed to the implementation of foreign tax efficient strategies consistent with our overall tax planning and the favorable resolution of certain United States tax matters. We have established contingency reserves for material, known tax exposures, including potential tax audit adjustments with respect to our international operations restructured in 2003, whereby our income from certain foreign to foreign money transfer transactions has been taxed at relatively low foreign tax rates compared to our combined federal and state tax rates in the United States. As of December 31, 2008, the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits is a liability of $397.0 million, including accrued interest and penalties. Our reserves reflect our judgment as to the resolution of the issues involved if subject to judicial review. While we believe that our reserves are adequate to cover reasonably expected tax risks, there can be no assurance that, in all instances, an issue raised by a tax authority will be resolved at a financial cost that does not exceed our related reserve. With respect to these reserves, our income tax expense would include (i) any changes in tax reserves arising from material changes during the period in facts and circumstances (i.e. new information) surrounding a tax issue, and (ii) any difference from our tax position as recorded in the financial statements and the final resolution of a tax issue during the period. Such resolution could materially increase or decrease income tax expense in our consolidated financial statements in future periods. The United States Internal Revenue Service (IRS) completed its examination of the United States federal consolidated income tax returns of First Data for 2003 and 2004, of which we are a part, and issued a Notice of Deficiency in December 2008. The Notice of Deficiency alleges significant additional taxes, interest and penalties owed with respect to a variety of adjustments involving us and our subsidiaries, and we generally have responsibility for taxes associated with these potential Western Union related adjustments under the tax allocation agreement with First Data executed at the time of the spin off. We agree with a number of the adjustments in the Notice of Deficiency; however, we do not agree with the Notice of Deficiency regarding several substantial adjustments representing total alleged additional tax and penalties due of approximately $114 million. As of December 31, 2008, interest on the alleged amounts due for unagreed adjustments would be approximately $23 million. A substantial part of the alleged amounts due for these unagreed adjustments relates to our international restructuring, which took effect in the fourth quarter 2003, and, accordingly, the alleged amounts due related to such restructuring largely are attributable to 2004. We expect to contest those adjustments with which we do not agree with by filing a petition in the United States Tax Court. We believe our overall reserves are adequate, including those associated with adjustments alleged in the Notice of Deficiency. If the IRS position in the Notice of Deficiency is sustained, our tax provision related to 2003 and later years would materially increase. Earnings per share During the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, basic earnings per share were $1.26, $1.13 and $1.20, respectively, and diluted earnings per share were $1.24, $1.11 and $1.19, respectively. All issued and outstanding shares of Western Union common stock until the spin off on September 29, 2006, consisting of 100 shares, were held by First Data. Accordingly, for all periods presented prior to the spin off date of September 29, 2006, basic and diluted earnings per share were computed using our basic shares outstanding as of the spin off date. Unvested shares of restricted stock are excluded from basic shares outstanding. Diluted earnings per share reflects the potential dilution that could occur if outstanding stock options on the presented dates are exercised and shares of restricted stock have vested. As of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, there were 8.0 million, 10.4 million and 4.9 million, respectively, of outstanding options to purchase shares of Western Union stock excluded from the diluted earnings per share calculation under the treasury stock method as their effect is anti dilutive. The treasury stock method assumes proceeds from the exercise price of stock options, the unamortized compensation expense and assumed tax benefits of options and restricted stock are available to acquire shares at an average price throughout the year, and therefore, reduce the dilutive effect throughout the year. Of the 51 Table of Contents 43.6 million, 59.4 million and 73.8 million outstanding options to purchase shares of our common stock as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, approximately 47%, 58% and 60%, respectively, are held by employees of First Data. Diluted earnings per share increased during the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to 2007 due to the increased net income as a result of the previously described factors and lower weighted average diluted shares outstanding. The lower number of diluted shares outstanding was driven by stock repurchases exceeding stock option exercises in 2008 compared to 2007. Diluted earnings per share decreased during the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to the previous period due to the decrease in net income as a result of the previously described factors and the increase in diluted shares outstanding. Prior to the September 29, 2006 spin off date, there were no potentially dilutive instruments outstanding and, accordingly, the potentially dilutive shares arising in connection with the spin off had minimal impact to 2006 due to the impact of weighting. In 2007, the dilutive shares outstanding were outstanding for a full year. Segment Discussion We manage our business around the consumers we serve and the types of services we offer. Each of our two segments addresses a different combination of consumer groups, distribution networks and services offered. Our segments are consumer to consumer and consumer to business, as described earlier. Businesses not considered part of these segments are categorized as Other. The business segment measurements provided to, and evaluated by, our CODM are computed in accordance with the following principles: The accounting policies of the reporting segments are the same as those described in the summary of significant accounting policies. Corporate and other overhead is allocated to the segments primarily based on a percentage of the segments revenue. Expenses incurred in connection with the development of certain new service offerings, including costs to develop mobile money transfer services, new prepaid service offerings and non recurring costs incurred to effect the spin off are included in Other. Restructuring and related activities of $82.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 have not been allocated to the segments. While these items are identifiable to our segments, they are not included in the measurement of segment operating profit provided to the CODM for purposes of assessing segment performance and decision making with respect to resource allocation. For additional information on restructuring and related activities refer to Operating expenses overview. All items not included in operating income are excluded. 52 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the components of segment revenues as a percentage of the consolidated totals for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Consumer to consumer (a) EMEASA 44 % 40 % 38 % Americas 34 % 37 % 41 % APAC 7 % 6 % 5 % Total Consumer to consumer 85 % 83 % 84 % Consumer to business 14 % 15 % 14 % Other 1 % 2 % 2 % Total 100 % 100 % 100 % (a) The geographic split is determined based upon the region where the money transfer is initiated and the region where the money transfer is paid. For transactions originated and paid in different regions, we split the revenue between the two regions, with each region receiving 50%. For money transfers initiated and paid in the same region, 100% of the revenue is attributed to that region. Consumer to Consumer Segment The following table sets forth our consumer to consumer segment results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. Years Ended December 31, % Change (dollars and transactions in millions) 2008 2007 2006 2008vs. 2007 2007vs. 2006 Revenues: Transaction fees $ 3,532.9 $ 3,286.6 $ 3,059.0 7 % 7 % Foreign exchange revenue 893.1 769.3 652.4 16 % 18 % Other revenues 45.6 37.2 33.5 23 % 11 % Total revenues $ 4,471.6 $ 4,093.1 $ 3,744.9 9 % 9 % Operating income $ 1,222.7 $ 1,078.3 $ 1,069.7 13 % 1 % Operating margin 27 % 26 % 29 % Key indicators: Consumer to consumer transactions 188.1 167.7 147.1 12 % 14 % The table below sets forth transaction and revenue growth/(decline) rates by region for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007. Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 Consumer to consumer transaction growth (a): EMEASA 23 % 26 % Americas 2 % 5 % APAC 27 % 34 % Consumer to consumer revenue growth/(decline) (a): EMEASA 16 % 18 % Americas (1 )% (2 )% APAC 22 % 34 % (a) In determining the revenue and transaction growth rates under the regional view in the above table, the geographic split is determined based upon the region where the money transfer is initiated and the region 53 Table of Contents where the money transfer is paid. For transactions originated and paid in different regions, we split the transaction count and revenue between the two regions, with each region receiving 50%. For money transfers initiated and paid in the same region, 100% of the revenue and transactions are attributed to that region. When referring to revenue and transaction growth rates for individual countries in the following discussion, all transactions to, from and within those countries, and 100% of the revenue associated with each transaction to, from and within those countries are included. India and China combined represented approximately 6%, 5% and 4% of consolidated Western Union revenues during the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Mexico represented approximately 7%, 7% and 8% of consolidated Western Union revenues during the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Revenues overview 2008 compared to 2007 The primary drivers of consumer to consumer revenue growth are transaction fees and foreign exchange revenue. Consumer to consumer money transfer revenue growth was 9% for the year ended December 31, 2008 over the same period in 2007. This increase was driven by revenue growth of 13% in our international business on transaction growth of 17%. Our international business represents all transactions other than transactions between and within the United States and Canada and transactions to and from Mexico. Our international consumer to consumer business outside of the United States also continued to experience strong revenue growth for the year ended December 31, 2008 as a result of strong transaction growth. However, during the fourth quarter of 2008, revenue was impacted by the weakening global economy and its effect on Western Union customers. In the fourth quarter, transaction growth rates slowed sequentially compared to the first nine months of 2008. In addition, the amount of money remitted per transaction declined in the fourth quarter of 2008 compared to the fourth quarter of 2007. These factors resulted in less transaction fee and foreign exchange revenue in the fourth quarter of 2008 compared to the fourth quarter of 2007. Revenue growth in our EMEASA region was 16% on transaction growth of 23% for the year ended December 31, 2008 over the same period in 2007. The growth in our EMEASA region during the year ended December 31, 2008, was primarily driven by transaction growth and the impact of translating foreign currency denominated revenues into the United States dollar, specifically the euro, as further described below. Contributing to the growth in the EMEASA region was strong transaction growth of over 60% in our money transfer business to India for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to the corresponding period in 2007, resulting in revenue growth of over 45%. Over the same period, revenue growth in the Gulf States continued to be strong. However, revenue growth in some European markets during the year ended December 31, 2008 slowed over the previous year, especially during the fourth quarter of 2008 as certain countries within Europe, such as Spain, have experienced declines in the housing industry and rising unemployment. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the United States dollar and currencies other than the United States dollar for the year ended December 31, 2008 have resulted in a benefit to transaction fee and foreign exchange revenue of $96 million, over the previous year, net of foreign currency hedges, that would not have occurred had there been constant currency rates. The positive impact to operating profit derived from foreign currency exchange rates increasing against the United States dollar during the year was offset by the impact of foreign currency derivative losses for those foreign currency derivatives not designated as hedges and the portion of fair value that is excluded from the measure of effectiveness for these contracts designated as hedges thereby resulting in a minimal impact to overall earnings per share. Transactions in the euro, which represent the majority of the Companys foreign currency denominated business, benefited revenue by $82 million and operating income by $19 million during the year. If exchange rates between the United States dollar and other currencies remain constant with those experienced at the end of 2008, or if the euro and certain other currencies continue to weaken against the United States dollar, we expect a negative impact on our revenue in 2009. However, the impact to earnings per share is expected to be less due to the impact of translation on our expenses and our hedging program. 54 Table of Contents Americas revenue declined 1% for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to the corresponding period in 2007 but transactions grew 2% for the same period. The United States domestic and the United States outbound revenue continued to decline, due to the overall weakening in the United States economy and rising unemployment, for the year ended December 31, 2008. Within the Americas region, revenue declines in our domestic (transactions between and within the United States and Canada) business, which represents approximately 10% of consolidated revenue for the year ended December 31, 2008, continued to occur due to the factors described above. Although the domestic and United States outbound revenue declines experienced in 2008 have moderated compared to those experienced in 2007, we did experience increased revenue declines in the fourth quarter of 2008 compared to the third quarter of 2008, due to the further weakening in the United States economy. Domestic revenue declined 6% on transaction declines of 3% for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to the corresponding period in 2007. In addition, United States telephone money transfer revenues continued to decline, and website money transfer revenues were flat for the year ended December 31, 2008. Revenue in our Mexico business was down 2% on transaction declines of 1% for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to the same period in 2007. The Mexico business continues to be impacted by the weakening in the United States economy, noted earlier, with such declines increasing in the fourth quarter of 2008. During a few weeks in the fourth quarter 2008, the value of the Mexican peso decreased dramatically against the United States dollar and, as a result, we experienced a spike in transactions as United States senders took advantage of the more favorable exchange rates. As the devaluation of the peso was sudden and unusual, we needed to acquire pesos at less favorable rates in order to meet the demand for immediate payout in Mexico, which impacted the overall decline in revenue by less than $5 million. In early July 2008, the Arizona Court of Appeals overturned a trial courts ruling in Western Unions favor regarding the authority of the Arizona Attorney General to seize money transfers originated in states other than Arizona and intended for payment in Mexico. In December, the Arizona Supreme Court agreed to hear the case, which was argued on January 13, 2009. However, a decision has not yet been rendered. The Arizona Attorney General has not attempted to resume the type of seizures that are at issue in this litigation. However, we remain subject to scrutiny in Arizona by law enforcement and regulatory agencies. The Arizona Attorney General has and continues to make extensive data requests of us regarding our operations, our agents and our consumers. On January 8, 2009, the Arizona Superior Court ruled in Western Unions favor and held that certain subpoenas for Western Union transaction data issued by the Arizona Attorney General were over broad and unenforceable. However, the legal and regulatory environment in Arizona remains challenging, and we could become subject to additional civil and possibly criminal actions. To date, we have not experienced any measurable impact to our Americas business as a result of the recent Arizona Court of Appeals decision or the data requests by the Arizona Attorney General. However, additional civil or criminal actions or an unfavorable resolution of the case described above could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. Revenue and transaction growth in the APAC region for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to the same period in 2007 was driven by strong inbound growth to the region, especially to the Philippines. China revenue and transactions grew at 13% and 11% for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to the corresponding period in 2007, respectively. Revenue growth rates slowed to China during the third quarter of 2008, with revenue declining in the fourth quarter of 2008 compared to the same period in 2007, in part due to the weakening economic situation described previously and the decline in high revenue transactions from small entrepreneurs that typically make purchases in China. Foreign exchange revenue increased for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to the same period in the prior year due to an increase in cross currency transactions primarily as a result of growth in international consumer to consumer transactions. As described above, foreign exchange revenue also benefited during the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to 2007 from the exchange rate between other currencies against the United States dollar, despite the negative impact of currency rate fluctuations in the fourth quarter of 2008. 55 Table of Contents We have historically implemented and will likely implement future strategic fee reductions and actions to reduce foreign exchange spreads, where appropriate, taking into account growth opportunities and competitive factors. Fee decreases and foreign exchange actions generally reduce margins, but are done in anticipation that they will result in increased transaction volumes and increased revenues over time. During the year ended December 31, 2008, fee decreases and foreign exchange actions have occurred at a significantly lower rate than in previous years. Such fee decreases and foreign exchange actions have impacted our annual consolidated revenue on average approximately 3% during 2006 and 2007 and approximately 1% in 2008. Contributing to the increase in total consumer to consumer money transfer revenue and transaction growth in all periods presented was the growth in transactions at existing agent locations, the increased number of agent locations and marketing campaigns promoting the Western Union brand and services. The majority of transaction growth is derived from more mature agent locations; new agent locations typically contribute only marginally to revenue growth in the first few years of their operation. Increased productivity, measured by transactions per location, is often experienced as locations mature. We believe that new agent locations will help drive growth by increasing the number of locations available to send and receive money. We generally refer to locations with more than 50% of transactions being initiated (versus paid) as send locations and to the balance of locations as receive locations. Send locations are the engine that drives consumer to consumer revenue. They contribute more transactions per location than receive locations. However, a wide network of receive locations is necessary to build each corridor and to help ensure global distribution and convenience for consumers to generate transactions. The number of send and receive transactions at an agent location can vary significantly due to such factors as customer demographics around the location, immigration patterns, the locations class of trade, hours of operation, length of time the location has been offering our services, regulatory limitations and competition. Each of the more than 375,000 agent locations in our agent network is capable of providing one or more of our services; however, not every location completes a transaction in a given period. For example, as of December 31, 2008, more than 85% of agent locations in the United States, Canada and Western Europe (representing at least one of our three money transfer brands) experienced money transfer activity in the previous 12 months. In the developing regions of Asia and other areas where there are primarily receive locations, approximately 70% of locations experienced money transfer activity in the previous 12 months. We periodically review locations to determine whether they remain enabled to perform money transfer transactions. 2007 compared to 2006 Consumer to consumer money transfer revenue growth was 9% for the year ended December 31, 2007 over 2006. This increase was driven by revenue growth of 15% in our international business on transaction growth of 20%. Our international consumer to consumer business outside of the United States also continued to experience strong revenue growth for the year ended December 31, 2007 as a result of strong transaction growth. Revenue growth in our EMEASA region was 18% on transaction growth of 26% for the year ended December 31, 2007 over the same period in 2006. The growth in our EMEASA region during the year ended December 31, 2007, was primarily driven by transaction growth and the impact of the euro, as further described below. Contributing to the growth in the EMEASA region was strong transaction growth of 75% in our money transfer business to India for the year ended December 31, 2007, resulting in revenue growth of 44% for the year ended December 31, 2007. In addition, fluctuations in the exchange rate between the euro and the United States dollar have resulted in a benefit to consumer to consumer transaction fee and foreign exchange revenue of $79 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 over 2006, that would not have occurred had there been a constant exchange rate. For the years ended December 31, 2007, the related benefit to operating income was $12 million. Americas revenue declined 2% for the year ended December 31, 2007 but transactions grew 5% for the same period. The United States to Mexico, United States domestic and the United States outbound revenue were adversely impacted by various factors in the United States for the year ended December 31, 2007. These factors, 56 Table of Contents which began in the second quarter 2006, include the immigration debate and market softness, in part due to the slowdown in the construction industry. We responded to these factors by launching distribution, pricing, advertising, promotion and community outreach initiatives. Within the Americas region, revenue declines in our domestic business, which represents approximately 11% of consolidated revenue for the year ended December 31, 2007, continued to occur due to the factors described above. Domestic revenue declined 10% on transaction declines of 4% for the year ended December 31, 2007 over the same period in 2006. Domestic revenue declined at a higher rate than transactions, due in part to the impact of price decreases and lower principal amounts sent. In addition, transactions and revenues for money transfers initiated on our website and through the telephone declined for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to the same period in 2006. Transactions initiated in the United States were impacted by tightened controls implemented beginning in early 2007 by Western Union, card issuing banks and card associations in response to credit and debit card fraud in the United States. These tightened controls have directly impacted our consumers ability to use their debit and credit cards to send money on our website and through the telephone, decreasing the volume of transactions. Card issuing banks and card associations have begun to allow more consumer transactions to be processed, in part in response to Western Unions own increased scrutiny of these transactions. Revenue in our Mexico business, which represented 7% of consolidated revenue for the year ended December 31, 2007, declined 4% for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to 2006, despite increased transaction growth of 4% for the same period due to price reductions taken in the early part of 2007. However, Mexico revenue and transaction growth rates began to converge during each sequential quarter in 2007 as there were no significant pricing reductions after the early part of 2007. Revenue and transaction growth in the APAC region for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to the same period in 2006 was driven by strong inbound growth to the region, especially to the Philippines. China revenue and transactions grew at 37% and 25% for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to the corresponding period in 2006, respectively. Foreign exchange revenue increased for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to the same period in the prior year due to an increase in cross currency transactions primarily as a result of strong growth in international consumer to consumer transactions, partially offset by reduced foreign exchange rate spreads in selected markets. Operating income 2008 compared to 2007 Consumer to consumer operating income increased for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to 2007, primarily driven by higher revenue and related profits from increased transactions internationally and lower stock based compensation expenses. Of the $22.3 million accelerated stock based compensation vesting charge in 2007 taken in connection with the change in control of First Data, that did not recur in 2008, $18.9 million was allocated to this segment in 2007. During the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to 2007, the operating income increase was partially offset by revenue declines in our United States businesses, and higher employee compensation expenses. The ongoing shift in our business mix reflecting stronger growth in our international business, which carries lower profit margins than in our United States originated business, also impacted consumer to consumer operating income during the year ended December 31, 2008. As described earlier in the revenues overview and due to the same factors, operating income growth for the consumer to consumer segment was lower in the fourth quarter of 2008 than that experienced in the previous nine months. Consumer to consumer operating income margin also increased during the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to 2007, primarily due to lower stock based compensation expense, as described above. This increase was partially offset by revenue declines in our United States businesses and the ongoing shift in our business mix 57 Table of Contents reflecting stronger growth in our international business, which carries lower profit margins than in our United States originated business as noted earlier. However, we have been experiencing a convergence between international operating profits margins and profit margins of our United States originated businesses. 2007 compared to 2006 The consumer to consumer segments operating income increased by 1% for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to the corresponding period in 2006. This increase was primarily driven by increased revenue in our international business. Operating income during the year ended December 31, 2007 was impacted by the ongoing shift in our business mix reflecting stronger growth in our international business, which carries lower profit margins than in our United States originated businesses. However, we have been experiencing a convergence between international operating profit margins and profit margins of our United States originated businesses. Operating income during the year ended December 31, 2007 was adversely impacted by incremental public company expenses which are incremental to both costs allocated by First Data prior to the spin off and presumed overhead allocations from First Data had we remained part of First Data. Such incremental public company expenses include salaries, benefits, equipment, supplies and other costs incurred in connection with operating as a separate public company. In addition, we recognized an accelerated non cash stock compensation charge of $22.3 million taken in connection with the change in control of First Data, of which 85% was allocated to the consumer to consumer segment. Consumer to Business Segment The following table sets forth our consumer to business segment results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. Years Ended December 31, % Change (dollars and transactions in millions) 2008 2007 2006 2008vs. 2007 2007vs. 2006 Revenues: Transaction fees $ 668.1 $ 665.5 $ 593.7 12 % Other revenues 51.7 54.4 42.5 (5 )% 28 % Total revenues $ 719.8 $ 719.9 $ 636.2 13 % Operating income $ 199.4 $ 223.7 $ 223.3 (11 )% Operating margin 28 % 31 % 35 % Key indicators: Consumer to business transactions 412.1 404.5 249.4 2 % 62 % Revenues 2008 compared to 2007 During the year ended December 31, 2008, overall revenue was flat compared to the corresponding period in 2007, as revenue growth in the Pago F&aacute;cil business was offset by a decline in United States cash based bill payment revenue. The consumer to business segment, including the United States electronic based bill payments business which experienced flat revenues year over year, was adversely impacted in the last half of 2008 due to the weakening economy in the United States. Some consumers who are likely to use our services are having difficulty paying their bills and are unable to obtain credit in any form, resulting in us handling fewer bill payments. 2007 compared to 2006 Transaction growth of 62% and revenue growth of 13% in the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to the same period in 2006 primarily resulted from the acquisition of Pago F&aacute;cil and growth in electronic bill payments, partially offset by slight declines in United States cash based bill payments. 58 Table of Contents In December 2006, we acquired the remaining 75% interest in Pago F&aacute;cil. Prior to the acquisition, we held a 25% interest in Pago F&aacute;cil. This acquisition contributed $67.7 million and $3.6 million in revenue for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, of which $64.4 million and $3.6 million related to our consumer to business segment in the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Revenue growth for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to the same period in 2006, excluding Pago F&aacute;cil, was 4%. Transaction growth, excluding Pago F&aacute;cil, was 1% during the year ended December 31, 2007, compared to the same period in 2006. Operating income 2008 compared to 2007 Operating income for the consumer to business segment decreased for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to 2007 primarily due to operating income declines in the United States based bill payments businesses, partially offset by growth in Pago F&aacute;cil payments. Operating income margins also declined as United States electronic based and Pago F&aacute;cil payments, which cumulatively represented a higher percentage of consumer to business revenues in 2008 compared to 2007, have lower operating margins than the declining higher margin United States cash based bill payments business. Partially offsetting operating income declines for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to 2007 was lower stock based compensation expenses as described in the consumer to consumer operating income discussion. 2007 compared to 2006 Operating income for the consumer to business segment was unchanged for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to the same period in 2006 because of the impact of Pago F&aacute;cil and revenue growth in the segments electronic based services businesses, and was offset by incremental public company expenses and the accelerated stock compensation charge taken in connection with the change in control of First Data. Operating income for the period grew at a lower rate than revenues as Pago F&aacute;cil and the electronic based services have lower operating margins compared to the higher margin United States cash based bill payments business, as well as the incremental public company expenses and accelerated stock compensation charge noted above. Other The following table sets forth other results for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. Years Ended December 31, % Change (dollars and transactions in millions) 2008 2007 2006 2008vs. 2007 2007vs. 2006 Revenues $ 90.6 $ 87.2 $ 89.1 4 % (2 )% Operating income $ 15.8 $ 20.0 $ 18.4 (21 )% 9 % Operating income margin 17 % 23 % 21 % Revenues 2008 compared to 2007 Revenue increased for the year ended December 31, 2008 over the same period in 2007 due to revenue growth in our prepaid services business generated outside of the United States. First Data, through its subsidiary Integrated Payment Systems Inc. (IPS), issues our Western Union branded money orders, pursuant to a five year agreement that was executed in conjunction with the spin off. On July 18, 2008, we entered into an agreement with IPS which modified the existing business relationship with respect to the issuance and processing of money orders. Under the terms of that agreement beginning on October 1, 2009 (the Transition Date), IPS will assign and transfer to us certain operating assets used by IPS to 59 Table of Contents issue money orders and an amount of cash sufficient to satisfy all outstanding money order liabilities. On the Transition Date, we will assume IPSs role as issuer of the money orders, including its obligation to pay outstanding money orders and will terminate the existing agreement whereby IPS pays us a fixed return on the outstanding money order balances (which vary from day to day but approximate $800 million). Following the Transition Date, we will invest the cash received from IPS in high quality, investment grade securities in accordance with applicable regulations, which are the same as those currently governing the investment of our United States originated money transfer principal. In anticipation of our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, we have entered into interest rate swaps on certain of our fixed rate notes. Through a combination of the revenue generated from these investment securities and the anticipated interest expense savings resulting from these interest rate swaps, we estimate that we should be able to retain subsequent to the Transition Date, on a pre tax income basis through 2011, a comparable rate of return as we are receiving under our current agreement with IPS. However, revenue may be lower. Subsequent to the Transition Date, all revenue generated from the management of the investment portfolio will be retained by us and none will be shared with our agents. IPS will continue to provide to us clearing services necessary for payment of the money orders in exchange for the payment by us to IPS of a per item administrative fee. We will no longer provide to IPS the services required under the original money order agreement or receive from IPS the fee for such services. 2007 compared to 2006 Our money order and prepaid services businesses, including prepaid services acquired through our acquisition of Pago F&aacute;cil, accounted for 100% and 94% of Other revenue in 2007 and 2006, respectively. We previously operated messaging and international prepaid cellular top up businesses, which were shut down or disposed of in early 2006. Revenue remained relatively constant for the year ended December 31, 2007, due to moderate growth in our money order and prepaid services businesses, offset by the loss of revenue from our shut down or disposed of businesses, which generated revenue for a portion of 2006, while neither business generated revenue in 2007. Operating Income 2008 compared to 2007 For the year ended December 31, 2008, the decrease in operating income was driven by operating income declines related to our money order business, costs incurred to develop mobile money transfer services and our prepaid business within the United States, offset by increased revenue and related profits from our prepaid services business outside of the United States. 2007 compared to 2006 For the year ended December 31, 2007, the increase in operating income was driven by modest growth from our prepaid services. Further financial information relating to each of our segments external revenue, operating profit measures and total assets is set forth in Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements. Capital Resources and Liquidity Our primary source of liquidity has been cash generated from our operating activities, derived primarily from net income, and fluctuations in working capital. Our working capital is affected by the timing of interest payments on our outstanding borrowings, timing of income tax payments, and collections on receivables, among other items. The majority of our interest payments are due in the second and fourth quarters which results in a decrease in the amount of cash provided by operating activities in those quarters, and a corresponding increase to the first and third quarters. 60 Table of Contents Our future cash flows generated from operating activities could be impacted by a variety of factors, some of which are out of our control, including changes in economic conditions, especially those impacting the migrant population, and changes in income tax laws or the status of income tax audits. A significant portion of our cash flows from operating activities has been generated from subsidiaries, some of which are regulated entities. These subsidiaries may transfer all excess cash to the parent company for general corporate use, except for assets subject to legal or regulatory restrictions. Such assets include those located in countries outside of the United States containing restrictions from being transferred outside of those countries and cash and investment balances that are maintained by our regulated subsidiary to secure certain money transfer obligations initiated in the United States in accordance with applicable state regulations in the United States. Significant changes in the regulatory environment for money transmitters could impact our primary source of liquidity. On December 5, 2008, we entered into a senior, unsecured, 364 day term loan in an aggregate principal amount of $500 million (the Term Loan) with a syndicate of lenders. The Term Loan was used for general corporate purposes, including the repayment of commercial paper utilized to retire $500 million of floating rate notes that came due on November 17, 2008. As market conditions allow, we intend to refinance our Term Loan in 2009 with new financing sources. Based on market conditions at the time such re financing occurs, we may not be able to obtain new financing under similar conditions as historically reported. Taking into account our projected share repurchases, dividends, our pending acquisition, capital expenditures, and debt service during 2009, we believe our cash flows generated from operating activities and available financing sources will provide us with an adequate source of liquidity to meet the needs of our business. Cash and Investment Securities As of December 31, 2008, we have cash and cash equivalents of $1.3 billion. Our foreign entities held $597.9 million of our cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2008. Our ongoing cash management strategies to fund our business needs could cause United States and foreign cash balances to fluctuate. Repatriating foreign funds to the United States would, in many cases, result in significant tax obligations because most of these funds have been taxed at relatively low foreign tax rates compared to our combined federal and state tax rate in the United States. We expect to use foreign funds to expand and fund our international operations and to acquire businesses internationally. On September 15, 2008, we requested redemption of our shares in the Reserve International Liquidity Fund, Ltd. (the Fund), a money market fund, totaling $298.1 million. We did not receive any portion of the redemption payment prior to December 31, 2008, and accordingly, we have reclassified the total amount due from Cash and cash equivalents to Other assets in the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2008. This surplus cash was not required or used for daily operations. At the time the redemption request was made, we were informed by the Reserve Management Company, the Funds investment advisor (the Manager), that our redemption trades would be honored at a $1.00 per share net asset value. On January 30, 2009, we received a partial distribution from the Fund of $193.6 million. We expect to receive the remaining redemption amount based on written and verbal representations from the Manager to date and our current legal position regarding our redemption priority. We expect to receive the remaining payment based on the maturities of the underlying investments in the Fund and the outcome of the litigation process. There is a risk the redemption process could be delayed and that we could receive less than the $1.00 per share net asset value, should a pro rata distribution occur. Based on net asset information provided by the Fund, our exposure related to pro rata distribution could be $12 million, excluding settlement costs incurred by the Fund. We believe that, despite this situation, we have adequate liquidity to meet our business needs through our existing cash balances, our ability to generate cash flows through operations, and the amounts available to borrow under our commercial paper program and our revolving credit facility, as described under Financing Resources below. 61 Table of Contents In many cases, we receive funds from money transfers and certain other payment services before we settle the payment of those transactions. These funds, referred to as settlement assets on our consolidated balance sheets, are not used to support our operations. However, we earn income from investing these funds. We maintain a portion of these settlement assets in highly liquid investments, classified as cash and cash equivalents within settlement assets, to fund settlement obligations. A portion of our settlement assets are held in investment securities, substantially all of which are highly rated state and municipal debt instruments, totaling $405.6 million as of December 31, 2008. Most state regulators in the United States require us to maintain specific high quality, investment grade securities and such investments are intended to secure relevant outstanding settlement obligations in accordance with applicable regulations. We do not hold financial instruments for trading purposes, and all of our investment securities are classified as available for sale and recorded at fair value. Investment securities are exposed to market risk due to changes in interest rates and credit risk. We regularly monitor credit risk and attempt to mitigate our exposure by making high quality investments. As of December 31, 2008, the significant majority of our investment securities had credit ratings of AA or better from a major credit rating agency. Our investment securities are also actively managed with respect to concentration. As of December 31, 2008, there were no investments with a single issuer or individual securities representing more than 10% of our investment securities portfolio. IPS, our third party issuer of Western Union money orders, holds the settlement assets generated from the sale of money orders, and maintains the responsibility for investing those funds. Based on the terms of the agreement with IPS, we are provided with a fixed rate of return on the funds awaiting settlement. In connection with the July 18, 2008 agreement we entered into with IPS, on October 1, 2009 we will assume the responsibility for the settlement of money orders and will have responsibility for managing the investment portfolio. On the same date, we will receive an amount of cash sufficient to satisfy all outstanding money order liabilities, which vary from day to day but approximate $800 million. In anticipation of our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, we have entered into interest rate swaps on certain of our fixed rate notes. Through a combination of the revenue generated from these investment securities and the anticipated interest expense savings resulting from these interest rate swaps, we estimate that we should be able to retain subsequent to the Transition Date, on a pre tax income basis through 2011, a comparable rate of return as we are receiving under our current agreement with IPS. Cash Flows from Operating Activities During the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, cash provided by operating activities was $1,253.9 million and $1,103.5 million, respectively. Cash flows provided by operating activities increased due to increased net income and working capital fluctuations in 2008. During the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, cash provided by operating activities was $1,103.5 million and $1,108.9 million, respectively. Cash flows provided by operating activities was consistent between 2007 and 2006, despite decreased net income. The decrease in net income was, in part, due to increased non cash charges which did not decrease cash flows. Cash flows from operating activities also benefited from favorable working capital fluctuations in 2007. 62 Table of Contents Financing Resources As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, we have the following outstanding borrowings (in millions): 2008 2007 Due in less than one year: Commercial paper $ 82.9 $ 338.2 Term loan 500.0 Floating rate notes, due November 2008 (a) 500.0 Due in greater than one year: 5.400% notes, net of discount, due 2011 (b) 1,042.8 1,002.8 5.930% notes, net of discount, due 2016 (c) 1,014.4 999.7 6.200% notes, net of discount, due 2036 497.4 497.3 Other borrowings 6.0 Total borrowings $ 3,143.5 $ 3,338.0 (a) The floating rate notes were redeemed upon maturity on November 17, 2008. (b) At December 31, 2008 and 2007, we held interest rate swaps related to the 5.400% notes due 2011 (2011 Notes) with an aggregate notional amount of $550 million and $75 million, respectively. The carrying value of the 2011 Notes has been adjusted for the impact of these hedges. During the fourth quarter of 2008, we terminated an aggregate notional amount of $195 million of interest rate swaps. We received cash of $10.7 million on the termination of these swaps, the offset of which is reflected in Borrowings and will be reclassified as a reduction to Interest expense over the life of the 2011 notes. (c) At December 31, 2008, we held an interest rate swap related to the 5.930% notes due 2016 (2016 Notes) with an aggregate notional amount of $110 million. The carrying value of the 2016 Notes has been adjusted for the impact of these hedges. Commercial Paper Pursuant to our commercial paper program, we may issue unsecured commercial paper notes in an amount not to exceed $1.5 billion outstanding at any time. Our commercial paper borrowings may have maturities of up to 397 days from date of issuance. Interest rates for borrowings are based on market rates at the time of issuance. Our commercial paper borrowings at December 31, 2008 and 2007 had a weighted average interest rate of approximately 4.1% and 5.5%, respectively, and weighted average initial terms of 27 days and 36 days, respectively. Revolving Credit Facility Our revolving credit facility expires in 2012 and includes a $1.5 billion revolving credit facility, a $250.0 million letter of credit sub facility and a $150.0 million swing line sub facility (the Revolving Credit Facility). Interest due under the Revolving Credit Facility is fixed for the term of each borrowing and is payable according to the terms of that borrowing. Generally, interest is calculated using a selected LIBOR rate plus an interest rate margin of 19 basis points. A facility fee of 6 basis points on the total facility is payable quarterly regardless of usage. The facility fee percentage is determined based on our credit rating assigned by Standard & Poors Ratings Services (S&P) and or Moodys Investor Services, Inc. (Moodys). In addition, to the extent the aggregate outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility exceed 50% of the related aggregate commitments, a utilization fee of 5 basis points as of December 31, 2008 based upon such ratings is payable to the lenders on the aggregate outstanding borrowings. As of December 31, 2008, we had no outstanding borrowings and had approximately $1.4 billion available to borrow, which is net of our current commercial paper borrowings backed by this Revolving Credit Facility. Our Revolving Credit Facility, which is diversified through a group of 15 participating institutions, is used to 63 Table of Contents provide general liquidity for us and to support our commercial paper program, which we believe enhances our short term credit rating. The largest commitment from any single financial institution within the total committed balance of $1.5 billion is approximately 20%. All banks within this group were rated at least an A or better as of December 31, 2008. If the amount available to borrow under the Revolving Credit Facility decreased, or if the Revolving Credit Facility were eliminated, the cost and availability of borrowing under the commercial paper program may be impacted. Term Loan On December 5, 2008, we entered into a senior, unsecured, 364 day term loan in an aggregate principal amount of $500 million (the Term Loan) with a syndicate of lenders. The Term Loan was used for general corporate purposes, including the repayment of commercial paper utilized to retire $500 million of floating rate notes that came due on November 17, 2008. The Term Loan allows the selection between two different interest rate calculations. For the current period, we selected an interest rate calculation using the one month LIBOR plus a 2% applicable margin (3.875% at December 31, 2008). A loan fee is also payable quarterly, beginning December 31, 2008, on the total loan (50 basis points as of December 31, 2008). The applicable margin and loan fee percentage are determined based on our credit ratings assigned by S&P and or Moodys. A duration fee is payable 90 days and 180 days after the closing date of December 5, 2008 equal to 0.25% and 0.50%, respectively, of the loan balance on each date. Notes On September 29, 2006, we issued $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of unsecured notes maturing on October 1, 2016. Interest on the 2016 Notes is payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 each year. We may redeem the 2016 Notes at any time prior to maturity at the applicable treasury rate plus 20 basis points. On November 17, 2006, we issued $2 billion aggregate principal amount of unsecured fixed and floating rate notes, comprised of $500 million aggregate principal amount of our Floating Rate Notes due 2008 (the Floating Rate Notes), $1 billion aggregate principal amount notes due 2011 and $500 million aggregate principal amount of notes due 2036 (the 2036 Notes). The Floating Rate Notes were redeemed upon maturity in November 2008. Interest with respect to the 2011 Notes and 2036 Notes is payable semiannually in arrears on May 17 and November 17 each year. We may redeem the 2011 Notes and the 2036 Notes at any time prior to maturity at the applicable treasury rate plus 15 basis points and 25 basis points, respectively. Credit Ratings and Debt Covenants The credit ratings on our debt are an important consideration in managing our financing costs and facilitating access to additional capital on favorable terms. Factors that we believe are important in assessing our credit ratings include earnings, cash flow generation, leverage, available liquidity and overall business risks. Our Revolving Credit Facility contains a facility fee and a utilization fee, and our Term Loan contains a loan fee and an application margin, all of which is determined based on our credit rating assigned by S&P and or Moodys, as further described above. We do not have any other terms within our debt agreements or other contracts that are tied to changes in our credit ratings. The table below summarizes our credit ratings as of December 31, 2008: December 31, 2008 S&P Moodys Fitch Short term rating A 2 P 2 F2 Senior unsecured A A3 A Ratings outlook Stable Stable Stable 64 Table of Contents These ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold any of our securities. Our credit ratings may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization, and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. We cannot ensure that a rating will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances so warrant. A downgrade or a negative outlook provided by the rating agencies could result in the following: Our access to the commercial paper market may be limited, and if we were downgraded below investment grade, our access to the commercial paper market would likely be eliminated; Our borrowing costs on certain existing borrowings would increase; We may be required to pay a higher interest rate in future financings; Our potential pool of investors and funding sources may decrease; Regulators may impose additional capital and other requirements on us, including imposing restrictions on the ability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends; and Our agent relationships may be adversely impacted, particularly those agents that are financial institutions or post offices. The indenture governing our notes, the Revolving Credit Facility and the Term Loan all contain covenants which, among other things, limit or restrict our ability to sell or transfer assets or enter into a merger or consolidate with another company, grant certain types of security interests, incur certain types of liens, impose restrictions on subsidiary dividends, enter into sale and leaseback transactions, or incur certain subsidiary level indebtedness. In addition, the Revolving Credit Facility and Term Loan require us to maintain a consolidated adjusted EBITDA interest coverage ratio of greater than 2:1 and 3:1, respectively, (ratio of consolidated adjusted EBITDA, defined as net income plus the sum of (a) interest expense, (b) income tax expense, (c) depreciation expense, (d) amortization expense, (e) any other non cash deductions, losses or changes made in determining net income for such period and (f) extraordinary losses or charges, and minus extraordinary gains, in each case determined in accordance with United States GAAP for such period, to interest expense) for each period comprising the four most recent consecutive fiscal quarters. Our consolidated interest coverage ratio was 10:1 as of December 31, 2008. Prepayments under the Term Loan are allowed and are required based on the cash proceeds from other indebtedness, issuance of equity, or sale of assets over $250 million. As of December 31, 2008, we are in compliance with our debt covenants. A violation of our debt covenants could impair our ability to borrow, and outstanding amounts borrowed could become due, thereby restricting our ability to use our excess cash for other purposes. Cash Priorities Capital Expenditures The total aggregate amount capitalized for contract costs, purchases of property and equipment, and purchased and developed software was $153.7 million, $192.1 million and $202.3 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Amounts capitalized for new and renewed agent contracts were $82.8 million, $80.9 million and $124.1 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Such contract costs vary depending on the terms of existing contracts as well as the timing of new and renewed contract signings. Other capital expenditures during 2008, 2007 and 2006 included purchased and developed software costs and purchases of property and equipment representing investments in our information technology infrastructure and the renovation of certain facilities. Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired In December 2008, we acquired 80% of our existing money transfer agent in Peru for a purchase price of $35.0 million. The aggregate consideration paid was $29.7 million, net of a holdback reserve of $3.0 million and cash acquired of $2.3 million. On August 1, 2008, we acquired the money transfer assets from our existing money transfer agent in Panama for a purchase price of $18.3 million, which is net of cash acquired. The consideration paid was $14.3 million, net of a holdback reserve of $4.0 million. 65 Table of Contents In December 2006, we acquired Pago F&aacute;cil for a total purchase price of $69.8 million, less cash acquired of $3.0 million. Prior to December 2006, we held a 25% interest in Pago F&aacute;cil, which was treated as an equity method investment. As a result of acquiring the additional 75% ownership, our entire investment in and results of operations of Pago F&aacute;cil have been included in the consolidated financial statements since the acquisition date. We expect that we will continue to pursue opportunities to acquire companies, particularly outside of the United States, that complement our existing businesses worldwide. Share Repurchases and Dividends Since September 2006, the Board of Directors has authorized common stock repurchases of up to $3.0 billion consisting of a $1.0 billion authorization in June 2008 (2008 Authorization), a $1.0 billion authorization in December 2007 (2007 Authorization) and a $1.0 billion authorization in September 2006. Both the 2007 Authorization and the authorization in 2006 have been fully utilized. During the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, 58.1 million, 34.7 million and 0.9 million shares, respectively, were repurchased for $1,313.9 million, $726.5 million and $19.9 million, respectively, excluding commissions, at an average cost of $22.60, $20.93 and $22.78 per share, respectively. As of December 31, 2008, $939.7 million remains available under the 2008 Authorization for purchases through December 31, 2009. During the fourth quarter of 2008, our Board of Directors declared an annual cash dividend of $0.04 per common share, representing $28.4 million, which was paid in December 2008. During the fourth quarter of 2007, our Board of Directors declared an annual cash dividend of $0.04 per common share, representing $30.0 million, which was paid in December 2007. During the fourth quarter of 2006, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.01 per common share, representing $7.7 million, which was paid in December 2006. Equity Investments In and Loans to Certain Key Agents In October 2007, we entered into agreements totaling $18.3 million to convert our non participating interest in a joint venture with our Singapore agent, Hersing Corporation Ltd., into a fully participating 49% equity interest and extended the agent relationship at more favorable commission rates to Western Union. As a result, we earn a pro rata share of profits and have enhanced voting rights. We also have the right to add additional agent relationships in Singapore under this agreement. In October 2007, we completed an agreement to acquire a 25% ownership interest in GraceKennedy Money Services Caribbean SRL (GraceKennedy), an agent in Jamaica (which also acts as our agent in several other Caribbean countries), and to extend the term of the agent relationship for $29.0 million. The aggregate consideration paid resulted in $20.2 million of identifiable intangible assets, including capitalized contract costs, which are being amortized over seven to 10 years. From time to time, we also make advances and loans to agents. Most significantly, in the first quarter 2006, we signed a six year agreement with one of our existing agents which included a four year loan of $140.0 million to the agent, of which $40.0 million, $30.0 million and $20.0 million were repaid in the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The terms of the loan agreement require that a percentage of commissions earned by the agent (64% in 2009) be withheld as repayment of the loan and the agent remains obligated to repay the loan if commissions earned are not sufficient. The remaining loan receivable balance relating to this agent as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, net of discount, was $47.0 million and $67.5 million, respectively. As opportunities arise, we expect we will continue to strategically invest in agents to further strengthen our business. Debt Service Requirements Our 2009 debt service requirements will include the $500 million Term Loan principal balance, payments on existing borrowings and any future borrowings under our commercial paper program and interest payments on all outstanding indebtedness. We have the ability to use existing financing sources, such as our Revolving Credit Facility and commercial paper program, to meet debt obligations as they arise. As market conditions allow, we intend to refinance our Term Loan with new financing sources. Based on market conditions at the time such re financing occurs, we may not be able to obtain new financings under similar conditions as historically reported. 66 Table of Contents Our ability to continue to grow the business, make acquisitions, return capital to shareholders, primarily through share repurchases, and service our debt will depend on our ability to continue to generate excess operating cash through our operating subsidiaries and to continue to receive dividends from those operating subsidiaries, our ability to obtain adequate financing and our ability to identify the appropriate acquisitions that will align with our long term strategy. Prior to Spin Off from First Data Prior to the spin off, excess cash generated from our domestic operations that was not required to meet certain regulatory requirements was periodically advanced to First Data and was reflected as a receivable from First Data. In addition, we periodically paid dividends to First Data. First Data and its subsidiaries provided a number of services on behalf of our business, including shared services, which were reimbursed periodically. Also, when we were a segment of First Data, we benefited from First Datas financing resources. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Other than facility and equipment leasing arrangements disclosed in Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements, we have no material off balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a material current or future effect on our financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. Pension Plans We have two frozen defined benefit plans that together had a recorded unfunded pension obligation of $107.1 million as of December 31, 2008. During the period from 2006 to 2008, we did not make contributions to these plans. Due to the impact of recent legislation enacted, we will not be required to contribute to these plans during 2009, but estimate we will be required to fund approximately $20 to $25 million in 2010. Our most recent measurement date for our pension plans is December 31, 2008. The calculation of the funded status and net periodic benefit income is dependent upon two primary assumptions: 1) expected long term return on plan assets; and 2) discount rate. Our expected long term return on plan assets was 7.50% for 2008 and 2007. If actual asset returns exceed the expected return on plan assets by 100 basis points, the plans funded status would improve by $3 million. The discount rate assumption for the companys benefit obligation was 6.26% and 6.02% for 2008 and 2007, respectively. A 100 basis point change in the discount rate would change the funded status by $30 million. Due to the frozen status of our plans, a 100 basis point change in these assumptions would not be significant to the net periodic benefit income or expense of our plans. 67 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our contractual obligations to third parties as of December 31, 2008 and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods (in millions). Payments Due by Period Total Less than1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years After5 Years Borrowings, including interest (a) $ 4,593.0 $ 731.3 $ 1,299.1 $ 177.2 $ 2,385.4 Purchase obligations (b) 160.2 42.3 42.7 30.2 45.0 Foreign currency forward contracts (c) 10.8 8.4 2.4 Operating leases 102.6 23.5 30.4 19.4 29.3 Unrecognized tax benefits (d) 397.0 Capitalized contract costs (e) 0.9 0.9 Estimated pension funding (f) 123.1 43.7 39.8 39.6 $ 5,387.6 $ 806.4 $ 1,418.3 $ 266.6 $ 2,499.3 (a) We have estimated our interest payments based on i) projected LIBOR rates in calculating interest on commercial paper borrowings and our Term Loan, ii) projected commercial paper borrowings outstanding throughout 2009, and the assumption that no such amounts will be outstanding beyond 2009, and iii) the assumption that no debt issuances or renewals will occur upon the maturity dates of our fixed notes and Term Loan. Our Term Loan matures in December 2009 and we plan to refinance this facility in 2009 with new financing sources. (b) Many of our contracts contain clauses that allow us to terminate the contract with notice, and with or without a termination penalty. Termination penalties are generally an amount less than the original obligation. Certain contracts also have an automatic renewal clause if we do not provide written notification of our intent to terminate the contract. Obligations under certain contracts are usage based and are, therefore, estimated in the above amounts. Historically, we have not had any significant defaults of our contractual obligations or incurred significant penalties for termination of our contractual obligations. (c) Represents the liability position of our foreign currency forward contracts as of December 31, 2008, which will fluctuate based on market conditions. (d) The timing of cash payments on unrecognized tax benefits, including accrued interest and penalties, is inherently uncertain because the ultimate amount and timing of such liabilities is affected by factors which are variable and outside our control. (e) Represents accrued and unpaid initial payments for new and renewed agent contracts as of December 31, 2008. (f) We have estimated our pension plan funding requirements, including interest, using assumptions that are consistent with current pension funding rates. The actual minimum required amounts each year will vary based on the actual discount rate and asset returns when the funding requirement is calculated. Other Commercial Commitments We had $77.0 million in outstanding letters of credit and bank guarantees at December 31, 2008, with expiration dates through 2015, certain of which contain a one year renewal option. The letters of credit and bank guarantees are primarily held in connection with lease arrangements and certain agent agreements. We expect to renew the letters of credit and bank guarantees prior to expiration in most circumstances. 68 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition is based on our financial statements that have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires that management make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported for revenues, expenses, assets, liabilities and other related disclosures. Actual results may or may not differ from these estimates. Our significant accounting policies are discussed in Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, of the notes to consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Our critical accounting policies and estimates, described below, are very important to the portrayal of our financial position and our results of operations and applying them requires our management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments. We believe that the understanding of these key accounting policies and estimates is essential in achieving more insight into our operating results and financial condition. Description Judgments and Uncertainties Effect if Actual Results Differ from Assumptions Income Taxes Reinvestment of foreign earnings Income taxes, as reported in our consolidated financial statements, represent the net amount of income taxes we expect to pay to various taxing jurisdictions in connection with our operations. We provide for income taxes based on amounts that we believe we will ultimately owe after applying the analyses and judgments required under the provisions of SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, and FIN 48. With respect to earnings in certain foreign jurisdictions, we have provided for income taxes on such earnings at a more favorable income tax rate than the combined United States federal and state income tax rates because we expect to reinvest these earnings outside of the United States indefinitely. At December 31, 2008, no provision had been made for United States federal and state income taxes on foreign earnings of approximately $1.6 billion, which are expected to be reinvested outside the United States indefinitely. Upon distribution of those earnings to the United States in the form of actual or constructive dividends, we would be subject to United States income taxes (subject to an adjustment for foreign tax credits), state income taxes and possible withholding taxes payable to various foreign countries which could result in a material impact to our financial position, results of operations and cash flows in the period such distribution occurred. Determination of the amount of unrecognized deferred United States tax liability is not practicable because of the complexities associated with its hypothetical calculation. 69 Table of Contents Description Judgments and Uncertainties Effect if Actual Results Differ from Assumptions Income tax contingencies Under the provisions of FIN 48, we recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only when it is more likely than not, based on the technical merits of the position, that the tax position will be sustained upon examination, including the resolution of any related appeals or litigation. The tax benefits recognized in the consolidated financial statements from such a position are measured as the largest benefit that has a greater than fifty percent likelihood of being realized upon ultimate resolution. We have established contingency reserves for material, known tax exposures, a substantial portion of which relate to potential tax audit adjustments with respect to our international operations, which were restructured in 2003, whereby our income from certain foreign to foreign money transfer transactions has been taxed at relatively low foreign tax rates compared to our combined federal and state tax rates in the United States. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has completed audits of the United States federal consolidated income tax returns of First Data for the years 2002 through 2004, which include our taxable results for those years. Refer to Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements for a detailed discussion of these audits. Our tax contingency reserves for our uncertain tax positions as of December 31, 2008 were $397.0 million including interest and penalties. While we believe that our reserves are adequate to cover reasonably expected tax risks, in the event that the ultimate resolution of our uncertain tax positions differ from our estimates, particularly with respect to our 2003 restructuring of our international operations, we may be exposed to material increases in income tax expense, which could materially impact our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Pursuant to the tax allocation agreement signed in connection with the spin off from First Data, we believe we have appropriately apportioned the taxes between First Data and us through 2008. If we are required to indemnify First Data for taxes incurred as a result of the spin off being taxable to First Data, it likely would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 70 Table of Contents Description Judgments and Uncertainties Effect if Actual Results Differ from Assumptions Derivative Financial Instruments We utilize derivative instruments to mitigate foreign currency and interest rate risk. We recognize all derivative instruments in other assets and other liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets at their fair value. Certain of our derivative arrangements are designated as either cash flow hedges or fair value hedges at the time of inception, and others are not designated as hedges in accordance with SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities as amended and interpreted (SFAS No. 133). Cash Flow hedges Cash flow hedges consist of foreign currency hedging of forecasted sales and hedges of anticipated fixed rate debt issuances. Derivative value changes that are captured in accumulated other comprehensive loss are reclassified to earnings in the same period or periods the hedged item affects earnings, to the extent the change in the fair value of the instrument is effective in offsetting the change in fair value of the hedged item. The portion of the change in fair value that is either considered ineffective or is excluded from the measure of effectiveness is recognized immediately in Derivative (losses)/gains, net. Fair Value hedges Fair value hedges consist of hedges of fixed rate debt, through interest rate swaps. The changes in fair value of these hedges, along with offsetting changes in fair value of the related debt instrument are recorded in interest expense. The accounting guidance related to derivative accounting is complex and contains strict documentation requirements. The details of each designated hedging relationship must be formally documented at the inception of the arrangement, including the risk management objective, hedging strategy, hedged item, specific risks being hedged, the derivative instrument, how effectiveness is being assessed and how ineffectiveness, if any, will be measured. The derivative must be highly effective in offsetting the changes in cash flows or fair value of the hedged item, and effectiveness is evaluated quarterly on a retrospective and prospective basis. If the hedge is no longer deemed effective, we discontinue applying hedge accounting to that relationship prospectively. While we expect that our derivative instruments that currently qualify for hedge accounting will continue to meet the conditions for hedge accounting, if hedges do not qualify for hedge accounting, the changes in the fair value of the derivatives used as hedges would be reflected in earnings which could have a significant impact on our reported results. As of December 31, 2008, the cumulative pre tax unrealized gains classified within accumulated other comprehensive loss from such cash flow hedges that would be reflected in earnings if our hedges were disqualified from hedge accounting was $52.0 million. As of December 31, 2008, the cumulative debt adjustments from our fair value hedges that would be reflected in earnings if such hedges were disqualified from hedge accounting was a $58.1 million gain. 71 Table of Contents Description Judgments and Uncertainties Effect if Actual Results Differ from Assumptions Capitalized Costs We capitalize certain initial payments for new and renewed agent contracts. These capitalized costs are classified in our consolidated balance sheets as other intangible assets. We evaluate such other intangible assets for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of such assets may not be recoverable. In such reviews, estimated undiscounted cash flows associated with these assets are compared with their carrying amounts to determine if a write down to fair value (normally measured by the present value technique) is required. The capitalization of initial payments for new and renewed contracts is subject to strict accounting policy criteria and requires management judgment as to the appropriate time to initiate capitalization. Our accounting policy is to limit the amount of capitalized costs for a given contract to the lesser of the estimated future cash flows from the contract or the termination fees we would receive in the event of early termination of the contract. Disruptions to an agent relationship, significant declines in cash flows or transaction volumes associated with an agent contract, or other issues significantly impacting an agents business could require us to evaluate the recoverability of our capitalized initial payments for new and renewed agent contracts prior to the annual assessment. These types of events and the resulting analyses could result in impairment charges in the future which could significantly impact our reported earnings in the periods such charges occur. We did not record any impairment charges related to other intangible assets during the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 or 2006. The net carrying value of our capitalized contract costs at December 31, 2008 was $213.2 million. Goodwill Impairment Testing We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of the goodwill may not be recoverable. Goodwill impairment is determined using a two step process. The first step is to identify if a potential impairment exists by comparing the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying amount. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of that reporting unit is not considered to have a potential impairment and the second step of the impairment test is not necessary. However, if the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step is performed to determine the implied fair value of a reporting units goodwill, by comparing the reporting units fair value to the allocated fair We calculate the fair value of each reporting unit through discounted cash flow analyses which require us to make estimates and assumptions including, among other items, revenue growth rates, operating margins, and capital expenditures based on our budgets and business plans which take into account expected regulatory, marketplace and other economic factors. The determination of the reporting units also requires judgment. We could be required to evaluate the recoverability of goodwill prior to the annual assessment if we experience disruptions to the business, unexpected significant declines in operating results, a divestiture of a significant component of our business, significant declines in market capitalization or other triggering events. In addition, as our business or the way we manage our business changes, our reporting units may also change. These types of events and the resulting analyses could result in goodwill impairment charges in the future which could materially impact our reported earnings in the periods such charges occur. 72 Table of Contents Description Judgments and Uncertainties Effect if Actual Results Differ from Assumptions values of all assets and liabilities, including any unrecognized intangible assets, as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination. If the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, an impairment is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. Reporting units are defined as an operating segment or one level below an operating segment, referred to as a component. The carrying value of goodwill as of December 31, 2008 was $1,674.2 million which represented approximately 30% of our consolidated assets. We have not recorded any goodwill impairments during the three years ended December 31, 2008. Stock Based Compensation We have stock based compensation plans, which include stock options, restricted stock awards and units, unrestricted stock awards, and other equity based awards granted to employees and other key individuals who perform services for the Company. See Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, and Note 16, Stock Compensation Plans, in the notes to the consolidated financial statements for a complete discussion of our stock based compensation programs. We currently utilize the Black Scholes option pricing model to measure the fair value of stock options granted to employees and directors. Option pricing models require us to estimate a number of key valuation inputs including expected volatility, expected dividend yield, expected term and risk free interest rate. The most subjective estimates are the expected volatility of the underlying stock and the expected term when determining the fair market value of an option granted. Beginning in 2008, we used a blend of implied volatility and peer group historical volatility. Our peer group historical volatility was determined using companies in similar industries and or market capitalization. Our implied volatility was calculated using the market prices of traded options on our common stock. Prior to 2008, our volatility was determined based entirely on the calculated peer group historical volatility since there was not sufficient trading history for our common stock or traded options. In addition, our expected option terms are based in part on stock option exercise activity when we were part of First Data. Our volatility and expected option term assumptions could be significantly different going forward than what we have estimated for historical grants which could impact our stock based compensation expense in future periods. A 10% change in our stock based compensation expense for the year ended December 31, 2008, would have affected pre tax income by approximately $2.6 million. 73 Table of Contents Description Judgments and Uncertainties Effect if Actual Results Differ from Assumptions Restructuring and Related Activities We have engaged in restructuring actions and activities associated with productivity improvement initiatives and expense reduction measures, which are accounted for under SFAS No. 112, Employers Accounting for Post Employment Benefit (SFAS No. 112), SFAS No. 146, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities (SFAS No. 146) and SFAS No. 88, Employers Accounting for Settlements and Curtailments of Defined Benefit Pension Plans and for Termination Benefits. We also evaluate impairment issues associated with restructuring activities under the provisions of SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets. Restructuring and related expenses consist of direct and incremental costs associated with restructuring and related activities, including severance, outplacement and other employee related benefits; facility closure and migration of our IT infrastructure; other expenses related to relocation of various operations to existing company facilities and third party providers, including hiring, training, relocation, travel, and professional fees. Also included in the facility closure expenses are non cash expenses related to fixed asset and leasehold improvement write offs and acceleration of depreciation and amortization. These costs represent managements best estimate, until all such amounts are paid and settled. As such, these costs require assumptions about the activities that may change over time. The decision to include a cost in the restructuring disclosure requires an assessment of whether the cost is direct and incremental to the productivity improvement initiatives and expense reduction measures. This assessment can require judgment depending on the nature of the cost. The timing of recording these costs was determined by the applicable accounting guidance under SFAS No. 112 and SFAS No. 146. This judgment significantly impacted the restructuring and related expenses recognized on a quarterly basis. However, as all of the restructuring and related expenses were incurred during 2008, the judgment required at year end in determining the appropriate accounting estimate is significantly reduced. The restructuring and related expenses are evaluated periodically to determine if an adjustment is required. Should the actual amounts differ from our estimates, the amount of the restructuring and related expenses could be materially impacted. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we incurred $82.9 million of restructuring and related expenses. As of December 31, 2008, $25.8 million remains unpaid related to restructuring and related expenses. New Accounting Pronouncements In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161, Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, an amendment of SFAS No. 133 (SFAS No. 161). SFAS No. 161 is required for financial statements issued for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after November 15, 2008 and early adoption is permitted. SFAS No. 161 requires additional disclosures about how and why we use derivatives, how derivatives and related hedged items are accounted for under SFAS No. 133, and how derivatives and related hedged items affect our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. Our derivative disclosures already incorporate many of the provisions outlined in SFAS No. 161. Accordingly, we do not expect that the adoption of this pronouncement in 2009 will have a significant impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 74 Table of Contents In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141R, Business Combinations (SFAS No. 141R). This statement establishes a framework to disclose and account for business combinations. The adoption of the requirements of SFAS No. 141R applies prospectively to business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008 and may not be early adopted. The impact of the adoption of SFAS No. 141R will depend upon the nature and terms of business combinations that we consummate on or after January 1, 2009. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements an amendment of ARB No. 51 (SFAS No. 160). The statement establishes accounting and reporting standards for a noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary. The adoption of the requirements of SFAS No. 160 is effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2008 and may not be early adopted. We do not expect the impact of adopting SFAS No. 160 to be significant on the financial position, results of operations and cash flows, as our current non controlling interests are immaterial. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK We are exposed to market risks arising from changes in market rates and prices, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. A risk management program is in place to manage these risks. Foreign Currency Exchange Rates We provide money transfer services in more than 200 countries and territories. We manage foreign exchange risk through the structure of the business and an active risk management process. We settle with the vast majority of our agents in United States dollars or euros. However, in certain circumstances, we settle in other currencies. We typically require the agent to obtain local currency to pay recipients; thus, we generally are not reliant on international currency markets to obtain and pay illiquid currencies. The foreign currency exposure that does exist is limited by the fact that the majority of transactions are paid within 24 hours after they are initiated. To mitigate this risk further, we enter into short term foreign currency forward contracts, generally with maturities from a few days up to one month, to offset foreign exchange rate fluctuations between transaction initiation and settlement. We also utilize foreign currency forward contracts, typically with terms of less than one year at inception, to offset foreign exchange rate fluctuations on certain foreign currency denominated cash positions. In certain consumer money transfer transactions involving different send and receive currencies, we generate revenue based on the difference between the exchange rate set by us to the consumer and the rate at which we or our agents are able to acquire currency, helping to provide protection against currency fluctuations. Our policy is not to speculate in foreign currencies and we promptly buy and sell foreign currencies as necessary to cover our net payables and receivables which are denominated in foreign currencies. We use longer term foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate risks associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates on revenues denominated primarily in the euro, British pound and Canadian dollar, and to a lesser degree in other European currencies and the Australian dollar. We use contracts with maturities of up to 36 months at inception to mitigate some of the risk that changes in foreign currency exchanges rates could have on forecasted revenues, with a targeted weighted average maturity of approximately one year at any point in time. We believe the use of longer term foreign currency forward contracts provides predictability of future cash flows from our international operations and allows us to better manage and mitigate risks associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Prior to September 29, 2006, we did not have any derivative instruments that were designated as hedges under the provisions of SFAS No. 133. As a result, changes in the fair market value of our outstanding derivative instruments, which are impacted primarily by fluctuations in the euro, have been recognized in derivative (losses)/gains, net in the consolidated statement of income for all derivatives entered into prior to September 29, 2006. Since these instruments were not designated to qualify for hedge accounting treatment, there was resulting volatility in our net income for the periods presented prior to September 29, 2006. For example, during the year ended December 31, 2006 we had pre tax derivative losses of $21.2 million. 75 Table of Contents At December 31, 2008 and 2007, a hypothetical uniform 10% strengthening or weakening in the value of the United States dollar relative to all other currencies in which our profits are generated would result in a decrease/increase to pretax annual income of approximately $24 million and $28 million, respectively, based on the Companys forecast of unhedged exposure to foreign currency in the following year. There are inherent limitations in this sensitivity analysis, primarily due to the assumption that foreign exchange rate movements are linear and instantaneous, that the unhedged exposure is static, and that the company would not hedge any additional exposure. As a result, the analysis is unable to reflect the potential effects of more complex market changes that could arise, which may positively or negatively affect income. Interest Rates We invest in several types of interest bearing assets, with a total value at December 31, 2008 of $1.5 billion. Approximately $1.3 billion of these assets bear interest at floating rates and are therefore sensitive to changes in interest rates. These assets primarily include money market funds and variable rate municipal securities and are included in our consolidated balance sheets within cash and cash equivalents and settlement assets. Such assets classified as cash and cash equivalents are highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less at the date of purchase and are readily convertible to cash. To the extent these assets are held in connection with money transfers and other related payment services awaiting redemption, they are classified as settlement assets. Earnings on these investments will increase and decrease with changes in the underlying short term interest rates. Substantially all of the remainder of our interest bearing assets consist of highly rated, fixed rate municipal bonds, which may include investments made from cash received from our money transfer business and other related payment services awaiting redemption classified within settlement assets in the consolidated balance sheets. As interest rates rise, the fair market value of these fixed rate interest bearing securities will decrease; conversely, a decrease to interest rates would result in an increase to the fair market values of the securities. We have classified these investments as available for sale within settlement assets in the consolidated balance sheets, and accordingly, recorded these instruments at their fair market value with the net unrealized gains and losses, net of the applicable deferred income tax effect, being added to or deducted from our total stockholders equity on our consolidated balance sheets. As of December 31, 2008, $1,242.9 million of our total $3,143.5 million in debt carries a floating interest rate or matures in such a short period that the financing is effectively a floating rate position. Of this floating rate debt, $82.9 million represents commercial paper with a weighted average interest rate of approximately 4.1% and a weighted average initial term of 27 days, $500 million represents our Term Loan due 2009 and $660.0 million is fixed rate debt that has effectively been changed to LIBOR based floating rate debt through interest rate swap agreements, with spreads ranging from 0.0025 percent below LIBOR to 1.8125 percent above LIBOR. Refer to Cash and Investment Securities above for further discussion related to the agreements with IPS. We review our overall exposure to floating and fixed rates by evaluating our net asset or liability position in each, also considering duration of the individual positions. We actively manage this mix of fixed versus floating exposure in an attempt to minimize risk, reduce costs, and optimize returns. Portfolio exposure to interest rates can be modified by changing the mix of our interest bearing assets, as well as adjusting the mix of fixed versus floating rate debt. The latter is accomplished primarily through the use of interest rate swaps and the decision regarding terms of any new debt issuances (i.e., fixed versus floating). We use interest rate swaps designated as hedges, to increase the percent of floating rate debt, subject to market conditions. Our weighted average interest rate on our borrowings, including our hedges, outstanding at December 31, 2008 was approximately 5.1%. A hypothetical uniform 100 basis point increase in interest rates would result in a decrease to pre tax income of approximately $12.4 million and $9.1 million annually based on borrowings on December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, that are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations. The same 100 basis point increase in interest rates, if applied to our cash and investment balances on December 31, 2008 and 2007 that are sensitive to 76 Table of Contents interest rate fluctuations, would result in an offsetting benefit to pre tax income of approximately $13.0 million and $16.7 million annually, respectively. There are inherent limitations in the sensitivity analysis presented, primarily due to the assumption that interest rate changes would be instantaneous. As a result, the analysis is unable to reflect the potential effects of more complex market changes that could arise, including changes in credit risk regarding our investments, which may positively or negatively affect income. In addition, the current mix of fixed versus floating rate debt and investments and the level of assets and liabilities will change over time. Credit Risk Our interest earning assets include investment securities, substantially all of which are highly rated state and municipal debt instruments, which are classified in settlement assets and accounted for as available for sale securities, and money market fund investments, which are classified in cash and cash equivalents. The significant majority of our investment securities are rated AA or better from a major credit rating agency. On September 15, 2008, we requested redemption of our shares in the Reserve International Liquidity Fund, Ltd., a money market fund, (the Fund) totaling $298.1 million. We did not receive any portion of the redemption payment prior to December 31, 2008, and accordingly, we have reclassified the total amount due from Cash and cash equivalents to Other assets in the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2008. At the time the redemption request was made, we were informed by the Funds investment advisor that our redemption trades would be honored at a $1.00 per share net asset value. On January 30, 2009, we received a partial distribution from the Fund of $193.6 million. We expect to receive the remaining redemption amount based on written and verbal representations from the Manager to date and our current legal position regarding our redemption priority. We expect to receive the remaining payment based on the maturities of the underlying investments in the Fund and the outcome of the litigation process. There is a risk the redemption process could be delayed and that we could receive less than the $1.00 per share net asset value should pro rata distribution occur. Based on the net asset information provided by the Fund, our exposure related to pro rata distribution could be $12 million, excluding settlement costs incurred by the Fund. However, based on written and verbal representations from the manager to date and our current legal position regarding our redemption priority, we believe that we are entitled to such funds and are vigorously pursuing collection of the remaining distribution. To manage our exposures to credit risk with respect to investment securities, money market fund investments and other credit risk exposures resulting from our relationships with banks and financial institutions, we regularly review investment concentrations, trading levels, credit spreads and credit ratings, and we maintain our largest relationships with globally diversified financial institutions. We also limit our investment level with respect to individual funds. We are also exposed to credit risk related to receivable balances from agents in the money transfer, walk in bill payment and money order settlement process. In addition, we are exposed to credit risk directly from consumer transactions particularly through our online services and electronic consumer to business channels, where transactions are originated through means other than cash, and therefore are subject to chargebacks, insufficient funds or other collection impediments, such as fraud. We perform a credit review before each agent signing and conduct periodic analyses when an agents balance exceeds a minimum threshold. Our losses associated with agent and consumer bad debts have been less than 1% of our annual revenue in all periods presented. 77 Table of Contents 
 
