FILE:NI/NI-8K-20050429153504.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions.
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2 (b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4 (c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
ITEM 2.02.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
On April 29, 2005, NiSource Inc. (the "Company") reported its financial results for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2005. The Company's press release, dated April 29, 2005, is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
ITEM 9.01.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(c) Exhibits
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents
EXHIBIT INDEX

 
April 29, 2005
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
NiSource Inc. (NYSE: NI) today reported income from continuing operations for the three months ended March 31, 2005, of $208.7 million, or 77 cents per share (all per-share amounts are basic), compared with income from continuing operations of $216.6 million, or 83 cents per share, for the first quarter of 2004.
MERRILLVILLE, Ind. 
The quarterly difference was primarily due to a decline in revenue resulting from NiSource pipelines renegotiating long-term contracts with their largest customers, and lower gas distribution customer usage and warmer weather than the year-ago period. Partially offsetting these declines were increased revenues from regulatory initiatives and remarketing efforts within gas transmission and storage operations. The pipeline renegotiation process is now complete and the new contracts span an average of seven years with staggered expiration dates.
Two cents of the decline in earnings per share from continuing operations was the result of an increase of 8.0 million shares in the average number of shares outstanding at March 31, 2005, compared to the year earlier, due primarily to the NiSource Stock Appreciation Income Linked Securities (SAILS) conversion in November 2004.
sm
 
NiSource Reports First-Quarter Earnings
Page 2
Net income was $206.3 million, or 76 cents per share, for the first quarter of 2005. This compares to net income of $213.5 million, or 81 cents per share, for the year-ago period.
"We have clearly made significant progress on our key initiatives for 2005 and on building a platform for long-term, sustainable growth in 2006 and beyond," said Gary L. Neale, NiSource chairman and chief executive officer. "We've stated previously that 2005 would be a base year, from which we will continue expanding the foundation to generate future growth and development, and our financial results for the first quarter are important steps in achieving NiSource's business plan for 2005."
Transformation continues
Neale announced that NiSource has selected IBM as the business process service provider with whom NiSource will move forward into a period of exclusive negotiation toward a contract to outsource up to $2 billion of business support activities over 10 years. Teams of employees from the areas under consideration for transformation have been working for three months through a disciplined process with Accenture and IBM  the two service providers that responded to an extensive request for proposals (RFP) from NiSource  to identify potential solutions and savings.
"Both Accenture and IBM have put forth outstanding efforts in responding to our RFP and developing proposals that could meet NiSource's business needs as well as our expectations for safety, reliability and delivering quality customer service. Both providers offered credible and workable solutions for our business," Neale said. "Based on our exploration and work with the providers to date, we anticipate the company will outsource a portion of our business support activities."
Neale noted that NiSource has not yet finalized which activities and processes will be outsourced or to what extent. Beginning immediately, a team from NiSource and IBM will continue to define the future relationship between the two companies. NiSource expects to make final decisions and conclude contract negotiations in June.
First-quarter results and key accomplishments demonstrate progress on business plan
Operating income was $437.7 million for the first quarter of 2005, compared with $442.8 million for the same period in 2004. Significant items that affected the respective quarters were as follows:
 
NiSource Reports First-Quarter Earnings
Page 3
Excluding the operation and maintenance expenses described above and the impact of regulatory trackers that allow for the recovery in rates of certain costs by several NiSource utility subsidiaries, operation and maintenance expenses were essentially flat when comparing the two periods. Interest expense also was relatively unchanged for the two quarters.
Neale and NiSource President Robert C. Skaggs, Jr., noted that accomplishments since the beginning of 2005 include the following:
 
NiSource Reports First-Quarter Earnings Page 4
NiSource also continued to make strides in strengthening its balance sheet and reducing debt. The company's debt ratio has improved to 55 percent, compared to 60 percent at year-end 2003. The company's short-term cash investment position at the end of the first quarter of 2005 was $553 million. In addition, there were no borrowings under the company's $1.25 billion line of credit.
Neale and Skaggs added that they were pleased with these first-quarter accomplishments and results, and that the first quarter delivered significant progress toward NiSource's business plan for 2005 and 2006.
NiSource will host an analyst conference call at 8:30 a.m. EDT on Friday, April 29, 2005, to further discuss the company's first-quarter 2005 results. All interested parties may hear the conference call live on April 29 by logging on to the NiSource Web site at .
www.nisource.com
 
NiSource Reports First-Quarter Earnings Page 5
First Quarter 2005 Operating Income
NiSource's consolidated first quarter 2005 operating income was $437.7 million compared with $442.8 million for the same period in 2004. Operating income for NiSource's business segments for the quarter ended March 31, 2005, is discussed below.
operations reported operating income of $274.9 million, a decrease of $10.1 million versus the first quarter of 2004. The decrease in operating income was primarily due to lower customer usage and warmer weather compared to the prior period.
Gas Distribution
Comparability of Gas Distribution line item operating results is impacted by regulatory trackers that allow for the recovery in rates of certain costs such as bad debt expenses. These trackers increase both operating expenses and net revenues and have essentially no impact on total operating income results. Approximately $20 million of the increase in operation and maintenance expenses and other taxes was offset by the effect of these regulatory trackers with a corresponding increase to net revenues reflecting recovery of certain costs. Additionally, the expiration of the 1999 stipulation for Columbia Gas of Ohio resulted in the recognition of additional revenue partially offset by an increase in depreciation expense.
operations reported operating income of $109.5 million, a decrease of $1.9 million versus the first quarter of 2004. Net revenues decreased $8.7 million, reflecting the impact of the restructuring of firm transportation and storage contracts that expired October 31, 2004, net of remarketing activities. Operating expenses decreased $6.8 million largely due to lower employee and administrative expenses.
Gas Transmission and Storage
operations reported operating income of $65.4 million, an increase of $6.6 million from the comparable period last year primarily from higher net revenues from the environmental cost recovery tracker and increased industrial revenues.
Electric
The segment reported an operating loss of $5.2 million in 2005, versus an operating loss of $18.0 million in the first quarter of 2004, due to decreased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy, a reversal of an accrued legal reserve in the current quarter, and lower operation and maintenance expenses. Additionally, a gain on sale of miscellaneous net assets of $0.5 million was recorded during the first quarter of 2005. The comparable period in 2004 had a loss recorded on sale of an investment of $0.7 million.
Other
reported an operating loss of $6.9 million compared to operating income of $5.6 million during the first quarter of 2004. The first quarter of 2004 was favorably impacted by an $8.7 million reduction in accrued liabilities primarily related to a legal settlement.
Corporate
Other Items
Interest expense was relatively flat as compared to the same quarter last year. Other, net was a loss of $0.5 million for the current quarter compared to $2.8 million of income for the comparable 2004 period due to costs associated with the sales of more accounts receivables compared to the previous period. Income taxes for the first quarter of 2005 were $123.4 million, a $2.3 million decrease from 2004 mainly resulting from lower pre-tax income.
 
NiSource Reports First-Quarter Earnings
Page 6
Basic average shares of common stock outstanding at March 31, 2005 were 270.3 million compared to 262.3 million at March 31, 2004. The increase was primarily due to the issuance during the fourth quarter of 2004 of 6.8 million shares of common stock upon the settlement of the forward stock purchase contracts comprising a component of NiSource's Stock Appreciation Income Linked Securities (SAILS). The increase in average shares outstanding caused a $0.02 dilution of earnings-per-share during the first quarter of 2005 and will continue to impact future periods.
sm
NiSource Inc. (NYSE: NI), based in Merrillville, Ind., is a Fortune 500 company engaged in natural gas transmission, storage and distribution, as well as electric generation, transmission and distribution. NiSource operating companies deliver energy to 3.8 million customers located within the high-demand energy corridor stretching from the Gulf Coast through the Midwest to New England. Information about NiSource and its subsidiaries is available via the Internet at .
About NiSource
www.nisource.com
This news release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Those statements include statements regarding the intent, belief or current expectations of NiSource and its management. Although NiSource believes that its expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, it can give no assurance that its goals will be achieved. Readers are cautioned that the forward-looking statements in this presentation are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks and uncertainties, and that actual results could differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: weather; fluctuations in supply and demand for energy commodities; growth opportunities for NiSource's businesses; increased competition in deregulated energy markets; the success of regulatory and commercial initiatives; dealings with third parties over whom NiSource has no control; the scope, timing and effectiveness of any outsourcing initiative; actual operating experience of NiSource assets; the regulatory process; regulatory and legislative changes; changes in general economic, capital and commodity market conditions; and counter-party credit risk.
Forward-Looking Statements
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


