FILE:NI/NI-8K-20050624162135.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
ITEM 1.01.
ENTRY INTO A MATERIAL DEFINITIVE AGREEMENT
On June 20, 2005, NiSource Corporate Services Company ("NCSC"), a direct subsidiary of NiSource Inc. (the "Company"), entered into an Agreement For Business Process And Support Services ("Outsourcing Agreement") with International Business Machines Corporation ("IBM"). Under the Outsourcing Agreement, IBM has agreed to provide certain services to the Company and its subsidiaries, which services are currently performed by NCSC.
As part of the Outsourcing Agreement, IBM will operate a broad range of business support functions for NCSC, including processes within the human resources, finance and accounting, supply chain (procurement), customer contact, meter-to-cash (billing and collections) and information technology areas. The Outsourcing Agreement has an initial term of ten years and NCSC has the right to renew it for up to three additional one-year periods. As a result of the Outsourcing Agreement, 572 employees of the Company and its subsidiaries are expected to become employees of IBM or its subcontractors. Another 445 positions will be eliminated by the Company and its subsidiaries by Dec. 31, 2006, throughout the regions in which it operates as work is moved to IBM.
NCSC will pay IBM for the services under a combination of fixed and variable charges, with the variable charges fluctuating based on the Company's actual need for such services. Based on the currently projected usage of these services, the Company expects to pay $1.6 billion to IBM in service fees and project costs over the initial ten-year term.
The Company expects that over the initial ten-year term the Outsourcing Agreement will deliver upwards of $530 million in gross operating and capital cost savings across the Company's 15 primary operating subsidiaries, as well as provide technology advances and enhanced service capabilities. However, the net savings to the Company from the Outsourcing Agreement will be impacted by certain costs it will incur to obtain these gross savings. These costs fall into three categories. First, the Company will incur severance related costs associated with the elimination of the positions described above of approximately $35 million. In addition, NiSource will record approximately $21 million in one-time, non-cash pension expense related to severed employees and employees who accept positions with IBM. Second, the Company expects to pay approximately $35 million in transition costs during 2005 and 2006 to transfer these functional areas to IBM. Third, the Company expects to incur $50 million in governance costs over the 10-year life of the Outsourcing Agreement. Attached as Exhibit 99.2 to this report is a more detailed projection of the potential savings to NiSource under the Outsourcing Agreement.
To protect the Company's expectations regarding IBM's performance, the Outsourcing Agreement has performance standards and minimum services levels that IBM must meet or exceed. If IBM fails to meet a given performance standard, NiSource would, in certain circumstances, receive a credit against the charges otherwise due.
To assure that the charges under the Outsourcing Agreement do not become significantly higher than the market rate for such services, the Company has the right to periodically perform benchmark studies to determine whether IBM's price and performance are consistent with the then current market. The Company has the right to conduct such benchmark studies, at its cost, beginning in the fourth year of the Outsourcing Agreement.
Under the Outsourcing Agreement, the Company retains the right to terminate the Agreement both for cause and for its convenience. However, upon any termination of the Agreement by the Company for any reason (other than for material breach by IBM), the Company will be required to pay a termination charge to IBM, which charge may be material.
The Company will file a copy of the Outsourcing Agreement as an exhibit to its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ending on June 30, 2005.
 
ITEM 9.01.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX

 
 
June 21, 2005
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Dennis Senchak, Vice President, Investor Relations (219) 647-6085, senchak@nisource.com Randy Hulen, Director, Investor Relations (219) 647-5688, rghulen@nisource.com Rae Kozlowski, Manager, Investor Relations (219) 647-6089, ekozlowski@nisource.com
NiSource Investors
MERRILLVILLE, IN and ARMONK, NY  NiSource Inc. (NYSE: NI) and IBM (NYSE: IBM) today announced that they have reached a definitive agreement for IBM to provide a broad range of business transformation and outsourcing services to NiSource. IBM will begin service delivery on July 1, 2005.
The 10-year agreement is estimated to be worth $1.6 billion to IBM in service fees and project costs and is expected to deliver upwards of $530 million in operating and capital cost savings across NiSource's 15 primary operating subsidiaries over the course of the contract, as well as provide technology advances and enhanced service capabilities.
NiSource's cost to achieve will include $35 million in one-time severance expenses and $35 million in transition costs. In addition, NiSource expects to incur approximately $50 million in governance costs over the 10-year life of the contract. Charges for NiSource's cost to achieve are expected to be reported largely in 2005 and, to a lesser extent, in 2006. In addition, NiSource will report a $21 million one-time, non-cash pension expense related to severed employees and employees who accept positions with IBM.
 
NiSource and IBM sign agreement to transform key business process and technology functions Page 2
"This agreement will enable NiSource to transform its business to further focus on core strengths of providing safe, reliable utility and pipeline services to our customers," said Gary L. Neale, NiSource chairman and chief executive officer. "In addition, this agreement will enable us to access new technology and service capabilities for our company and state-of-the-art service for our customers, and re-deploy capital toward growth opportunities. Working with IBM will help us achieve our goals of delivering basic support activities while freeing us to focus on our strategic business priorities."
"IBM will work with NiSource to apply business insight, technology expertise and global delivery capabilities to optimize business performance and create long-term economic benefits," said Maureen Sweeny, vice president of Business Transformation Outsourcing at IBM. "In this manner, this relationship is a strong example of the type of new partnerships and on-demand business value IBM is targeting in the marketplace for Business Performance Transformation Services."
As part of this agreement, IBM will operate a broad range of business support functions for NiSource, including processes within the human resources, finance and accounting, supply chain (procurement), customer contact, meter-to-cash (billing and collections) and information technology areas. The agreement also includes a broad array of transformational consulting services and emerging technology expertise, as well as a unique approach to governance between the two companies to rapidly drive value across a multi-process business transformation outsourcing solution. In addition, NiSource and IBM are committed to continuous improvement of levels of customer service, business efficiency and functional integration at NiSource.
Under terms of the agreement, 572 employees of NiSource are expected to become employees of IBM or its subcontractors. Another 445 positions will be eliminated by NiSource by Dec. 31, 2006, throughout the regions in which it operates as work is moved to IBM.
This long-term relationship with IBM is a key component of NiSource's four-part plan to establish a platform for long-term, sustainable growth. NiSource is focused in 2005 on pursuing growth opportunities in its extensive natural gas pipeline and storage system, implementing regulatory and commercial initiatives in its distribution business, continuing to strengthen its balance sheet through prudent financial management, and identifying innovative ways to manage overall costs and free up additional capital for investment in its core gas and electric operations.
 
NiSource and IBM sign agreement to transform key business process and technology functions Page 3
About NiSource
NiSource Inc. (NYSE: NI), based in Merrillville, Ind., is a Fortune 500 company engaged in natural gas transmission, storage and distribution, as well as electric generation, transmission and distribution. NiSource operating companies deliver energy to 3.7 million customers located within the high-demand energy corridor stretching from the Gulf Coast through the Midwest to New England. Information about NiSource and its subsidiaries is available via the Internet at www.nisource.com.
About IBM Business Consulting Services
With consultants and professional staff in more than 160 countries globally, IBM Business Consulting Services is the world's largest consulting services organization. IBM Business Consulting Services provides clients with business transformation and industry expertise, and the ability to translate that expertise into integrated, responsive, on-demand business solutions and services that deliver bottom-line business value. Over the past several years, IBM Business Consulting Services has developed industry-leading transformation consulting skills and delivery capabilities in key areas, including Human Resources, Financial Management, Customer Relationship Management and Procurement. For more information, visit www.ibm.com.
This news release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Those statements include statements regarding the intent, belief or current expectations of NiSource Inc. and IBM and their respective managements. Although NiSource and IBM believe that their expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, they can give no assurance that their goals will be achieved. Readers are cautioned that the forward-looking statements in this press release are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks and uncertainties, and that actual results could differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause NiSource's actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: weather; fluctuations in supply and demand for energy commodities; growth opportunities for NiSource's businesses; increased competition in deregulated energy markets; the success of regulatory and commercial initiatives; dealings with third parties over whom NiSource has no control; the scope, timing and effectiveness of NiSource's execution under the outsourcing agreement; actual operating experience of NiSource assets; the regulatory process; regulatory and legislative changes; changes in general economic, capital and commodity market conditions; and counter-party credit risk. Except for the historical information and discussions contained herein about IBM, statements contained in this release may constitute forward-looking statements about IBM within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially, as discussed in the company's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
Forward-Looking Statements

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
$ expressed in MM
Projected NiSource Base Costs (w/o Outsourcing)
 


