FILE:NI/NI-8K-20051104091905.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions.
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
On November 4, 2005, NiSource Inc. (the "Company") reported its financial results for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2005. The Company's press release, dated November 4, 2005, is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
ITEM 9.01.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(c) Exhibits
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
November 4, 2005
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
NiSource Inc. (NYSE: NI) today announced net operating earnings, a non-GAAP financial measure which NiSource defines as income from continuing operations determined in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) adjusted for certain items, were $16.5 million, or 6 cents per share (all per-share amounts are basic), for the three months ended Sept. 30, 2005, compared with $26.9 million, or 10 cents per share, for the comparable period a year earlier.
MERRILLVILLE, Ind. 
For the nine months ended Sept. 30, 2005, NiSource announced net operating earnings (non-GAAP) were $251.4 million, or 93 cents per share, compared with $268.5 million, or $1.03 per share, for the 2004 period.
The company has faced several issues throughout 2005 that are expected to continue for the remainder of the year and could extend into 2006. These issues include: lower customer natural gas usage; continued losses from Whiting Clean Energy; and unrecoverable costs associated with the Midwest Independent System Operator (MISO) in NiSource's Indiana electric market.
These factors are the primary drivers of NiSource's decision to revise its 2005 earnings expectations from our original estimate of $1.47 to $1.53 to a range of $1.32 to $1.37 per share in net operating earnings. See Schedule 3 for a description of the various business drivers that have led us to revise our guidance. Schedule 3 also reconciles our guidance for net operating earnings (non-GAAP) to our revised guidance for income from continuing operations per share (GAAP) of 88 cents to 93 cents per share. Primary impacts to the projected change in GAAP earnings per share are restructuring charges related to the outsourcing initiative and charges related to the refinancing of Columbia Energy Group (CEG) debt.
 
NiSource reports third-quarter results Page 2
Net operating earnings (non-GAAP)
NiSource is providing net operating earnings and operating earnings, which are both non-GAAP measures, because management believes these measures better represent the fundamental earnings strength of the company. Operating earnings are operating income determined in accordance with GAAP adjusted for certain items. NiSource uses net operating earnings and operating earnings internally for budgeting and reporting to the board of directors. Adjustments reflected in these measures are primarily weather, restructuring charges associated with the outsourcing contract with IBM, and impairment charges. See Schedule 1 and Schedule 2 of this news release for the reconciliations of net operating earnings and operating earnings, respectively, to GAAP.
The decrease in net operating earnings for the quarter compared with the third quarter of 2004 was the result of higher depreciation, primarily from the expiration of the 1999 regulatory stipulation for Columbia Gas of Ohio (COH); lower net revenues in the gas transmission and storage business due primarily to the renegotiation of contracts in 2004 with NiSource pipelines' major customers, net of remarketing activities; and incremental costs associated with MISO. These impacts were partially offset by improved results from Whiting Clean Energy.
The decrease in the nine-month net operating earnings versus 2004 was the result of lower net revenues in the gas transmission and storage business due primarily to the renegotiation of contracts with major pipeline customers, net of remarketing activities; incremental MISO costs; and higher depreciation resulting primarily from the expiration of the 1999 COH regulatory stipulation, partially offset by improved results from Whiting Clean Energy.
Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations (GAAP)
NiSource reported a loss from continuing operations for the three months ended Sept. 30, 2005, of $5.8 million, or 2 cents per share (all per-share amounts are basic), compared with income from continuing operations of $21.7 million, or 8 cents per share, for the same period in 2004.
Net loss for the third quarter of 2005 was $6.8 million, or 3 cents per share, compared with net income of $28.8 million, or 11 cents per share, during the third quarter of 2004. Operating income for the third quarter was $93.2 million in 2005, compared with $128.1 million in 2004.
For the nine months ended Sept. 30, 2005, NiSource reported income from continuing operations of $210.8 million, or 78 cents per share, compared with $274.0 million, or $1.04 per share, for the same period of 2004. Net income for the first nine months of 2005 was $238.5 million, or 88 cents per share, compared with $276.9 million, or $1.06 per share, for the same period a year ago.
Earnings per share were diluted by 3 cents for the nine-month period in 2005 primarily due to the issuance during the fourth quarter of 2004 of 6.8 million shares of common stock upon the settlement of the forward stock purchase contracts comprising a component of NiSource's Stock Appreciation Income Linked Securities (SAILS).
sm
Progress on business plan
"While 2005 was expected to be a challenging year, it is notable that during the third quarter we stayed on track with our strategy to build a platform for long-term, sustainable growth," said NiSource President and Chief Executive Officer Robert C. Skaggs, Jr.
 
NiSource reports third-quarter results Page 3
"We remain focused on four key elements: expansion and commercial growth in our pipeline and storage business; regulatory and commercial initiatives; management of our balance sheet; and expense management."
Specific highlights include:
Meanwhile, results for NiSource's Whiting Clean Energy have improved this year but are still approximately $12 million, or 4 cents in net operating earnings per share, lower than what NiSource was anticipating when it issued its original guidance, due to delays in the regulatory process. The start-up of MISO has resulted in costs to NiSource of approximately $8 million, or 3 cents per share in net operating earnings, that are not recoverable under current regulatory agreements due to expire in mid-2006.
Natural gas usage by customers of NiSource's local distribution companies is anticipated to be approximately $14 million, or 5 cents in net operating earnings per share, lower than what NiSource was anticipating when it issued its original guidance. High gas costs in the wholesale market, which are passed through without mark-up to utility customers, could affect customers' demand for natural gas during the fourth quarter of 2005 and throughout the winter.
Skaggs noted that the unusually active hurricane season and resulting natural gas price volatility have created an unprecedented dynamic for the energy industry.
"This has had a significant impact on natural gas prices that will likely affect natural gas usage, limit the opportunities for commercial activities for the foreseeable future, and may impact the potential for innovative regulatory initiatives," Skaggs said. "We are now dealing with these issues, which we expect to continue for the remainder of the year and extend into 2006.
 
NiSource reports third-quarter results Page 4
"I am pleased to report that our pipelines did not suffer severe damage from Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, and we do not anticipate the cost of repairing our facilities to result in a material impact on 2005 results, he added. "We anticipate having substantially all of our facilities able to accept gas by Nov. 15, so the impact for the remainder of the year and for 2006 will depend primarily on when Gulf Coast supplies, processing facilities, pipelines and throughput return to pre-hurricane levels.
"Although we're facing significant near-term challenges in a volatile market environment, we remain committed to ongoing execution of our comprehensive, four-part business plan," Skaggs said.
NiSource will host an analyst conference call at 10 a.m. EST on Friday, Nov. 4, 2005, to further discuss the company's third-quarter 2005 results. All interested parties may hear the conference call live on Nov. 4 by logging on to the NiSource Web site at .
www.nisource.com
 
NiSource reports third-quarter results Page 5
Third Quarter 2005 Operating Earnings  Segment Results (Non-GAAP)
NiSource's consolidated third quarter 2005 operating earnings (Non-GAAP) are $128.7 million compared to $136.3 million for the same period in 2004. Refer to Schedule 2 for the items included in 2005 and 2004 GAAP operating income but excluded from operating earnings.
The decrease in operating earnings for the quarter was the result of higher depreciation that resulted primarily from the expiration of the 1999 regulatory stipulation for COH, lower Gas Transmission and Storage Operations net revenues due primarily to pipeline re-contracting, net of remarketing activities, and MISO costs, partially offset by decreased losses from Whiting Clean Energy.
Operating earnings for NiSource's business segments for the quarter ended Sept. 30, 2005 is discussed below.
reported an operating earnings loss of $44.0 million versus an operating earnings loss of $31.1 million in the third quarter of 2004. The increase in the operating earnings loss was due to higher depreciation of $7.5 million that mainly resulted from the expiration of the 1999 COH regulatory stipulation and higher employee and administrative expenses of $3.3 million.
Gas Distribution Operations
reported operating earnings of $69.8 million, which is essentially flat with the prior period. Lower net revenues of $5.4 million due primarily to pipeline re-contracting, net of remarketing activities, were offset by lower operation and maintenance expenses primarily the result of decreased pension expense.
Gas Transmission and Storage Operations
reported operating earnings of $103.6 million, a decrease of $3.7 million from the comparable period last year. The decrease in operating earnings was the result of MISO costs of $6.1 million partially offset by increased sales to commercial and residential customers due to both usage and customer growth.
Electric Operations
reported operating earnings of $2.8 million in 2005, versus an operating earnings loss of $5.8 million in the third quarter of 2004. The $8.6 million increase in operating earnings resulted from decreased losses of $8.7 million associated with Whiting Clean Energy.
Other Operations
reported an operating earnings loss of $3.5 million, which is essentially flat with the comparable period last year.
Corporate
Interest expense increased by $7.6 million due to the impact of higher short-term interest rates on variable rate debt and higher average long-term debt balances due to the prefunding of November 2005 debt maturities. Other, net increased $2.3 million, primarily the result of higher interest income.
Other Items
 
NiSource reports third-quarter results Page 6
Nine-Month Period 2005 Operating Earnings  Segment Results (Non-GAAP)
Year-to-date operating earnings (Non-GAAP) are $708.5 million compared to $720.3 million for the same period in 2004. Refer to Schedule 2 for the items included in 2005 and 2004 GAAP operating income but excluded from operating earnings.
The decrease in operating earnings was the result of lower Gas Transmission and Storage Operations net revenues due primarily to pipeline re-contracting, net of remarketing activities, incremental MISO costs, higher depreciation that resulted primarily from the expiration of the 1999 COH regulatory stipulation, partially offset by decreased losses from Whiting Clean Energy.
Operating earnings for NiSource's business segments for the nine months ended Sept. 30, 2005, is discussed below.
operating earnings was $247.5 million, a decrease of $19.5 million versus the first nine months of 2004. The decrease in operating earnings was primarily due to higher depreciation of $23.3 million, that mainly resulted from the expiration of the 1999 COH regulatory stipulation, and decreased customer usage, net of customer increases, that impacted sales by approximately $10 million. These impacts are partially offset by increased net revenues of approximately $14 million from regulatory initiatives including the stipulation for Columbia Gas of Ohio.
Gas Distribution Operations'
Comparability of Gas Distribution Operations line item operating results was impacted by regulatory trackers that allow for the recovery in rates of certain costs such as bad debt expenses. These trackers increase both operating expenses and net revenues and have essentially no impact on total operating income results. Approximately $27.2 million of the increase in operation and maintenance expenses and other taxes was offset by the effect of the regulatory trackers with a corresponding increase to net revenues reflecting recovery of certain costs.
reported operating earnings of $250.3 million, a $10.1 million decrease from the comparable 2004 period. The decrease was primarily due to approximately $20 million of lower net operating revenues (excluding trackers) primarily from pipeline re-contracting, net of remarketing activities, partially offset by $10.3 million lower employee and administrative expenses primarily from reduced pension and other benefit expenses.
Gas Transmission and Storage Operations
reported operating earnings of $234.7 million, a decrease of $1.5 million from the comparable period last year. Favorable net revenue impacts from environmental trackers of $7.9 million and increased sales to residential and commercial customers due to both usage and customer growth were more than offset by MISO costs of $10.6 million, higher electric production expenses of $6.9 million, revenue credits of $4.7 million and $2.4 million of higher depreciation expense.
Electric Operations
 
NiSource reports third-quarter earnings Page 7
reported an operating earnings loss of $13.9 million in the first nine months of 2005, versus an operating earnings loss of $30.3 million in the first nine months of 2004. The decreased operating earnings loss was mainly due to decreased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy.
Other Operations
reported an operating earnings loss of $10.1 compared to an operating earnings loss of $13.0 million during the first nine months of 2004. The decreased operating earnings loss this year resulted from lower employee and administrative expenses.
Corporate
Interest expense was $312.8 million for the first nine months of 2005 compared to $300.8 million for the first nine months of last year. This increase was due to the impact of higher short-term interest rates on variable rate debt and higher average long-term debt balances due to the prefunding of November 2005 debt maturities. Other, net increased $2.5 million primarily the result of higher interest income.
Other Items
Basic average shares of common stock outstanding at Sept. 30, 2005 were 271.1 million compared to 262.5 million at Sept. 30, 2004. The increase was primarily due to the issuance during the fourth quarter of 2004 of 6.8 million shares of common stock upon the settlement of the forward stock purchase contracts comprising a component of NiSource's Stock Appreciation Income Linked Securities (SAILS). The increase in average shares outstanding caused a $0.03 dilution of earnings-per-share during the first nine months of 2005.
sm
NiSource Inc. (NYSE: NI), based in Merrillville, Ind., is a Fortune 500 company engaged in natural gas transmission, storage and distribution, as well as electric generation, transmission and distribution. NiSource operating companies deliver energy to 3.7 million customers located within the high-demand energy corridor stretching from the Gulf Coast through the Midwest to New England. Information about NiSource and its subsidiaries is available via the Internet at .
About NiSource
www.nisource.com
This news release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Those statements include statements regarding the intent, belief or current expectations of NiSource and its management. Although NiSource believes that its expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, it can give no assurance that its goals will be achieved. Readers are cautioned that the forward-looking statements in this presentation are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks and uncertainties, and that actual results could differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: weather; fluctuations in supply and demand for energy commodities; growth opportunities for NiSource's businesses; increased competition in deregulated energy markets; the success of regulatory and commercial initiatives; dealings with third parties over whom NiSource has no control; the effectiveness of NiSource's outsourcing initiative; actual operating experience of NiSource assets; the regulatory process; regulatory and legislative changes; changes in general economic, capital and commodity market conditions; and counter-party credit risk.
Forward-Looking Statements
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


