FILE:NI/NI-8K-20050405162240.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
In connection with Samuel W. Miller's resignation (discussed in Item 5.02 of this Current Report), NiSource Inc. (the "Company") entered into a letter agreement with Mr. Miller pursuant to which Mr. Miller resigned as an officer of the Company effective March 31, 2005, and the Company agreed to pay Mr. Miller certain separation payments. A copy of the agreement is attached to this Current Report as exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated by reference into this Item 1.01.
On March 31, 2005, Samuel W. Miller, the Company's Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, resigned as an officer of the Company.
(c) Exhibits
Table of Contents
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents
EXHIBIT INDEX

 
Exhibit 10.1
March 29, 2005
NOTICE TO EMPLOYEE: Samuel W. Miller
     This Letter Agreement includes a release under the Federal Older Workers Benefit Protection Act. You are advised to consult an attorney prior to signing this Letter Agreement and you have 21 days in which to consider doing so. Moreover, upon signing this Letter Agreement, you have seven (7) days thereafter to revoke it. In order to exercise your right to revoke the Letter Agreement during the seven (7) day revocation period, you must provide written notice of revocation to LaNette Zimmerman.
Very truly yours,
/s/ LaNette Zimmerman LaNette Zimmerman EVP of Human Resources and Communications
 
March 29, 2005
Mr. Samuel W. Miller 3605 Rural Fox Drive St. Charles, Illinois 60174
Dear Sam:
This Letter Agreement confirms our decision concerning your employment status. As we discussed, your employment with NiSource Corporate Services Company will be terminated. If you sign this Letter Agreement, it will constitute the mutual agreement between you and NiSource Corporate Services Company ("the Company" which, as used herein, shall mean NiSource Inc. or any of its affiliates or subsidiaries, including NiSource Corporate Services Company; except in Exhibit 1, references to "NiSource" shall mean exclusively NiSource Inc.) regarding the terms of your resignation from employment.
 
 
 
 
 
Very truly yours,
/s/ LaNette Zimmerman LaNette Zimmerman EVP of Human Resources and Communications
Accepted:
 
Attn: This General Release Should Not Be Signed Prior to Employee's Separation Date, September 2, 2005.
     In consideration of the payments and benefits set forth in the Letter Agreement attached hereto, the sufficiency of which consideration is hereby acknowledged, I, for myself and my heirs, executors and administrators, do hereby fully, finally and unconditionally release and forever discharge NiSource Inc., and all of its parent, sister and subsidiary corporations and all of its affiliates, as well as all of its former and current directors, officers, employees, stockholders, attorneys, agents, predecessors, successors, representatives and assigns, in their personal and corporate capacities (hereinafter "Released Parties"), from any and all liabilities, actions, causes of action, claims, rights, obligations, charges, damages, costs, attorneys' fees, suits, re-employment rights and demands of any and every kind, nature, and character, known and unknown, liquidated or unliquidated, absolute or contingent, in law or in equity, enforceable under and local, state, or federal statute or ordinance, or under the common laws of the United States, including but not limited to, all claims relating to and the specific statutes referred to in footnote 1 , any and all claims relative to any agreement relating to my employment with the Released Parties, including any claims under the doctrines of defamation, libel, slander, invasion of privacy, intentional infliction of emotional distress, interference with contractual relations, retaliatory discharge, whistleblowing, breach of contract, wrongful discharge, breach of implied contract or implied covenant of good faith or fair dealing, and any other statute, authority or law, providing a cause of action relating to my employment with or the termination of my employment with the Released Parties. I also agree not to sue the Released Parties with respect to the claims covered by the foregoing General Release.
from the beginning of time to the date of this General Release,
the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, as amended, 29 U.S.C. 621
et seq
.
1
     I acknowledge that prior to entering into the Letter Agreement to which this General Release is attached and made a part of, I was advised in writing to consult with an attorney prior to executing the Letter Agreement and that I was given a period of at least twenty-one (21) days within which to consider the Letter Agreement, including the terms of this General Release. Moreover, I was advised in writing of my right, for seven days following my execution of the Letter Agreement, to revoke the Letter Agreement
 
and thereby decline to execute this General Release. I expressly represent that I did not revoke the Letter Agreement. Accordingly, I acknowledge and agree that the Letter Agreement is effective and enforceable.
     I hereby represent that I have read and understand the terms of this General Release and represent that my execution of this General Release constitutes my knowing and voluntary act, made without coercion or intimidation. I understand that this General Release in applicable to any claims arising prior to the date of this General Release and is binding upon me, my heirs, executors and assigns.


