FILE:NI/NI-8K-20050826170620.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
ITEM 1.01.
ENTRY INTO A MATERIAL DEFINITIVE AGREEMENT
At a meeting of the Officer Nomination and Compensation Committee (the "ON&C Committee") of the NiSource Inc. (the "Company") board of directors on August 22, 2005 (the "ON&C Meeting"), the ON&C Committee approved the Second Amendment to the Company's Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (the "SERP") which transfers the right to amend certain provisions of the SERP from the Chairman of the Company's board of directors to the Company's Chief Executive Officer. Also at the ON&C Meeting, the ON&C Committee approved (i) the Second Amendment to the Savings Restoration Plan for NiSource Inc. and Affiliates (the "Savings Restoration Plan") and (ii) the Sixth Amendment to the NiSource Retirement Savings Plan (the "Retirement Savings Plan"), which, in each case, provide for additional matching contributions for certain executives and employees whose matching contributions were not matched up to the maximum level provided for under the Savings Restoration Plan or Retirement Savings Plan, as applicable, due to uneven employee contributions during 2003 and 2004. The ON&C Committee also provided for participation in the Savings Restoration Plan by certain employees who were not provided coverage when they became eligible to participate in the Plan during 2004, retroactive to the date such employees became eligible.
A copy of the Second Amendment to the Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, the Second Amendment to the Savings Restoration Plan for NiSource Inc. and Affiliates and the Sixth Amendment to the NiSource Retirement Savings Plan are attached to this Current Report as exhibits 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3, respectively, and are incorporated by reference into this Item 1.01.
S. LaNette Zimmerman will retire from the Company effective December 31, 2005, and in connection therewith, Ms. Zimmerman will resign her position as Executive Vice President, Human Resources and Communication effective as of October 5, 2005. In connection with Ms. Zimmerman's retirement, the ON&C Committee of the board of directors approved a letter agreement with Ms. Zimmerman at the meeting of the ON&C Committee on August 22, 2005. A copy of the letter agreement is attached to this Current Report as exhibit 10.4 and is incorporated by reference into this Item 1.01.
On August 24, 2005, John W. Thompson, a director of the Company, notified the Company of his decision to resign from the board of directors of the Company.
ITEM 9.01.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(c) Exhibits
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX

 
Exhibit 10.1
     , NiSource Inc. (the "Company") maintains the NiSource Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, as amended and restated effective January 1, 2004 and as further amended effective January 28, 2005 (the "Plan"); and
WHEREAS
     , pursuant to Section 7.5 of the Plan, the Company deems it desirable to amend the Plan as described below.
WHEREAS
     , the second sentence of Section 7.5 is hereby amended, effective July 1, 2005, to read as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE
"In addition, the Chief Executive Officer of the Company may amend any provision of the Plan, except for Articles III, IV and V which may only be amended by the Committee."
     the Company has caused this Second Amendment to be executed on its behalf, by its officer duly authorized, this 26 day of August, 2005.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
th

 
Exhibit 10.2
     , NiSource Inc. (the "Company") maintains the Savings Restoration Plan for NiSource Inc. and Affiliates, as amended and restated effective January 1, 2004 and as further amended effective January 1, 2005(the "Plan"); and
WHEREAS
     , pursuant to Article VIII of the Plan, the Company deems it desirable to amend the Plan as described below.
WHEREAS
     , a new Section 4.3 is hereby added, effective January 1, 2005, and the remaining Sections of Article IV are renumbered accordingly, as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE
"4.3 . Any Participant who (1) during the 2003 and/or 2004 Plan Years had a Matching Contribution allocated to his Matching Contribution Account under the Basic Plan that was less than the maximum Matching Contribution available under the Basic Plan, (2) authorized After-tax Contributions and/or Pre-tax Contributions under the Basic Plan equal to at least 6% of his Compensation for such Plan Year(s) and (3) participated in the Account Balance Option of the NiSource Inc. and Northern Indiana Public Service Company Pension Plan, the Retirement Plan of Columbia Energy Group Companies, the NiSource Inc. Subsidiary Pension Plan or the Bay State Gas Company Pension Plan, as applicable, shall be eligible for an additional Employer credit hereunder. The additional Employer credit shall be calculated as the difference between (i) the Matching Contributions that would have been allocated to the Participant's Matching Contribution Account under the Basic Plan during the 2003 and/or 2004 Plan Year(s) if his total After-tax Contributions, if any, and Pre-tax Contributions under the Basic Plan for such Plan Year(s) had been contributed evenly over each pay period throughout the Plan Year(s) and (ii) the Matching Contribution actually allocated to the Participant's Matching Contribution Account under the Basic Plan for such Plan Year(s).
Special Employer Credits
The additional Employer credit, plus interest (calculated using a rate equal to 4.5% from January 1, 2005 to the date the additional Employer credit is credited to his Supplemental Savings Account as provided herein) shall be credited to the Participant's Supplemental Savings Account in accordance with Section 4.1. The additional Employer credit shall be credited to his Supplemental Savings Account as soon as administratively practicable after September 1, 2005, but in any event no later than December 31, 2005.
 
Except where inconsistent with this Section 4.3, the additional Employer credit shall be subject to all provisions of the Plan applicable to Employer credits."
     the Company has caused this Second Amendment to be executed on its behalf, by its officer duly authorized, this 26th day of August, 2005.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,

 
Exhibit 10.3
     NiSource Inc. (the "Company") maintains the NiSource Inc. Retirement Savings Plan, as amended and restated effective January 1, 2002 and as further amended (the "Plan"); and
WHEREAS,
     the Company has reserved the right, pursuant to Sections 12.1 of the Plan, to amend the Plan and now deems it appropriate to do so in order to provide for additional matching contributions to certain Plan participants.
WHEREAS,
     the Plan is hereby amended as follows, effective January 1, 2005:
NOW, THEREFORE,
1. By amending Section 2.19 to read as follows:
"2.19 . Contributions made to the Trust by an Employer on behalf of eligible Participants as described under Section 4.3, Schedule A and Schedule D, and allocated to a Participant's "Matching Contribution Account" in accordance with Section 6.2." 2. By amending Section 4.1 by adding the following to the end thereof:
Matching Contributions
"Notwithstanding the foregoing, each Employer shall make an additional Matching Contribution to the Trust as provided in Schedule D." 3. By adding Schedule D to read as follows:
Subject to the limitations of Article V, an Employer shall make an additional Matching Contribution to the Trust for eligible Participants, as provided herein.
January 1, 2003  December 31, 2004
Any Participant who (1) was not a Highly Compensated Employee at any time during the 2003 and/or 2004 Plan Years, (2) during the 2003 and/or 2004 Plan Years had a Matching Contribution allocated to his Matching Contribution Account that was less than the maximum Matching Contribution available under Schedule A, (3) authorized After-tax Contributions and/or Pre-tax Contributions equal to at least 6% of his Compensation for such Plan Year(s) and (4) participated in the Account Balance Option of the NiSource Pension Plan, Columbia Pension Plan, Subsidiary Pension Plan or Bay State Pension Plan, as applicable, shall be eligible for an additional Matching Contribution. The additional Matching Contribution shall be calculated as the difference between (i) the Matching Contributions that would have been allocated to the Participant's Matching Contribution Account during the 2003 and/or 2004 Plan Year(s) if his total After-tax Contributions, if any, and Pre-tax Contributions for such Plan Year(s) had been contributed evenly over each pay period throughout the Plan Year(s) and (ii) the Matching Contribution actually allocated to the Participant's Matching Contribution Account for such Plan Year(s).
The additional Matching Contribution, plus interest (calculated using a rate equal to 4.5% from January 1, 2005 to the date the additional Matching Contribution is transmitted to the Trust as provide herein) shall be allocated to the Participant's Matching Contribution Account in
 
accordance with Section 6.2. The additional Matching Contribution shall be transmitted to the Trust as soon as administratively practicable after September 1, 2005, but in any event no later than December 31, 2005.
Except where inconsistent with this Schedule D, the additional Matching Contribution shall be subject to all provisions of the Plan applicable to Matching Contributions."
     the Company has caused this Sixth Amendment to be executed on its behalf, by its officer duly authorized, this 26th day of August, 2005.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,

 
Exhibit 10.4
August 15, 2005
Ms. S. LaNette Zimmerman
Dear LaNette:
This Letter Agreement confirms your decision to retire from employment with NiSource Corporate Services Company. If you sign this Letter Agreement, it will constitute the mutual agreement between you and the Company regarding the termination of your employment. As used herein, "the Company" shall mean NiSource Inc. or any of its affiliates or subsidiaries, including NiSource Corporate Services Company, and "NiSource" shall mean exclusively NiSource Inc.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Attn: This General Release Should Not Be Signed Prior to Employee's Separation Date, December 31, 2005.
     In consideration of the payments and benefits set forth in the Letter Agreement attached hereto, the sufficiency of which consideration is hereby acknowledged, I, for myself and my heirs, executors and administrators, do hereby fully, finally and unconditionally release and forever discharge NiSource Inc., and all of its parent, sister and subsidiary corporations and all of its affiliates, as well as all of its former and current directors, officers, employees, stockholders, attorneys, agents, predecessors, successors, representatives and assigns, in their personal and corporate capacities (hereinafter "Released Parties"), from any and all liabilities, actions, causes of action, claims, rights, obligations, charges, damages, costs, attorneys' fees, suits, re-employment rights and demands of any and every kind, nature, and character, known and unknown, liquidated or unliquidated, absolute or contingent, in law or in equity, enforceable under any local, state, or federal statute or ordinance, or under the common laws of the United States, including but not limited to, all claims relating to and the specific statutes referred to in footnote 1 , any and all claims relative to any agreement relating to my employment with the Released Parties, including any claims under the doctrines of defamation, libel, slander, invasion of privacy, intentional infliction of emotional distress, interference with contractual relations, retaliatory discharge, whistleblowing, breach of contract, wrongful discharge, breach of implied contract or implied covenant of good faith or fair dealing, and any other statute, authority or law, providing a cause of action relating to my employment with or the termination of my employment with the Released Parties. I also agree not to sue the Released Parties with respect to the claims covered by the foregoing General Release.
from the beginning of time to the date of this General Release,
the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, as amended, 29 U.S.C. 621
et seq
.
1
     I acknowledge that prior to entering into the Letter Agreement to which this General Release is attached and made a part of, I was advised in writing to consult with an attorney prior to executing the Letter Agreement and that I was given a period of at least twenty-one (21) days within which to consider the Letter Agreement, including the terms of this General Release. Moreover, I was advised in writing of my right, for seven days following my execution of the Letter Agreement, to revoke the Letter Agreement
 
 
and thereby decline to execute this General Release. I expressly represent that I did not revoke the Letter Agreement. Accordingly, I acknowledge and agree that the Letter Agreement is effective and enforceable.
     I hereby represent that I have read and understand the terms of this General Release and represent that my execution of this General Release constitutes my knowing and voluntary act, made without coercion or intimidation. I understand that this General Release is applicable to any claims arising prior to the date of this General Release and is binding upon me, my heirs, executors and assigns.
 
S. LaNette Zimmerman
Date: 
                              
 
Witness' Signature
Date: 
                              
 
Exhibit A
Non-Qualified Stock Options
Note: Upon retirement the plan participant has three years to exercise options
TARSAP  Contingent Stock


