FILE:NI/NI-8K-20051202172718.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
ITEM 1.01.
ENTRY INTO A MATERIAL DEFINITIVE AGREEMENT
     On November 30, 2005, NiSource Finance Corp. entered into a new $300 million Revolving Credit Agreement (the "Revolving Credit Agreement") with Dresdner Bank, AG, New York Branch. Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein LLC served as Sole Lead Arranger and Sole Book Runner and Dresdner Bank, AG, New York Branch serves as Administrative Agent. NiSource Inc. is the Guarantor under the Agreement. The purpose of the new Credit Facility is to fund the Company's ongoing working capital requirements and for general corporate purposes. A copy of the Revolving Credit Agreement is attached to this Current Report as Exhibit 10.1.
     Pricing under the new nine month facility will be based on LIBOR. The Revolving Credit Agreement includes one financial covenant, a Maximum Debt-to-Capitalization covenant, set at 70%.
     At a meeting of the Officer Nomination and Compensation Committee (the "ON&C Committee") of the board of directors of NiSource Inc. (the "Company") on November 28, 2005 (the "ON&C Meeting"), the ON&C Committee approved:
     (i) amendments and restatements of (a) the Savings Restoration Plan for NiSource Inc. and Affiliates, as amended and restated effective January 1, 2004 (the "Savings Restoration Plan"), (b) the NiSource Inc. Executive Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended and restated effective January 1, 2004 (the "Executive Deferred Compensation Plan"), (c) the NiSource Inc. 1994 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended and restated effective January 1, 2004 (the "LTIP"), (d) the Pension Restoration Plan for NiSource Inc. and Affiliates, as amended and restated effective January 1, 2004 (the "Pension Restoration Plan"), and (e) the NiSource Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, as amended and restated effective January 1, 2004 (the "SERP," and together with the Executive Deferred Comp Plan, the LTIP, the Pension Restoration Plan and the Savings Restoration Plan, the "Officer Plans"), in each case, to bring the Officer Plans into compliance with, or to conform to Internal Revenue Code Section 409A and the latest Internal Revenue Service guidance and regulations thereunder, specifically:
           the Amended and Restated Savings Restoration Plan amends the Savings Restoration Plan for benefits earned and/or vested on or after January 1, 2005 to change the timing of elections related to the form of distribution, provide for distribution only upon a separation from service, impose distribution delays following separation from service for certain participants and add the definitions of disability and unforeseeable emergency;
 - 
           the Amended and Restated Executive Deferred Compensation Plan (the "Amended and Restated Deferred Compensation Plan"), amends the Executive Deferred Compensation Plan for benefits earned and/or vested on or after January 1, 2005 to change the timing of deferral elections made by participants, eliminate de minimus distributions, restrict the conditions on changes to the form or timing of distributions, provide for distributions based on current elections if such plan is terminated, impose
 - 
Table of Contents
distribution delays following separation from service for certain participants and add the definition of unforeseeable emergency;
           the Amended and Restated Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Amended and Restated LTIP"), amends the LTIP for benefits earned and/or vested on or after January 1, 2005 to impose distribution delays following separation from service for certain participants and revise the definitions of change in control, disability and fair market value;
 - 
           the Amended and Restated Pension Restoration Plan amends the Pension Restoration Plan for all benefits earned under the plan to change the timing of elections related to the form of distribution, restrict the conditions on changes to the form or timing of distributions, impose distribution delays following separation from service for certain participants and add the definition of disability;
 - 
           the Amended and Restated Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (the "Amended and Restated SERP"), amends the SERP for benefits earned and/or vested on or after January 1, 2005 to change the timing of elections related to the form of distribution, provide for distribution only upon a separation from service, impose distribution delays following separation from service for certain participants and add the definitions of disability and unforeseeable emergency;
 - 
     (ii) the First Amendment to the NiSource Executive Severance Policy, effective January 1, 2006 (the "First Amendment to the Executive Policy"), amending the NiSource Executive Severance Policy (the "Executive Policy") to extend the term of the Executive Policy to January 31, 2006.
     (iii) an amendment to the Savings Restoration Plan to clarify that the earlier amendment to the Savings Restoration Plan, which provided for additional matching contributions for certain executives and employees whose matching contributions had not been matched up to the maximum level provided for under the NiSource Inc. Retirement Savings Plan due to uneven employee contributions during 2003 and 2004, is limited to certain groups of employees who were employed prior to January 1, 2002 and who remained employed on January 1, 2005.
     In addition, at a meeting of the Company's Corporate Governance Committee (the "CG Committee") on November 29, 2005, the CG Committee approved amendments and restatements of (a) the NiSource Inc. Nonemployee Director Retirement Plan, as previously amended and restated effective January 1, 2002 (the "Nonemployee Director Retirement Plan") and (b) the NiSource Inc. Nonemployee Director Stock Incentive Plan, as previously amended and restated effective January 1, 2004 (the "Nonemployee Director Stock Incentive Plan," and together with the Nonemployee Director Retirement Plan, the "Director Plans") to bring the Director Plans into compliance with, or to conform to Internal Revenue Code Section 409A and the latest Internal Revenue Service guidance and regulations thereunder, specifically the definitions of change in control and disability in each of the Nonemployee Director Retirement Plan and Nonemployee Director Stock Incentive Plan have been revised.
Table of Contents
     A copy of (i) the Amended and Restated Deferred Compensation Plan is attached to this Current Report as Exhibit 10.2, (ii) the Amended and Restated LTIP is attached to this Current Report as Exhibit 10.3, (iii) the Amended and Restated Pension Restoration Plan is attached to this Current Report as Exhibit 10.4, (iv) the Amended and Restated SERP is attached to this Current Report as Exhibit 10.5, (v) the Amended and Restated Savings Restoration Plan is attached to this Current Report as Exhibit 10.6, (vi) the First Amendment to the Executive Policy is attached to this Current Report as Exhibit 10.7, (vii) the Amended and Restated Nonemployee Director Retirement Plan is attached to this Current Report as Exhibit 10.8 and (viii) the Amended and Restated Nonemployee Director Stock Incentive Plan is attached to this Current Report as Exhibit 10.9. Each such exhibit is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 1.01.
ITEM 9.01.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(c) Exhibits
Table of Contents
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents
EXHIBIT INDEX

 
Exhibit 10.1
[EXECUTION COPY]
 
 
 
EXHIBITS AND SCHEDULES
 
     REVOLVING CREDIT AGREEMENT, dated as of November 30, 2005 (this ""), among NISOURCE FINANCE CORP., an Indiana corporation, as Borrower (the ""), NISOURCE INC., a Delaware corporation (""), as Guarantor (the ""), the Lenders (defined below), DRESDNER KLEINWORT WASSERSTEIN LLC, as the Sole Lead Arranger and Sole Book Runner (the "") and DRESNDER BANK, AG, NEW YORK BRANCH, as the administrative agent for the Lenders (in such capacity, the "").
Agreement
Borrower
NiSource
Guarantor
Arranger
Administrative Agent
     WHEREAS, the parties are willing to enter into this Revolving Credit Agreement on the terms and subject to the conditions herein set forth.
     NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
     SECTION 1.01.   . As used in this Agreement, the following terms have the meanings specified below:
Defined Terms
     "" is defined in the .
Administrative Agent
preamble
     "" means an Administrative Questionnaire in a form supplied by the Administrative Agent.
Administrative Questionnaire
     "" means, with respect to a specified Person, another Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls or is Controlled by or is under common Control with the Person specified.
Affiliate
     "" means the aggregate amount of the Commitments of all Lenders, as in effect from time to time. As of the date hereof, the Aggregate Commitments equal $300,000,000.
Aggregate Commitments
     "" means, for any day, a rate equal to the greater of (a) the Prime Rate in effect on such day and (b) the Federal Funds Effective Rate in effect on such day plus 1/2 of 1%. Any change in the Alternate Base Rate due to a change in the Prime Rate or the Federal Funds Effective Rate shall be effective from and including the effective date of such change in the Prime Rate or the Federal Funds Effective Rate, respectively.
Alternate Base Rate
per
annum
     "" means, with respect to any Lender, the percentage of the Aggregate Commitments represented by such Lender's Commitment. If the Commitments have terminated or expired, the Applicable Percentages shall be determined based upon the Commitments most recently in effect, giving effect to any assignments.
Applicable Percentage
     "" is defined in the .
Arranger
preamble
 
     "" means an assignment and acceptance entered into by a Lender and an assignee (with the consent of any party whose consent is required by ), and accepted by the Administrative Agent, in the form of or any other form approved by the Administrative Agent.
Assignment and Acceptance
Section 11.04
Exhibit A
     "" means the period from and including the Effective Date to but excluding the Termination Date.
Availability Period
     "" has the meaning set forth in .
Beneficiary
Section 10.01
     "" means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States of America.
Board
     "" means NiSource Finance Corp., Inc. an Indiana corporation.
Borrower
     "" means Loans made on the same date and, as to which a single Interest Period is in effect.
Borrowing
     "" means a request by the Borrower for a Loan in accordance with .
Borrowing Request
Section 2.02
     "" means any day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks in New York City are authorized or required by law to remain closed and any day on which banks are not open for dealings in dollar deposits in the London interbank market.
Business Day
     "" means, as to any Person, any lease of real or personal property in respect of which the obligations of the lessee are required, in accordance with GAAP, to be capitalized on the balance sheet of such Person.
Capital Lease
     "" means any and all shares, interests, participations or other equivalents (however designated) of capital stock of a corporation, any and all equivalent ownership interests in a Person other than a corporation (including, but not limited to, all common stock and preferred stock and partnership, membership and joint venture interests in a Person), and any and all warrants, rights or options to purchase any of the foregoing.
Capital Stock
     "" means the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended by the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act, 42, U.S.C. Section 9601 et seq., as amended.
CERCLA
     "" means (a) any "person" or "group" within the meaning of Sections 13(d) and 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, shall become the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) of more than 50% of the then outstanding voting Capital Stock of the Guarantor, (b) Continuing Directors shall cease to constitute at least a majority of the directors constituting the Board of Directors of the Guarantor, (c) a consolidation or merger of the Guarantor shall occur after which the holders of the outstanding voting Capital Stock of the Guarantor immediately prior thereto hold less than 50% of the outstanding voting Capital Stock of the surviving entity; (d) more than 50% of the outstanding voting Capital Stock of the Guarantor shall be transferred
Change of Control
 
to an entity of which the Guarantor owns less than 50% of the outstanding voting Capital Stock; (e) there shall occur a sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Guarantor; or (f) the Borrower, NIPSCO or Columbia shall cease to be a Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of the Guarantor (except to the extent otherwise permitted under , , or of ).
clauses (i)
(ii)
(iii)
(iv)
Section 6.01(b)
     "" means (a) the adoption of any law, rule or regulation after the date of this Agreement, (b) any change in any law, rule or regulation or in the interpretation or application thereof by any Governmental Authority after the date of this Agreement or (c) compliance by any Lender (or, for purposes of , by any lending office of such Lender or by such Lender's holding company, if any) with any request, guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of law) of any Governmental Authority made or issued after the date of this Agreement.
Change in Law
Section 2.15(b)
     "" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
Code
     "" means Columbia Energy Group, a Delaware corporation.
Columbia
     "" means, with respect to each Lender, the commitment of such Lender to make Loans hereunder, as such commitment may be (a) reduced from time to time or terminated pursuant to or and (b) reduced or increased from time to time pursuant to assignments by or to such Lender pursuant to . The initial amount of each Lender's Commitment is (x) the amount set forth on opposite such Lender's name; or (y) the amount set forth in the Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to which such Lender shall have assumed its Commitment, as applicable.
Commitment
Section 2.07
Section 2.09
Section 11.04
Schedule 2.01
     "" means the sum of (a) Consolidated Debt, (b) consolidated common equity of the Guarantor and its Consolidated Subsidiaries determined in accordance with GAAP, and (c) the aggregate liquidation preference of preferred stocks (other than preferred stocks subject to mandatory redemption or repurchase) of the Guarantor and its Consolidated Subsidiaries upon involuntary liquidation.
Consolidated Capitalization
     "" means, at any time, the Indebtedness of the Guarantor and its Consolidated Subsidiaries that would be classified as debt on a balance sheet of the Guarantor determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Debt
     "" means, at any time, the total amount of assets appearing on a consolidated balance sheet of the Guarantor and its Subsidiaries (other than Utility Subsidiaries), determined in accordance with GAAP and prepared as of the end of the fiscal quarter then most recently ended, , without duplication, the following (other than those of Utility Subsidiaries):
Consolidated Net Tangible Assets
less
     (a) all current liabilities (excluding any thereof that are by their terms extendable or renewable at the sole option of the obligor thereon, without requiring the consent of the obligee, to a date more than 12 months after the date of determination);
     (b) all reserves for depreciation and other asset valuation reserves (but excluding any reserves for deferred Federal income taxes, arising from accelerated amortization or otherwise);
 
     (c) all intangible assets, such as goodwill, trademarks, trade names, patents and unamortized debt discount and expense, carried as an asset on such balance sheet; and
     (d) all appropriate adjustments on account of minority interests of other Persons holding common stock of any Subsidiary of the Guarantor.
     "" means, on any date, each Subsidiary of the Guarantor the accounts of which, in accordance with GAAP, would be consolidated with those of the Guarantor in its consolidated financial statements if such statements were prepared as of such date.
Consolidated Subsidiary
     "" means a direct or contingent liability in respect of a Project Financing (whether incurred by assumption, guaranty, endorsement or otherwise) that either (a) is limited to guarantying performance of the completion of the Project that is financed by such Project Financing or (b) is contingent upon, or the obligation to pay or perform under which is contingent upon, the occurrence of any event other than failure of the primary obligor to pay upon final maturity (whether by acceleration or otherwise).
Contingent Guaranty
     "" means all members of the board of directors of the Guarantor who (a) have held office continually since the Effective Date, and (b) were elected as directors after the Effective Date and whose nomination for election was approved by a vote of at least 50% of the Continuing Directors.
Continuing Directors
     "" means, as to any Person, any provision of any security issued by such Person or of any agreement, instrument or other undertaking to which such Person is a party or by which it or any of its property is bound.
Contractual Obligation
     "" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ability to exercise voting power, by contract or otherwise. "" and "" have meanings correlative thereto.
Control
Controlling
Controlled
     "" means (a) this Agreement, any promissory notes executed pursuant to , and any Assignment and Acceptances, (b) any certificates, opinions and other documents required to be delivered pursuant to , and (c) any other documents delivered by a Credit Party pursuant to or in connection with any one or more of the foregoing.
Credit Documents
Section 2.10
Section 3.01
     "" means each of the Borrower and the Guarantor; and "" means the Borrower and the Guarantor, collectively.
Credit Party
Credit Parties
     "" means Dresdner Bank AG or any of its Affiliates.
DB
     "" means, as to any Person, without duplication, (a) all obligations of such Person for borrowed money, (b) all obligations of such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or similar instruments, (c) all Capital Lease obligations of such Person, and (d) all obligations of such Person under synthetic leases, tax retention operating leases, off-balance sheet loans or other off-balance sheet financing products that, for tax purposes, are
Debt for Borrowed Money
 
considered indebtedness for borrowed money of the lessee but are classified as operating leases under GAAP.
     "" means, at any time, the ratio of Consolidated Debt to Consolidated Capitalization.
Debt to Capitalization Ratio
     "" means any event or condition that constitutes an Event of Default or that, upon notice, lapse of time or both would, unless cured or waived, become an Event of Default.
Default
     "" or "" refers to lawful money of the United States of America.
Dollars
$
     "" means the date on which this Agreement has been executed and delivered by each of the Borrower, the Guarantor, the Arranger, the initial Lenders and the Administrative Agent.
Effective Date
     "" means any and all foreign, federal, state, local or municipal laws (including, without limitation, common laws), rules, orders, regulations, statutes, ordinances, codes, decrees, judgments, awards, writs, injunctions, requirements of any Governmental Authority or other requirements of law regulating, relating to or imposing liability or standards of conduct concerning, pollution, waste, industrial hygiene, occupational safety or health, the presence, transport, manufacture, generation, use, handling, treatment, distribution, storage, disposal or release of Hazardous Substances, or protection of human health, plant life or animal life, natural resources or the environment, as now or at any time hereafter in effect.
Environmental Laws
     "" means any liability, contingent or otherwise (including any liability for damages, costs of environmental remediation, fines, penalties or indemnities), of the Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries directly or indirectly resulting from or based upon (a) violation of any Environmental Law, (b) the generation, use, handling, transportation, storage, treatment or disposal of any Hazardous Materials, (c) exposure to any Hazardous Materials, (d) the release or threatened release of any Hazardous Materials into the environment or (e) any contract, agreement or other consensual arrangement pursuant to which liability is assumed or imposed with respect to any of the foregoing.
Environmental Liability
     "" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time, and the regulations promulgated and rulings issued thereunder.
ERISA
     "" means any Person who, for purposes of Title IV of ERISA, is a member of the Guarantor's controlled group, or under common control with the Guarantor, within the meaning of Section 414 of the Code and the regulations promulgated and rulings issued thereunder.
ERISA Affiliate
     "" means (a) a reportable event, within the meaning of Section 4043 of ERISA, unless the 30-day notice requirement with respect thereto has been waived by the PBGC, (b) the provision by the administrator of any Plan of a notice of intent to terminate such Plan, pursuant to Section 4041(a)(2) and 4041(c) of ERISA (including any such notice with respect to a plan amendment referred to in Section 4041(e) of ERISA), (c) the withdrawal by the Guarantor or an ERISA Affiliate from a Multiple Employer Plan during a plan year for which it was a substantial employer, as defined in Section 4001(a)(2) of ERISA, (d) the failure by the Guarantor
ERISA Event
 
or any ERISA Affiliate to make a payment to a Plan required under Section 302(f)(1) of ERISA, which Section imposes a lien for failure to make required payments, (e) the adoption of an amendment to a Plan requiring the provision of security to such Plan, pursuant to Section 307 of ERISA, or (f) the institution by the PBGC of proceedings to terminate a Plan, pursuant to Section 4042 of ERISA, or the occurrence of any event or condition which may reasonably be expected to constitute grounds under Section 4042 of ERISA for the termination of, or the appointment of a trustee to administer, a Plan.
     "" has the meaning assigned to that term in Regulation D of the Board, as in effect from time to time.
Eurocurrency Liabilities
     "" of any Lender for the Interest Period for any Loan means the reserve percentage applicable during such Interest Period (or if more than one such percentage shall be so applicable, the daily average of such percentages for those days in such Interest Period during which any such percentage shall be so applicable) under regulations issued from time to time by the Board (or any successor) for determining the maximum reserve requirement (including, without limitation, any emergency, supplemental or other marginal reserve requirement) for such Lender with respect to liabilities or assets consisting of or including Eurocurrency Liabilities having a term equal to such Interest Period.
Eurodollar Rate Reserve Percentage
     "" has the meaning assigned to such term in .
Event of Default
Article VIII
     "" means, with respect to the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any other recipient of any payment to be made by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower hereunder, (a) income or franchise taxes imposed on (or measured by) its net income or net earnings by the United States of America, or by the jurisdiction under the laws of which such recipient is organized or in which its principal office is located or, in the case of any Lender, in which its applicable lending office is located and (b) in case of a Foreign Lender (other than an assignee pursuant to a request by the Borrower under ), any withholding tax that (i) is imposed on amounts payable to such Foreign Lender at the time such Foreign Lender becomes a party to this Agreement, except to the extent that such Foreign Lender's assignor (if any) was entitled, at the time of assignment, to receive additional amounts from the Borrower with respect to such withholding tax pursuant to or (ii) is attributable to such Foreign Lender's failure to comply with when legally able to do so.
Excluded Taxes
Section 2.19(d)
Section 2.17(a)
Section 2.17(e)
     "" means the Credit Agreement, dated as of March 11, 2005 (as amended or otherwise modified), among the Borrower, the Guarantor, certain financial institutions as lenders and Barclays Bank Plc, as Administrative Agent and LC Bank.
Existing Agreement
     "" means, with respect to any Lender at any time, such Lender's Outstanding Loans.
Exposure
     "" has the meaning set forth in .
Facility Fee
Section 2.12
     "" means Title 11 of the United States Code (11 U.S.C.  101 et seq.) as now or hereafter in effect, or any successor statute.
Federal Bankruptcy Code
 
     "" means, for any day, the weighted average (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/100 of 1%) of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers, as published on the next succeeding Business Day by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day that is a Business Day, the average (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/100 of 1%) of the quotations for such day for such transactions received by the Administrative Agent from three Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by it.
Federal Funds Effective Rate
     "" means any Lender that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than that in which the Borrower is located. For purposes of this definition, the United States of America, each State thereof and the District of Columbia shall be deemed to constitute a single jurisdiction.
Foreign Lender
     "" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America consistent with those applied in the preparation of the financial statements referred to in .
GAAP
Section 4.01(e)
     "" means the government of the United States of America, any other nation, or any political subdivision of the United States of America or any other nation, whether state or local, and any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, central bank or other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government and includes, in any event, an "Independent System Operator" or any entity performing a similar function.
Governmental Authority
     "" has the meaning set forth in .
Granting Lender
Section 11.04
     "" means NiSource.
Guarantor
     "" means the guaranty of the Guarantor pursuant to of this Agreement.
Guaranty
Article X
     "" means any asbestos; flammables; volatile hydrocarbons; industrial solvents; explosive or radioactive materials; hazardous wastes; toxic substances; liquefied natural gas; natural gas liquids; synthetic gas; oil, petroleum, or related materials and any constituents, derivatives, or byproducts thereof or additives thereto; or any other material, substance, waste, element or compound (including any product) regulated pursuant to any Environmental Law, including, without limitation, substances defined as "hazardous substances," "hazardous materials," "contaminants," "pollutants," "hazardous wastes," "toxic substances," "solid waste," or "extremely hazardous substances" in (i) CERCLA, (ii) the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act, 49 U.S.C. Section 1801 et seq., (iii) the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. Section 6901 et seq., (iv) the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. Section 1251 et seq., (v) the Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. Section 7401 et seq., (vi) the Toxic Substances Control Act, 15 U.S.C. Section 2601 et seq., (vii) the Safe Drinking Water Act, 42 U.S.C. Section 300f et seq., or (viii) foreign, state, local or municipal law, in each case, as may be amended from time to time.
Hazardous Materials
     "" of any Person means (without duplication) (a) Debt for Borrowed Money, (b) obligations of such Person to pay the deferred purchase price of property or services, except
Indebtedness
 
trade accounts payable arising in the ordinary course of business which are not overdue, (c) all obligations, contingent or otherwise, of such Person in respect of any letters of credit, bankers' acceptances or interest rate, currency or commodity swap, cap or floor arrangements, (d) all indebtedness of others secured by (or for which the holder of such indebtedness has an existing right, contingent or otherwise, to be secured by) any Lien on property owned or acquired by such Person, whether or not the indebtedness secured thereby has been assumed, (e) all amounts payable by such Person in connection with mandatory redemptions or repurchases of preferred stock, and (f) obligations of such Person under direct or indirect guarantees in respect of, and obligations (contingent or otherwise) to purchase or otherwise acquire, or otherwise to assure a creditor against loss in respect of, indebtedness or obligations of others of the kinds referred to in through above.
clauses (a)
(e)
     "" means Taxes other than Excluded Taxes.
Indemnified Taxes
     "" has the meaning set forth in .
Indemnitee
Section 11.03
     "" means the senior unsecured long-term debt securities of the Borrower, without third-party credit enhancement provided by a Person other than the Guarantor.
Index Debt
     "" has the meaning set forth in .
Information
Section 11.12
     "" means, with respect to any Plan, the amount, if any, by which the present value of all vested and unvested accrued benefits under such Plan exceeds the fair market value of assets allocable to such benefits, all determined as of the then most recent valuation date for such Plan using actuarial assumptions used in determining such Plan's normal cost for purposes of Section 4l2(b)(2)(A) of the Code.
Insufficiency
     "" means the last day of the Interest Period applicable to the Borrowing of which such Loan is a part and the Termination Date.
Interest Payment Date
     "" means the period commencing on the date of such Borrowing and ending on the numerically corresponding day in the calendar month that is three months thereafter; that (a) if any Interest Period would end on a day other than a Business Day, such Interest Period shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day unless such next succeeding Business Day would fall in the next calendar month, in which case such Interest Period shall end on the next preceding Business Day; and (b) any Interest Period that commences on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the last calendar month of such Interest Period) shall end on the last Business Day of the last calendar month of such Interest Period. For purposes hereof, the date of a Borrowing initially shall be the date on which such Borrowing is made and thereafter shall be the effective date of the most recent continuation of such Borrowing.
Interest Period
provided
     "" means the Persons listed on , including any such Person identified thereon or in the signature pages hereto as the Arranger, and any other Person that shall have become a party hereto pursuant to an Assignment and Acceptance, other than any such Person that ceases to be a party hereto pursuant to an Assignment and Acceptance.
Lenders
Schedule 2.01
 
     "" means, with respect to any Borrowing for any Interest Period, the rate appearing on Telerate Page 3750 (or on any successor or substitute page of such service, or any successor to or substitute for such service, providing rate quotations comparable to those currently provided on such page of such service, as determined by the Administrative Agent from time to time for purposes of providing quotations of interest rates applicable to dollar deposits in the London interbank market) at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period, as the rate for dollar deposits with a maturity comparable to such Interest Period. In the event that such rate is not available at such time for any reason, then the "" with respect to such Borrowing for such Interest Period shall be the rate at which Dollar deposits of $5,000,000 and for a maturity comparable to such Interest Period are offered by the principal London office of the Administrative Agent in immediately available funds in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period.
LIBO Rate
LIBO Rate
     "" has the meaning set forth in .
Lien
Section 6.01(a)
     "" means the loans made by the Lenders to the Borrower pursuant to this Agreement.
Loans
     "" means margin stock within the meaning of Regulations U and X issued by the Board.
Margin Stock
     "" means a material adverse effect on (a) the business, assets, operations, condition (financial or otherwise) or prospects of the Guarantor and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole; (b) the validity or enforceability of any of Credit Documents or the rights, remedies and benefits available to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders thereunder; or (c) the ability of the Borrower or the Guarantor to consummate the Transactions.
Material Adverse Effect
     "" means at any time the Borrower, NIPSCO, Columbia, and each Subsidiary of the Guarantor, other than the Borrower, NIPSCO and Columbia, in respect of which:
Material Subsidiary
     (a) the Guarantor's and its other Subsidiaries' investments in and advances to such Subsidiary and its Subsidiaries exceed 10% of the consolidated total assets of the Guarantor and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole, as of the end of the most recent fiscal year; or
     (b) the Guarantor's and its other Subsidiaries' proportionate interest in the total assets (after intercompany eliminations) of such Subsidiary and its Subsidiaries exceeds 10% of the consolidated total assets of the Guarantor and its Subsidiaries as of the end of the most recent fiscal year; or
     (c) the Guarantor's and its other Subsidiaries' equity in the income from continuing operations before income taxes, extraordinary items and cumulative effect of a change in accounting principles of such Subsidiary and its Subsidiaries exceeds 10% of the consolidated income of the Guarantor and its Subsidiaries for the most recent fiscal year.
 
     "" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc., and any successor thereto.
Moody's
     "" means a multiemployer plan as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA.
Multiemployer Plan
     "" means a single employer plan, as defined in Section 4001(a)(15) of ERISA, which (a) is maintained for employees of the Borrower or an ERISA Affiliate and at least one Person other than the Borrower and its ERISA Affiliates, or (b) was so maintained and in respect of which the Borrower or an ERISA Affiliate could have liability under Section 4064 or 4069 of ERISA in the event that such plan has been or were to be terminated.
Multiple Employer Plan
     "" means Northern Indiana Public Service Company, an Indiana corporation.
NIPSCO
     "" means Indebtedness of the Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries which is incurred in connection with the acquisition, construction, sale, transfer or other disposition of specific assets, to the extent recourse, whether contractual or as a matter of law, for non-payment of such Indebtedness is limited (a) to such assets or (b) if such assets are (or are to be) held by a Subsidiary formed solely for such purpose, to such Subsidiary or the Capital Stock of such Subsidiary.
Non-Recourse Debt
     "" means all amounts, direct or indirect, contingent or absolute, of every type or description, and at any time existing and whenever incurred (including, without limitation, after the commencement of any bankruptcy proceeding), owing to the Administrative Agent or any Lender pursuant to the terms of this Agreement or any other Credit Document.
Obligations
     "" means any and all present or future stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies arising from any payment made hereunder or from the execution, delivery or enforcement of, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement.
Other Taxes
     "" means, as to any Lender at any time, the aggregate principal amount of all Loans made or maintained by such Lender then outstanding.
Outstanding Loans
     "" has the meaning set forth in .
Participant
Section 11.04
     "" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation referred to and defined in ERISA and any successor entity performing similar functions.
PBGC
     "" means any natural person, corporation, limited liability company, trust, joint venture, association, company, partnership, Governmental Authority or other entity.
Person
     "" means any employee pension benefit plan (other than a Multiemployer Plan) subject to the provisions of Title IV of ERISA or Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 of ERISA, and in respect of which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate is (or, if such plan were terminated, would under Section 4069 of ERISA be deemed to be) an "employer" as defined in Section 3(5) of ERISA.
Plan
 
     "" means the rate of interest publicly announced or established from time to time by the Administrative Agent as its prime or base rate in effect at its principal office in New York City; each change in the Prime Rate shall be effective from and including the date such change is publicly announced as being effective.
Prime Rate
per
annum
     "" means an energy or power generation, transmission or distribution facility (including, without limitation, a thermal energy generation, transmission or distribution facility and an electric power generation, transmission or distribution facility (including, without limitation, a cogeneration facility)), a gas production, transportation or distribution facility, or a minerals extraction, processing or distribution facility, together with (a) all related electric power transmission, fuel supply and fuel transportation facilities and power supply, thermal energy supply, gas supply, minerals supply and fuel contracts, (b) other facilities, services or goods that are ancillary, incidental, necessary or reasonably related to the marketing, development, construction, management, servicing, ownership or operation of such facility, (c) contractual arrangements with customers, suppliers and contractors in respect of such facility, and (d) any infrastructure facility related to such facility, including, without limitation, for the treatment or management of waste water or the treatment or remediation of waste, pollution or potential pollutants.
Project
     "" means Indebtedness incurred by a Project Financing Subsidiary to finance (a) the development and operation of the Project such Project Financing Subsidiary was formed to develop or (b) activities incidental thereto; that such Indebtedness does not include recourse to the Guarantor or any of its other Subsidiaries other than (x) recourse to the Capital Stock in any such Project Financing Subsidiary, and (y) recourse pursuant to a Contingent Guaranty.
Project Financing
provided
     "" means any Subsidiary of the Guarantor (a) that (i) is not a Material Subsidiary, and (ii) whose principal purpose is to develop a Project and activities incidental thereto (including, without limitation, the financing and operation of such Project), or to become a partner, member or other equity participant in a partnership, limited liability company or other entity having such a principal purpose, and (b) substantially all the assets of which are limited to the assets relating to the Project being developed or Capital Stock in such partnership, limited liability company or other entity (and substantially all of the assets of any such partnership, limited liability company or other entity are limited to the assets relating to such Project); that such Subsidiary incurs no Indebtedness other than in respect of a Project Financing.
Project Financing Subsidiary
provided
     "" has the meaning set forth in .
Register
Section 11.04
     "" means, with respect to any specified Person, such Person's Affiliates and the respective directors, officers, employees, agents and advisors of such Person and such Person's Affiliates.
Related Parties
     "" means Lenders having more than 50% in aggregate amount of the Commitments, or if the Commitments shall have been terminated, of the Total Outstanding Principal.
Required Lenders
 
     "" of a Credit Party means any of (a) the President, the chief financial officer, the chief accounting officer and the Treasurer of such Credit Party and (b) any other officer of such Credit Party whose responsibilities include monitoring compliance with this Agreement.
Responsible Officer
     "" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Group, a division of The McGraw Hill Companies, Inc., and any successor thereto.
S&P
     "" has the meaning set forth in .
SPFV
Section 11.04
     "" means, with respect to any Person, any corporation or other entity of which at least a majority of the outstanding shares of stock or other ownership interests having by the terms thereof ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the board of directors or other managers of such corporation or other entity (irrespective of whether or not at the time stock or other equity interests of any other class or classes of such corporation or other entity shall have or might have voting power by reason of the happening of any contingency) is at the time directly or indirectly owned or controlled by such Person or one or more of the Subsidiaries of such Person.
Subsidiary
     "" has the meaning set forth in .
Substantial Subsidiaries
Section 8.01
     "" means any and all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties, deductions, charges or withholdings imposed by any Governmental Authority, including any interest, penalties and additions to tax imposed thereon or in connection therewith.
Taxes
     "" means the earliest of (a) September 5, 2006 and (b) the date upon which the Commitments are terminated pursuant to or otherwise.
Termination Date
Section 8.1
     "" means the aggregate amount of the Outstanding Loans of all Lenders.
Total Outstanding Principal
     "" means the execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower and the Guarantor of this Agreement and the Borrowing of Loans hereunder.
Transactions
     "" has the meaning set forth in .
Upfront Fee
Section 2.12
     "" means a Subsidiary of the Guarantor that is subject to regulation by a Governmental Authority (federal, state or otherwise) having authority to regulate utilities, and any Wholly-Owned Subsidiary thereof.
Utility Subsidiary
     "" means, with respect to any Person, any corporation or other entity of which all of the outstanding shares of stock or other ownership interests in which, other than directors' qualifying shares (or the equivalent thereof), are at the time directly or indirectly owned or controlled by such Person or one or more of the Subsidiaries of such Person.
Wholly-Owned Subsidiary
     "" means liability to a Multiemployer Plan as a result of a complete or partial withdrawal from such Multiemployer Plan, as such terms are defined in Sections 4201, 4203 and 4205 of ERISA.
Withdrawal Liability
 
     SECTION 1.02.   . The definitions of terms herein shall apply equally to the singular and plural forms of the terms defined. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms. The words "include", "includes" and "including" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation". The word "or" shall not be exclusive. The word "will" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect as the word "shall". Unless the context requires otherwise (a) any definition of or reference to any agreement, instrument or other document herein shall be construed as referring to such agreement, instrument or other document as from time to time amended, supplemented or otherwise modified (subject to any restrictions on such amendments, supplements or modifications set forth herein), (b) any reference herein to any Person shall be construed to include such Person's successors and assigns, (c) the words "herein", "hereof" and "hereunder", and words of similar import, shall be construed to refer to this Agreement in its entirety and not to any particular provision hereof, (d) all references herein to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules shall be construed to refer to Articles and Sections of, and Exhibits and Schedules to, this Agreement and (e) the words "asset" and "property" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect and to refer to any and all tangible and intangible assets and properties, including cash, securities, accounts and contract rights. The terms "knowledge of", "awareness of" and "receipt of notice of" in relation to a Credit Party, and other similar expressions, mean knowledge of, awareness of, or receipt of notice by, a Responsible Officer of such Credit Party. In the event the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, as amended, shall cease to be of effect and not replaced, references herein to such Act shall cease to be of effect.
Terms Generally
     SECTION 1.03.   . Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all terms of an accounting or financial nature shall be construed in accordance with GAAP, as in effect from time to time; that, if the Borrower notifies the Administrative Agent that the Borrower requests an amendment to any provision hereof to eliminate the effect of any change occurring after the Effective Date in GAAP or in the application thereof on the operation of such provision (or if the Administrative Agent notifies the Borrower that the Required Lenders request an amendment to any provision hereof for such purpose), regardless of whether any such notice is given before or after such change in GAAP or in the application thereof, then such provision shall be interpreted on the basis of GAAP as in effect and applied immediately before such change shall have become effective until such notice shall have been withdrawn or such provision amended in accordance herewith.
Accounting Terms; GAAP
provided
     SECTION 2.01. . (a) Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Lender agrees to make Loans to the Borrower from time to time during the Availability Period in an aggregate principal amount that will not result in (i) such Lender's Exposure exceeding such Lender's Commitment or (ii) the sum of the Exposures of all of the Lenders exceeding the Aggregate Commitments.
Commitments
     (b) Within the foregoing limits and subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Borrower may borrow, prepay and reborrow Loans.
 
     SECTION 2.02.   . (a) Each Loan shall be made as part of a Borrowing consisting of Loans made by the Lenders ratably in accordance with their respective Commitments. The failure of any Lender to make any Loan required to be made by it shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligations hereunder; that the Commitments of the Lenders are several and no Lender shall be responsible for any other Lender's failure to make Loans as required.
Loans; Requests for Borrowings
provided
     (b) Each Lender at its option may make any Loan by causing any domestic or foreign branch or Affiliate of such Lender to make such Loan; that any exercise of such option shall not affect the obligation of the Borrower to repay such Loan in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
provided
     (c) At the commencement of each Interest Period for any Borrowing, such Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount that is an integral multiple of $5,000,000 and not less than $10,000,000 and there shall not at any time be more than a total of two Loans outstanding under this Agreement.
     (d) To request a Loan, the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of such request by telephone not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, three Business Days before the date of the proposed Borrowing. Each such telephonic Borrowing Request shall be irrevocable and shall be confirmed promptly by hand delivery or telecopy to the Administrative Agent of a written Borrowing Request in a form approved by the Administrative Agent and signed by the Borrower. Each such telephonic and written Borrowing Request shall specify the following information:
     (i) the aggregate amount of the requested Borrowing; and
     (ii) the date of such Borrowing, which shall be a Business Day;
     Promptly following receipt of a Borrowing Request in accordance with this Section, the Administrative Agent shall advise each Lender of the details thereof and of the amount of such Lender's Loan to be made as part of the requested Borrowing.
     SECTION 2.03.   .
[
Intentionally Omitted
]
     SECTION 2.04.   .
[
Intentionally Omitted
]
     SECTION 2.05.   . (a) Each Lender shall make each Loan to be made by it hereunder on the proposed date thereof by wire transfer of immediately available funds by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, to the account of the Administrative Agent most recently designated by it for such purpose by notice to the Lenders. The Administrative Agent will make such Loans available to the Borrower by promptly crediting the amounts so received, in like funds, to an account established and maintained by the Borrower at the Administrative Agent's office in New York City.
Funding of Borrowings
     (b) Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the proposed time of any Borrowing that such Lender will not make available to the Administrative Agent such Lender's share of such Borrowing, the Administrative
 
Agent may assume that such Lender has made such share available on such date in accordance with of this Section and may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Borrower a corresponding amount. In such event, if a Lender has not in fact made its share of the applicable Borrowing available to the Administrative Agent, then the applicable Lender and the Borrower severally agree to pay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is made available to the Borrower to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at (i) in the case of such Lender, the Federal Funds Effective Rate or (ii) in the case of the Borrower, the interest rate applicable to such Borrowing. If such Lender pays such amount to the Administrative Agent, then such amount shall constitute such Lender's Loan included in such Borrowing.
paragraph (a)
     SECTION 2.06.   .
[
Intentionally Omitted
]
     SECTION 2.07.   . Unless previously terminated, the Commitments shall terminate on the Termination Date.
Mandatory Termination or Reduction of Commitments
     SECTION 2.08.   . (a) If at any time the Total Outstanding Principal exceeds the Aggregate Commitments then in effect for any reason whatsoever (including, without limitation, as a result of any reduction in the Aggregate Commitments pursuant to ), the Borrower shall prepay Loans in such aggregate amount (together with accrued interest thereon to the extent required by ) as shall be necessary so that, after giving effect to such prepayment, the Total Outstanding Principal does not exceed the Aggregate Commitments.
Mandatory Prepayments
Section 2.09
Section 2.13
     (b) Each prepayment of Loans pursuant to this shall be accompanied by the Borrower's payment of any amounts payable under in connection with such prepayment. Prepayments of Loans shall be applied ratably to the Loans so prepaid.
Section 2.08
Section 2.16
     SECTION 2.09.   . (a) The Borrower may not terminate, or reduce, the Commitments at any time other than on an Interest Payment Date. Any reduction of the Commitments shall be in an amount that is an integral multiple of $10,000,000 and the Borrower shall not terminate or reduce the Commitments if, after giving effect to any concurrent prepayment of the Loans in accordance with , the Total Outstanding Principal would exceed the Aggregate Commitments thereafter in effect.
Optional Reduction of Commitments
Section 2.11
     (b) The Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of any election to terminate or reduce the Commitments under at least five Business Days prior to the effective date of such termination or reduction, specifying such election and the effective date thereof. Promptly following receipt of any notice, the Administrative Agent shall advise the Lenders of the contents thereof. Each notice delivered by the Borrower pursuant to this Section shall be irrevocable; that a notice of termination of the Commitments delivered by the Borrower may state that such notice is conditioned upon the effectiveness of other credit facilities, in which case such notice may be revoked by the Borrower (by notice to the Administrative Agent on or prior to the
Section 2.09(a)
provided
 
specified effective date) if such condition is not satisfied. Any termination or reduction of the Commitments shall be permanent.
     (c) Each reduction of the Commitments pursuant to this shall be made ratably among the Lenders in accordance with their respective Commitments immediately preceding such reduction.
Section 2.09
     SECTION 2.10.   . (a) The Borrower hereby unconditionally promises to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender the then unpaid principal amount of each Loan on the Termination Date.
Repayment of Loans; Evidence of Debt
     (b) Each Lender shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice an account or accounts evidencing the indebtedness of the Borrower to such Lender resulting from each Loan made by such Lender, including the amounts of principal and interest payable and paid to such Lender from time to time hereunder.
     (c) The Administrative Agent shall maintain accounts in which it shall record (i) the amount of each Loan made hereunder, (ii) the amount of any principal or interest due and payable or to become due and payable from the Borrower to each Lender hereunder and (iii) the amount of any sum received by the Administrative Agent hereunder for the account of the Lenders and each Lender's share thereof.
     (d) The entries made in the accounts maintained pursuant to or of this Section shall be prima facie evidence of the existence and amounts of the obligations recorded therein; that the failure of any Lender or the Administrative Agent to maintain such accounts or any error therein shall not in any manner affect the obligation of the Borrower to repay the Loans in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
paragraph (b)
(c)
provided
     (e) Any Lender may request that Loans made by it be evidenced by a promissory note. In such event, the Borrower shall prepare, execute and deliver to such Lender a promissory note payable to the order of such Lender (or, if requested by such Lender, to such Lender and its registered assigns) and in a form approved by the Administrative Agent. Thereafter, the Loans evidenced by such promissory note and interest thereon shall at all times (including after assignment pursuant to ) be represented by one or more promissory notes in such form payable to the order of the payee named therein (or, if such promissory note is a registered note, to such payee and its registered assigns).
Section 11.04
     SECTION 2.11. . (a) The Borrower may prepay any Borrowing in whole or in part at any time. Loans prepaid pursuant to this Section may be reborrowed up to the then Outstanding Commitment amount in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
Optional Prepayment of Loans
     (b) The Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent by telephone (confirmed by telecopy) of any prepayment hereunder not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, three Business Days before the date of prepayment. Each such notice shall be irrevocable and shall specify the prepayment date and the principal amount of
 
each Borrowing or portion thereof to be prepaid; that, if a notice of prepayment is given in connection with a conditional notice of termination of the Commitments as contemplated by , then such notice of prepayment may be revoked if such notice of termination is revoked in accordance with . Promptly following receipt of any such notice relating to a Borrowing, the Administrative Agent shall advise the Lenders of the contents thereof. Prepayments shall be accompanied by accrued interest to the extent required by and by any amounts payable under in connection with such prepayment.
provided
Section 2.09
Section 2.09
Section 2.13
Section 2.16
     SECTION 2.12. . (a) The Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender a facility fee (each a ""), which shall accrue at the rate of 0.375% on the daily amount of the Commitment of such Lender (whether used or unused) during the period from and including the Effective Date to but excluding the date on which such Commitment terminates; that, if such Lender continues to have any Outstanding Loans after its Commitment terminates, then such Facility Fee shall continue to accrue on the daily amount of such Lender's Outstanding Loans from and including the date on which its Commitment terminates to but excluding the date on which such Lender ceases to have any Outstanding Loans. Accrued Facility Fees shall be payable in arrears on the last day of March, June, September and December of each year and on the date on which the Commitments terminate, commencing on the first such date to occur after the Effective Date; that any Facility Fees accruing after the date on which the Commitments terminate shall be payable on demand. All Facility Fees shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days and shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day).
Fees
Facility Fee
per annum
provided
provided
     (b) The Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders an upfront fee (the "") in the aggregate amount of $150,000, payable in full on the Closing Date.
Upfront Fee
     (c) All fees payable hereunder shall be paid on the dates due, in immediately available funds, to the Administrative Agent for distribution to the Lenders. Fees due and paid shall not be refundable under any circumstances.
     SECTION 2.13.   . (a) The Loans shall bear interest at a rate equal to the LIBO Rate for a three-month Interest Period.
Interest
per annum
     (b) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any principal of or interest on any Loan or any fee or other amount payable by the Borrower hereunder is not paid when due, whether at stated maturity, upon acceleration or otherwise, such overdue amount shall bear interest, after as well as before judgment, at a rate equal to (i) in the case of overdue principal of any Loan, 2% plus the rate otherwise applicable to such Loan as provided above or (ii) in the case of any other amount, 2% plus the Alternate Base Rate as provided above.
per annum
     (c) Accrued interest on each Loan shall be payable in arrears on each Interest Payment Date for such Loan; that (i) interest accrued pursuant to of this Section shall be payable on demand, (ii) in the event of any repayment or prepayment of any Loan, accrued interest on the principal amount repaid or prepaid shall
provided
paragraph (b)
 
be payable on the date of such repayment or prepayment and (iii) all accrued interest shall be payable upon termination of the Commitments.
     (d) All interest hereunder shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days, and in each case shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day). The applicable LIBO Rate shall be determined by the Administrative Agent, and such determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
     SECTION 2.14.   .
[
Intentionally Omitted
]
     SECTION 2.15.   . (a) If any Change in Law shall:
Increased Costs
     (i) impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve, special deposit or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended by, any Lender (except any such reserve requirement described in of this Section); or
paragraph (e)
     (ii) impose on any Lender or the London interbank market any other condition affecting this Agreement or Loans made by such Lender or participation therein; and the result of any of the foregoing shall be to increase the cost to such Lender of making or maintaining any Loan and participation interests therein (or of maintaining its obligation to make any such Loan) or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by such Lender hereunder (whether of principal, interest or otherwise), then the Borrower will pay to such Lender, as the case may be, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender for such additional costs incurred or reduction suffered.
     (b) If any Lender determines that any Change in Law regarding capital requirements has or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lender's capital or on the capital of its holding company, if any, as a consequence of this Agreement to a level below that which such Lender or its holding company could have achieved but for such Change in Law (taking into consideration its policies and the policies of its holding company with respect to capital adequacy), then from time to time the Borrower will pay to such Lender, as the case may be, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate it or its holding company for any such reduction suffered.
     (c) A certificate of a Lender, as the case may be, setting forth the amount or amounts necessary to compensate it or its holding company as specified in or of this Section shall be delivered to the Borrower and shall be conclusive absent manifest error. The Borrower shall pay the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof.
paragraph (a)
(b)
     (d) Failure or delay on the part of any Lender to demand compensation pursuant to this Section shall not constitute a waiver of its right to demand such compensation; that the Borrower shall not be required to compensate a Lender pursuant to this Section for any increased costs or reductions incurred more than ninety days prior to the date that such Lender notifies the Borrower of the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions and of its intention to claim compensation
provided
 
therefor; , that, if the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions is retroactive, then the ninety day period referred to above shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof.
provided
further
     (e) The Borrower shall pay (without duplication as to amounts paid under this ) to each Lender, so long as such Lender shall be required under regulations of the Board to maintain reserves with respect to liabilities or assets consisting of or including Eurocurrency Liabilities, additional interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Loan of such Lender, from the date of such Loan until such principal amount is paid in full, at an interest rate equal at all times to the remainder obtained by subtracting (i) the LIBO Rate for the Interest Period for such Loan from (ii) the rate obtained by dividing such LIBO Rate by a percentage equal to 100% minus the Eurodollar Rate Reserve Percentage of such Lender for such Interest Period, payable on each date on which interest is payable on such Loan. Such additional interest determined by such Lender and notified to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent, accompanied by the calculation of the amount thereof, shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes absent manifest error.
Section 2.15
per annum
     SECTION 2.16.   . In the event of (a) the payment of any principal of any Loan other than on the last day of an Interest Period applicable thereto (including as a result of an Event of Default), (b) the failure to borrow or prepay any Loan on the date specified in any notice delivered pursuant hereto (regardless of whether such notice is permitted to be revocable under and is revoked in accordance therewith), or (c) the assignment of any Loan other than on the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto as a result of a request by the Borrower pursuant to , then, in any such event, the Borrower shall compensate each Lender for the loss, cost and expense attributable to such event. In the case of a Loan, the loss to any Lender attributable to any such event shall be deemed to include an amount reasonably determined by such Lender to be equal to the excess, if any, of (x) the amount of interest that such Lender would pay for a deposit equal to the principal amount of such Loan for the period from the date of such payment, failure or assignment to the last day of the then current Interest Period for such Loan (or, in the case of a failure to borrow, the duration of the Interest Period that would have resulted from such borrowing) if the interest rate payable on such deposit were equal to the LIBO Rate for such Interest Period, over (y) the amount of interest that such Lender would earn on such principal amount for such period if such Lender were to invest such principal amount for such period at the interest rate that would be bid by such Lender (or an affiliate of such Lender) for dollar deposit from other banks in the eurodollar market at the commencement of such period. A certificate of any Lender setting forth any amount or amounts that such Lender is entitled to receive pursuant to this Section shall be delivered to the Borrower and shall be conclusive absent manifest error. The Borrower shall pay such Lender the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof.
Break Funding Payments
Section 2.11(b)
Section 2.19
     SECTION 2.17.   . (a) Any and all payments by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower hereunder shall be made free and clear of and without deduction for any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes; that if any Credit Party shall be required to deduct any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes from such payments, then (i) the sum payable shall be increased as necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions
Taxes
provided
 
applicable to additional sums payable under this Section) the Administrative Agent or Lender (as the case may be) receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) such Credit Party shall make such deductions and (iii) such Credit Party shall pay the full amount deducted to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
     (b) In addition, the Borrower shall pay any Other Taxes to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
     (c) The Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent and each Lender, within 10 days after written demand therefor, for the full amount of any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes (and for any Taxes imposed or asserted on or attributable to amounts payable under this Section) paid by the Administrative Agent, or such Lender, as the case may be, and any penalties, interest and reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority. A certificate as to the amount of such payment or liability delivered to the Borrower by a Lender, or by the Administrative Agent on its own behalf or on behalf of a Lender, shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
     (d) As soon as practicable after any payment of Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes by a Credit Party to a Governmental Authority, such Credit Party shall deliver to the Administrative Agent the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing such payment, a copy of the return reporting such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
     (e) Any Foreign Lender that is entitled to an exemption from or reduction of withholding tax under the laws of the jurisdiction in which the Borrower or the Guarantor is located, or any treaty to which such jurisdiction is a party, with respect to payments under this Agreement shall deliver to the Borrower (with an additional original or a photocopy, as required under applicable rules and procedures, to the Administrative Agent), at the time or times prescribed by applicable law or reasonably requested by the Borrower, such properly completed and executed documentation prescribed by applicable law as shall be necessary to permit such payments to be made without withholding or at a reduced rate. Further, in those circumstances as shall be necessary to allow payments hereunder to be made free of (or at a reduced rate of) withholding tax, each other Lender and the Administrative Agent, as applicable, shall deliver to Borrower such documentation as the Borrower may reasonably request in writing.
     (f) Except with the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent, all amounts payable by a Credit Party hereunder shall be made by such Credit Party in its own name and for its own account from within the United States by a payor that is a United States person (within the meaning of Section 7701 of the Code).
     SECTION 2.18.   . (a) The Borrower shall make each payment required to be made by it hereunder (whether of principal,
Payments Generally; Pro Rata Treatment; Sharing of Set-Offs
 
interest or fees, or under , , or , or otherwise) prior to 12:00 noon, New York City time, on the date when due, in immediately available funds, without set-off or counterclaim. Any amounts received after such time on any date may, in the discretion of the Administrative Agent, be deemed to have been received on the next succeeding Business Day for purposes of calculating interest thereon. All such payments shall be made to the Administrative Agent at its offices at 1301 Avenue of the Americas, New York, New York, except that payments pursuant to , , and shall be made directly to the Persons entitled thereto. The Administrative Agent shall distribute any such payments received by it for the account of any other Person to the appropriate recipient promptly following receipt thereof. If any payment hereunder shall be due on a day that is not a Business Day, the date for payment shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day, and, in the case of any payment accruing interest, interest thereon shall be payable for the period of such extension. All payments hereunder shall be made in Dollars.
Section 2.15
2.16
2.17
11.03
Sections 2.15
2.16
2.17
11.03
     (b) If at any time insufficient funds are received by and available to the Administrative Agent to pay fully all amounts of principal, interest and fees then due hereunder, such funds shall be applied (i) , to pay interest and fees then due hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of interest and fees then due to such parties, and (ii) , to pay principal then due hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of principal then due to such parties.
first
second
     (c) If any Lender shall, by exercising any right of set-off or counterclaim or otherwise, obtain payment in respect of any principal of or interest on any of the Obligations owing to it resulting in such Lender receiving payment of a greater proportion of the aggregate amount of such Obligations and accrued interest thereon than the proportion received by any other Lender, then the Lender receiving such greater proportion shall purchase (for cash at face value) participations in the Loans of, or other Obligations owing to, other Lenders to the extent necessary so that the benefit of all such payments shall be shared by the Lenders ratably in accordance with the aggregate amount of principal of and accrued interest on their respective Loans or other Obligations, as applicable; that (i) if any such participations are purchased and all or any portion of the payment giving rise thereto is recovered, such participations shall be rescinded and the purchase price restored to the extent of such recovery, without interest, and (ii) the provisions of this paragraph shall not be construed to apply to any payment made by the Borrower pursuant to and in accordance with the express terms of this Agreement or any payment obtained by a Lender as consideration for the assignment of or sale of a participation in any of its Loans to any assignee or participant, other than to the Guarantor, the Borrower or any other Subsidiary or Affiliate of the Guarantor (as to which the provisions of this paragraph shall apply). The Borrower and the Guarantor consent to the foregoing and agree, to the extent they may effectively do so under applicable law, that any Lender acquiring a participation pursuant to the foregoing arrangements may exercise against the Borrower and the Guarantor rights of set-off and counterclaim with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were a direct creditor of the Borrower or the Guarantor in the amount of such participation.
provided
 
     (d) Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from the Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders hereunder that the Borrower will not make such payment, the Administrative Agent may assume that the Borrower has made such payment on such date in accordance herewith and may, in reliance upon such assumption, distribute to the Lenders the amount due. In such event, if the Borrower has not in fact made such payment, then each of the Lenders severally agrees to repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand the amount so distributed to such Lender with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is distributed to it to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at the Federal Funds Effective Rate.
     (e) If any Lender shall fail to make any payment required to be made by it pursuant to or , then the Administrative Agent may, in its discretion (notwithstanding any contrary provision hereof), apply any amounts thereafter received by the Administrative Agent for the account of such Lender to satisfy such Lender's obligations under such Sections until all such unsatisfied obligations are fully paid.
Sections 2.05(b)
2.18(d)
     SECTION 2.19.   . (a) Any Lender claiming reimbursement or compensation from the Borrower under either of and for any losses, costs or other liabilities shall use reasonable efforts (including, without limitation, reasonable efforts to designate a different lending office of such Lender for funding or booking its Loans or to assign its rights and obligations hereunder to another of its offices, branches or affiliates) to mitigate the amount of such losses, costs and other liabilities, if such efforts can be made and such mitigation can be accomplished without such Lender suffering (i) any economic disadvantage for which such Lender does not receive full indemnity from the Borrower under this Agreement or (ii) otherwise be disadvantageous to such Lender.
Mitigation Obligations; Replacement of Lenders
Sections 2.15
2.17
     (b) In determining the amount of any claim for reimbursement or compensation under and , each Lender will use reasonable methods of calculation consistent with such methods customarily employed by such Lender in similar situations.
Sections 2.15
2.17
     (c) Each Lender will notify the Borrower either directly or through the Administrative Agent of any event giving rise to a claim under or promptly after the occurrence thereof which notice shall be accompanied by a certificate of such Lender setting forth in reasonable detail the circumstances of such claim.
Section 2.15
Section 2.17
     (d) If any Lender requests compensation under , or if the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to , or if any Lender defaults in its obligation to fund Loans hereunder, then the Borrower may, at its sole expense and effort, upon notice to such Lender and the Administrative Agent, require such Lender to assign and delegate, without recourse (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in ), all its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement to an assignee that shall assume such obligations (which assignee may be
Section 2.15
Section 2.17
Section 11.04
 
another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment); that (i) the Borrower shall have received the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent, which consent, shall not unreasonably be withheld, (ii) such Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Loans, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder, from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or the Borrower (in the case of all other amounts) and (iii) in the case of any such assignment resulting from a claim for compensation under or payments required to be made pursuant to , such assignment will result in a reduction in such compensation or payments. A Lender shall not be required to make any such assignment and delegation if, prior thereto, as a result of a waiver by such Lender or otherwise, the circumstances entitling the Borrower to require such assignment and delegation cease to apply.
provided
Section 2.15
Section 2.17
     SECTION 3.01.   . This Agreement shall not become effective until the date on which each of the following conditions is satisfied (or waived in accordance with ).
Conditions Precedent to the Effectiveness of this Agreement
Section 11.02
     (a) The Administrative Agent (or its counsel) shall have received from each party thereto either (i) a counterpart of this Agreement signed on behalf of such party or (ii) written evidence satisfactory to the Administrative Agent (which may include telecopy transmission of a signed signature page of this Agreement) that such party has signed a counterpart of this Agreement.
     (b) The Lenders, the Administrative Agent, the Arrangers and each other Person entitled to the payment of fees or the reimbursement or payment of expenses, pursuant hereto, shall have received all fees required to be paid by the Effective Date, and all expenses for which invoices have been presented on or before the Effective Date.
     (c) The Administrative Agent shall have received certified copies of the resolutions of the Board of Directors of each of the Guarantor and the Borrower approving this Agreement, and of all documents evidencing other necessary corporate action and governmental and regulatory approvals with respect to this Agreement.
     (d) The Administrative Agent shall have received from each of the Borrower and the Guarantor, to the extent generally available in the relevant jurisdiction, a copy of a certificate or certificates of the Secretary of State (or other appropriate public official) of the jurisdiction of its incorporation, dated reasonably near the Effective Date, (i) listing the charters of the Borrower or the Guarantor, as the case may be, and each amendment thereto on file in such office and certifying that such amendments are the only amendments to the Borrower's or the Guarantor's charter, as the case may be, on file in such office, and (ii) stating, in the case of the Borrower, that the Borrower is authorized to transact business under the laws of the jurisdiction of its place of incorporation, and, in
 
the case of the Guarantor, that the Guarantor is duly incorporated and in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its place of incorporation.
     (e) (i) The Administrative Agent shall have received a certificate or certificates of each of the Borrower and the Guarantor, signed on behalf of the Borrower and the Guarantor respectively, by the Secretary, an Assistant Secretary or a Responsible Officer thereof, dated the Effective Date, certifying as to (A) the absence of any amendments to the charter of the Borrower or the Guarantor, as the case may be, since the date of the certificates referred to in above, (B) a true and correct copy of the bylaws of each of the Borrower or the Guarantor, as the case may be, as in effect on the Effective Date, (C) the absence of any proceeding for the dissolution or liquidation of the Borrower or the Guarantor, as the case may be, (D) the truth, in all material respects, of the representations and warranties contained in the Credit Documents to which the Borrower or the Guarantor is a party, as the case may be, as though made on and as of the Effective Date, and (E) the absence, as of the Effective Date, of any Default or Event of Default; and (ii) each of such certifications shall be true.
paragraph (d)
     (f) The Administrative Agent shall have received a certificate of the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of each of the Guarantor and the Borrower certifying the names and true signatures of the officers of Guarantor or the Borrower, as the case may be, authorized to sign, and signing, this Agreement and the other Credit Documents to be delivered hereunder on or before the Effective Date.
     (g) The Administrative Agent shall have received from (a) Schiff Hardin LLP, counsel for the Guarantor and the Borrower, a favorable opinion, substantially in the form of hereto and as to such other matters as any Lender through the Administrative Agent may reasonably request and (b) Thelen Reid & Priest LLP, special counsel for the Guarantor and the Borrower, a favorable opinion, substantially in the form of hereto as to certain matters under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, as amended.
Exhibit B-1
Exhibit B-2
     SECTION 3.02.   . The obligation of each Lender to make any Loan (including the initial Loan) shall be subject to the satisfaction (or waiver in accordance with ) of each of the following conditions:
Conditions Precedent to Each Loan
Section 11.02
     (a) The representations and warranties of the Guarantor and the Borrower set forth in this Agreement (other than the representation and warranty set forth in ) shall be true and correct in all material respects on and as of the date of such Loan, except to the extent that such representations and warranties are specifically limited to a prior date, in which case such representations and warranties shall be true and correct in all material respects on and as of such prior date.
Section 4.01(f)
     (b) After giving effect to such Loan, such Loan will not result in the sum of the then Total Outstanding Principal exceeding the Aggregate Commitments.
     (c) Such Loan will comply with all other applicable requirements of , including, without limitation and , as applicable.
Article II
Sections 2.01
2.02
 
     (d) At the time of and immediately after giving effect to such Loan, no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing.
     (e) The Administrative Agent shall have timely received a Borrowing Request.
     Each Loan and the acceptance by the Borrower of the benefits thereof shall be deemed to constitute a representation and warranty by the Borrower on the date thereof as to the matters specified in , , and of this Section.
paragraphs (a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
     SECTION 4.01.   . Each of the Borrower and the Guarantor represents and warrants as follows:
Representations and Warranties of the Credit Parties
     (a) Each of the Borrower and the Guarantor is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and, in the case of the Borrower, authorized to transact business under the laws of the State of its incorporation, and, in the case of the Guarantor, in good standing under the laws of the State of its incorporation.
     (b) The execution, delivery and performance by each of the Credit Parties of the Credit Documents to which it is a party (i) are within such Credit Party's corporate powers, (ii) have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action, (iii) do not contravene (A) such Credit Party's charter or by-laws, as the case may be, or (B) any law, rule or regulation (including, without limitation, the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, as amended), or any material Contractual Obligation or legal restriction, binding on or affecting such Credit Party or any Material Subsidiary, as the case may be, and (iv) do not require the creation of any Lien on the property of such Credit Party or any Material Subsidiary under any Contractual Obligation binding on or affecting such Credit Party or any Material Subsidiary.
     (c) No authorization or approval or other action by, and no notice to or filing with, any Governmental Authority or other Person is required for the due execution, delivery and performance by any Credit Party of this Agreement or any other Credit Document to which any of them is a party, except for such as (i) have been obtained or made and that are in full force and effect or (ii) are not presently required under applicable law and have not yet been applied for.
     (d) Each Credit Document to which any Credit Party is a party is a legal, valid and binding obligation of such Credit Party, enforceable against such Credit Party in accordance with its terms, subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other laws affecting creditors' rights generally and subject to general principles of equity, regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law.
     (e) The consolidated balance sheet of the Guarantor and its Subsidiaries as at September 30, 2005, and the related statements of income and retained earnings of the
 
Guarantor and its Subsidiaries for the nine months then ended, copies of which have been made available or furnished to each Lender, fairly present (subject to year-end adjustments) the financial condition of the Guarantor and its Subsidiaries as at such date and the results of the operations of the Guarantor and its Subsidiaries for the period ended on such date, all in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied.
     (f) Since December 31, 2004, there has been no material adverse change in such condition or operations, or in the business, assets, operations, condition (financial or otherwise) or prospects of any of the Credit Parties or of Columbia.
     (g) There is no pending or threatened action, proceeding or investigation affecting such Credit Party before any court, governmental agency or other Governmental Authority or arbitrator that (taking into account the exhaustion of appeals) would have a Material Adverse Effect, or that (i) purports to affect the legality, validity or enforceability of this Agreement or any promissory notes executed pursuant hereto, or (ii) seeks to prohibit the ownership or operation, by any Credit Party or any of their respective Material Subsidiaries, of all or a material portion of their respective businesses or assets.
     (h) The Guarantor and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, do not hold or carry Margin Stock having an aggregate value in excess of 10% of the value of their consolidated assets, and no part of the proceeds of any Loan hereunder will be used to buy or carry any Margin Stock.
     (i) No ERISA Event has occurred, or is reasonably expected to occur, with respect to any Plan that could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
     (j) Schedule B (Actuarial Information) to the 2004 Annual report (Form 5500 Series) for each Plan, copies of which have been filed with the Internal Revenue Service and made available or furnished to each Lender, is complete and accurate and fairly presents the funding status of such Plan, and since the date of such Schedule B there has been no adverse change in such funding status which may reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
     (k) Neither the Guarantor nor any ERISA Affiliate has incurred or is reasonably expected to incur any Withdrawal Liability to any Multiemployer Plan which may reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
     (l) Neither the Guarantor nor any ERISA Affiliate has been notified by the sponsor of a Multiemployer Plan that such Multiemployer Plan is in reorganization or has been terminated, within the meaning of Title VI of ERISA, and no Multiemployer Plan is reasonably expected to be in reorganization or to be terminated, within the meaning of Title IV of ERISA, in either such case, that could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
     (m) No Credit Party is an "investment company", or a company "controlled" by an "investment company", within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
     (n) The Guarantor is a "public utility holding company" within the meaning of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, as amended, registered in compliance therewith.
     (o) Each Credit Party has filed all tax returns (Federal, state and local) required to be filed by it and has paid or caused to be paid all taxes due for the periods covered thereby, including interest and penalties, except for any such taxes, interest or penalties which are being contested in good faith and by proper proceedings and in respect of which such Credit Party has set aside adequate reserves for the payment thereof in accordance with GAAP.
     (p) Each Credit Party and its Subsidiaries are and have been in compliance with all laws (including, without limitation, the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, as amended, and all Environmental Laws), except to the extent that any failure to be in compliance, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
     (q) No Subsidiary of any Credit Party is party to, or otherwise bound by, any agreement that prohibits such Subsidiary from making any payments, directly or indirectly, to such Credit Party, by way of dividends, advances, repayment of loans or advances, reimbursements of management or other intercompany charges, expenses and accruals or other returns on investment, or any other agreement that restricts the ability of such Subsidiary to make any payment, directly or indirectly, to such Credit Party, other than prohibitions and restrictions permitted to exist under .
Section 6.01(e)
     (r) The information, exhibits and reports furnished by the Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries to the Administrative Agent or to any Lender in connection with the negotiation of, or compliance with, the Credit Documents, taken as a whole, do not contain any material misstatement of fact and do not omit to state a material fact or any fact necessary to make the statements contained therein not misleading in light of the circumstances made.
     (s) The outstanding amount of the Loans when aggregated with all other outstanding short-term debt does not exceed $2,500,000,000 at any time prior to the delivery to the Administrative Agent of evidence reasonably satisfactory to it that the terms of the Order Authorizing Various External and Intrasystem Financing and Related Transactions; Reservations of Jurisdiction, dated December 30, 2003 and issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission (Release No. 35-27789; File No. 70-10169), are no longer in effect.
 
     SECTION 5.01.   . So long as any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder or any principal of any Loan, or interest or fees payable hereunder shall remain unpaid, each of the Credit Parties will, unless the Required Lenders shall otherwise consent in writing:
Affirmative Covenants
     (a) . Comply, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to comply, in all material respects with all applicable laws, rules, regulations and orders (including, without limitation, any of the foregoing relating to employee health and safety or public utilities and all Environmental Laws), unless the failure to so comply could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; without limiting the foregoing, each of the Credit Parties will obtain and maintain in full force and effect all orders required under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, as amended, to be obtained and maintained for consummation of the Transactions and the performance of their respective obligations hereunder (including the borrowing and repayment of funds, and the guaranty of all obligations relating thereto).
Compliance with Laws, Etc
     (b) . Maintain and preserve, and cause each Material Subsidiary to maintain and preserve, all of its material properties which are used in the conduct of its business in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted, if the failure to do so could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Maintenance of Properties, Etc
     (c) . Pay and discharge, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to pay and discharge, before the same shall become delinquent, (i) all taxes, assessments and governmental charges or levies imposed upon it or upon its property, and (ii) all legal claims which, if unpaid, might by law become a lien upon its property; , , that neither any Credit Party nor any of its Subsidiaries shall be required to pay or discharge any such tax, assessment, charge or claim which is being contested in good faith and by proper proceedings and as to which appropriate reserves are being maintained.
Payment of Taxes, Etc
provided
however
     (d) . Maintain, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to maintain, insurance with responsible and reputable insurance companies or associations in such amounts and covering such risks as is usually obtained by companies engaged in similar businesses of comparable size and financial strength and owning similar properties in the same general areas in which such Credit Party or such Subsidiary operates, or, to the extent such Credit Party or Subsidiary deems it reasonably prudent to do so, through its own program of self-insurance.
Maintenance of Insurance
     (e) . Preserve and maintain, and cause each Material Subsidiary to preserve and maintain, its corporate existence, rights (charter and statutory) and franchises, except as otherwise permitted under this Agreement; that that no such Person shall be required to preserve any right or franchise with respect to which the Board of Directors of such Person has determined that the preservation thereof is no longer desirable in the conduct of the business of such Person and that the loss thereof is not disadvantageous in any material respect to any Credit Party or the Lenders.
Preservation of Corporate Existence, Etc
provided
 
     (f) . At any reasonable time and from time to time, permit the Administrative Agent or any of the Lenders or any agents or representatives thereof, on not less than five Business Days' notice (which notice shall be required only so long as no Default shall be occurred and be continuing), to examine and make copies of and abstracts from the records and books of account of, and visit the properties of, such Credit Party or any of its Subsidiaries, and to discuss the affairs, finances and accounts of the Credit Parties and their respective Subsidiaries with any of their respective officers and with their independent certified public accountants; subject, however, in all cases to the imposition of such conditions as the affected Credit Party or Subsidiary shall deem necessary based on reasonable considerations of safety and security and provided that so long as no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, each Lender will be limited to one visit each year.
Visitation Rights
     (g) . (i) Keep, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to keep, proper books of record and account, in which full and correct entries shall be made of all material financial transactions and the assets and business of each of the Credit Parties and each of their respective Subsidiaries, and (ii) maintain, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to maintain, a system of accounting established and administered in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied.
Keeping of Books
     (h) . Deliver to the Administrative Agent for distribution to the Lenders:
Reporting Requirements
     (i) as soon as available and in any event within 60 days after the end of each of the first three quarters of each fiscal year of the Guarantor (or, if earlier, concurrently with the filing thereof with the Securities and Exchange Commission or any national securities exchange in accordance with applicable law or regulation), balance sheets of the Guarantor and its Consolidated Subsidiaries in comparative form as of the end of such quarter and statements of income and retained earnings of the Guarantor and its Consolidated Subsidiaries for the period commencing at the end of the previous fiscal year of the Guarantor and ending with the end of such quarter, each prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied, subject to normal year-end audit adjustments, certified by the chief financial officer of the Guarantor.
     (ii) as soon as available and in any event within 90 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Guarantor (or, if earlier, concurrently with the filing thereof with the Securities and Exchange Commission or any national securities exchange in accordance with applicable law or regulation), a copy of the audit report for such year for the Guarantor and its Consolidated Subsidiaries containing financial statements for such year prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied as reported on by independent certified public accountants of recognized national standing acceptable to the Required Lenders, which audit was conducted by such accounting firm in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards;
     (iii) concurrently with the delivery of financial statements pursuant to and above or the notice relating thereto contemplated by the final sentence of this
clauses (i)
(ii)
 
, a certificate of a senior financial officer of each of the Guarantor and the Borrower (A) to the effect that no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing (or, if any Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, describing the same in reasonable detail and describing the action that the Guarantor or the Borrower, as the case may be, has taken and proposes to take with respect thereto), and (B) in the case of the certificate relating to the Guarantor, setting forth calculations, in reasonable detail, establishing Guarantor's compliance, as at the end of such fiscal quarter, with the financial covenant contained in ;
Section 5.01(h)
Article VII
     (iv) as soon as possible and in any event within five days after the occurrence of each Default or Event of Default continuing on the date of such statement, a statement of the chief financial officer of the Borrower setting forth details of such Event of Default or event and the action which the Borrower has taken and proposes to take with respect thereto;
     (v) promptly after the sending or filing thereof, copies of all reports which the Guarantor sends to its stockholders, and copies of all reports and registration statements (other than registration statements filed on Form S-8 and filings under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, as amended) that the Guarantor, the Borrower or any Subsidiary of the Guarantor or the Borrower, files with the Securities and Exchange Commission;
     (vi) promptly and in any event within 10 days after the Guarantor knows or has reason to know that any material ERISA Event has occurred, a statement of the chief financial officer of the Borrower describing such ERISA Event and the action, if any, which the Guarantor or any affected ERISA Affiliate proposes to take with respect thereto;
     (vii) promptly and in any event within two Business Days after receipt thereof by the Guarantor (or knowledge being obtained by the Guarantor of the receipt thereof by any ERISA Affiliate), copies of each notice from the PBGC stating its intention to terminate any Plan or to have a trustee appointed to administer any Plan;
     (viii) promptly and in any event within five Business Days after receipt thereof by the Guarantor (or knowledge being obtained by the Guarantor of the receipt thereof by any ERISA Affiliate) from the sponsor of a Multiemployer Plan, a copy of each notice received by the Guarantor or any ERISA Affiliate concerning (A) the imposition of material Withdrawal Liability by a Multiemployer Plan, (B) the reorganization or termination, within the meaning of Title IV of ERISA, of any Multiemployer Plan or (C) the amount of liability incurred, or which may be incurred, by the Guarantor or any ERISA Affiliate in connection with any event described in or above;
clause (A)
(B)
     (ix) promptly after the Guarantor has knowledge of the commencement thereof, notice of any actions, suits and proceedings before any court or governmental department, commission, board, bureau, agency or instrumentality, domestic or foreign, affecting the Guarantor or any Material Subsidiary of the type described in ;
Section 4.01(g)
 
     (x) promptly after the Guarantor or the Borrower knows of any change in the rating of the Index Debt by S&P or Moody's, a notice of such changed rating; and
     (xi) such other information respecting the condition or operations, financial or otherwise, of the Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries as any Lender through the Administrative Agent may from time to time reasonably request.
     Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Credit Parties' obligations to deliver the documents or information required under any of , and above shall be deemed to be satisfied upon (x) the relevant documents or information being publicly available on the Guarantor's website or other publicly available electronic medium (such as EDGAR) within the time period required by such clause, and (y) the delivery by the Guarantor or the Borrower of notice to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, within the time period required by such clause, that such documents or information are so available.
clauses (i)
(ii)
(v)
     (i) . Use the proceeds of the Loans hereunder for working capital and other general corporate purposes, including to provide liquidity support for commercial paper issued by the Borrower.
Use of Proceeds
     (j) . At all times maintain ratings by both Moody's and S&P with respect to the Index Debt.
Ratings
     SECTION 6.01.   . So long as any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder or any principal of any Loan, or interest or fees payable hereunder shall remain unpaid, no Credit Party will, without the written consent of the Required Lenders:
Negative Covenants
     (a) . Create or suffer to exist, or permit any of its Subsidiaries (other than a Utility Subsidiary) to create or suffer to exist, any lien, security interest, or other charge or encumbrance (collectively, "") upon or with respect to any of its properties, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, or collaterally assign for security purposes, or permit any of its Subsidiaries (other than a Utility Subsidiary) to so assign any right to receive income in each case to secure or provide for or guarantee the payment of Debt for Borrowed Money of any Person, without in any such case effectively securing, prior to or concurrently with the creation, issuance, assumption or guaranty of any such Debt for Borrowed Money, the Obligations (together with, if the Guarantor shall so determine, any other Debt for Borrowed Money of or guaranteed by the Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries ranking equally with the Loans and then existing or thereafter created) equally and ratably with (or prior to) such Debt for Borrowed Money; , , that the foregoing restrictions shall not apply to or prevent the creation or existence of:
Limitation on Liens
Liens
provided
however
     (i) (A) Liens on any property acquired, constructed or improved by the Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries (other than a Utility Subsidiary) after the date of this Agreement that are created or assumed prior to, contemporaneously with, or within 180
 
days after, such acquisition or completion of such construction or improvement, to secure or provide for the payment of all or any part of the purchase price of such property or the cost of such construction or improvement; or (B) in addition to Liens contemplated by and below, Liens on any property existing at the time of acquisition thereof, that the Liens shall not apply to any property theretofore owned by the Guarantor or any such Subsidiary other than, in the case of any such construction or improvement, (1) unimproved real property on which the property so constructed or the improvement is located, (2) other property (or improvements thereon) that is an improvement to or is acquired or constructed for specific use with such acquired or constructed property (or improvement thereof), and (3) any rights and interests (A) under any agreements or other documents relating to, or (B) appurtenant to, the property being so constructed or improved or such other property;
clauses (ii)
(iii)
provided
     (ii) existing Liens on any property or indebtedness of a corporation that is merged with or into or consolidated with any Credit Party or any of its Subsidiaries; that such Lien was not created in contemplation of such merger or consolidation;
provided
     (iii) Liens on any property or indebtedness of a corporation existing at the time such corporation becomes a Subsidiary of any Credit Party; that such Lien was not created in contemplation of such occurrence;
provided
     (iv) Liens to secure Debt for Borrowed Money of a Subsidiary of a Credit Party to a Credit Party or to another Subsidiary of the Guarantor;
     (v) Liens in favor of the United States of America, any State, any foreign country or any department, agency or instrumentality or political subdivision of any such jurisdiction, to secure partial, progress, advance or other payments pursuant to any contract or statute or to secure any Debt for Borrowed Money incurred for the purpose of financing all or any part of the purchase price of the cost of constructing or improving the property subject to such Liens, including, without limitation, Liens to secure Debt for Borrowed Money of the pollution control or industrial revenue bond type;
     (vi) Liens on any property (including any natural gas, oil or other mineral property) to secure all or part of the cost of exploration, drilling or development thereof or to secure Debt for Borrowed Money incurred to provide funds for any such purpose;
     (vii) Liens existing on the date of this Agreement;
     (viii) Liens for the sole purposes of extending, renewing or replacing in whole or in part Debt for Borrowed Money secured by any Lien referred to in the foregoing through , inclusive, or this ; , , that the principal amount of Debt for Borrowed Money secured thereby shall not exceed the principal amount of Debt for Borrowed Money so secured at the time of such extension, renewal or replacement (which, for purposes of this limitation as it applies to a synthetic lease, shall be deemed to be (x) the lessor's original cost of the property subject to such lease at the time of extension, renewal or replacement, (y) the aggregate amount of
clauses (i)
(vii)
clause (viii)
provided
however
less
 
all prior payments under such lease allocated pursuant to the terms of such lease to reduce the principal amount of the lessor's investment, and borrowings by the lessor, made to fund the original cost of the property), and that such extension, renewal or replacement shall be limited to all or a part of the property or indebtedness which secured the Lien so extended, renewed or replaced (plus improvements on such property);
     (ix) Liens on any property or assets of a Project Financing Subsidiary, or on any Capital Stock in a Project Financing Subsidiary, in either such case, that secure only a Project Financing or a Contingent Guaranty that supports a Project Financing; or
     (x) Any Lien, other than a Lien described in any of the foregoing through , inclusive, to the extent that it secures Debt for Borrowed Money, or guaranties thereof, the outstanding principal balance of which at the time of creation of such Lien, when added to the aggregate principal balance of all Debt for Borrowed Money secured by Liens incurred under this then outstanding, does not exceed 5% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets.
clauses (i)
(ix)
clause (x)
     If at any time any Credit Party or any of its Subsidiaries shall create, issue, assume or guaranty any Debt for Borrowed Money secured by any Lien and the first paragraph of this requires that the Loans be secured equally and ratably with such Debt for Borrowed Money, the Borrower shall promptly deliver to the Administrative Agent and each Lender:
Section 6.01(a)
     (1) a certificate of a duly authorized officer of the Borrower stating that the covenant contained in the first paragraph of this has been complied with; and
Section 6.01(a)
     (2) an opinion of counsel acceptable to the Required Lenders to the effect that such covenant has been complied with and that all documents executed by any Credit Party or any of its Subsidiaries in the performance of such covenant comply with the requirements of such covenant.
     (b) . Merge or consolidate with or into, or, except in a transaction permitted under of this Section, convey, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of (whether in one transaction or in a series of transactions) all or substantially all of its assets (whether now owned or hereafter acquired) to any Person, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to do so, except that:
Mergers, Etc
paragraph (c)
     (i) any Subsidiary of the Guarantor (other than the Borrower) may merge or consolidate with or transfer assets to or acquire assets from any other Subsidiary of the Guarantor, that in the case of any such merger, consolidation, or transfer of assets to which NIPSCO or Columbia is a party, the continuing or surviving Person shall be a Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of the Guarantor; and
provided
     (ii) the Borrower may merge or consolidate with, or transfer assets to, or acquire assets from, any other Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of the Guarantor, provided that in the case of any such merger or consolidation to which the Borrower is not the surviving Person, or transfer of all or substantially all of the assets of the Borrower to any
 
other Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of the Guarantor, immediately after giving effect thereto, (A) no Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing (determined, for purposes of compliance with after giving effect to such transaction, on a pro forma basis as if such transaction had occurred on the last day of the Guarantor's fiscal quarter then most recently ended) and (B) such surviving Person or transferee, as applicable, shall have assumed all of the obligations of the Borrower under and in respect of the Credit Documents by written instrument satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and its counsel in their reasonable discretion, accompanied by such opinions of counsel and other supporting documents as they may reasonably require; and
Article VII
     (iii) any Subsidiary of the Guarantor may merge into the Guarantor or the Borrower or transfer assets to the Borrower or the Guarantor, that in the case of any merger or consolidation of the Borrower into the Guarantor or transfer of all or substantially all of the assets of the Borrower to the Guarantor, immediately after giving effect thereto, (A) no Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing (determined, for purposes of compliance with after giving effect to such transaction, on a pro forma basis as if such transaction had occurred on the last day of the Guarantor's fiscal quarter then most recently ended) and (B) the Guarantor shall have assumed all of the obligations of the Borrower under and in respect of the Credit Documents by written instrument satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and its counsel in their reasonable discretion, accompanied by such opinions of counsel and other supporting documents as they may reasonably require; and
provided
Article VII
     (iv) the Guarantor or any Subsidiary of the Guarantor may merge, or consolidate with or transfer all or substantially all of its assets to any other Person; that in each case under this , immediately after giving effect thereto, (A) no Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing (determined, for purposes of compliance with after giving effect to such transaction, on a pro forma basis as if such transaction had occurred on the last day of the Guarantor's fiscal quarter then most recently ended); (B) in the case of any such merger, consolidation or transfer of assets to which the Borrower is a party, the Borrower shall be the continuing or surviving corporation; (C) in the case of any such merger, consolidation, or transfer of assets to which NIPSCO or Columbia is a party, NIPSCO or Columbia, as the case may be, shall be the continuing or surviving corporation and shall be a Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of the Guarantor; (D) in the case of any such merger, consolidation or transfer of assets to which the Guarantor is a party, the Guarantor shall be the continuing or surviving corporation; and (E) the Index Debt shall be rated at least BBB- by S&P and at least Baa3 by Moody's.
provided
clause (iii)
Article VII
     (c) . Sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of, or permit any of their respective Subsidiaries to sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of (other than in connection with a transaction authorized by of this Section) any substantial part of its assets; that the foregoing shall not prohibit any such sale, conveyance, lease, transfer or other disposition that (i) constitutes realization on a Lien permitted to exist under ; or (ii) (A) (1) is for a price not materially less than the fair market value of such assets, (2) would not materially impair the ability of any Credit Party to perform its obligations under this Agreement and (3) together with
Sales, Etc. of Assets
paragraph (b)
provided
Section 6.01(a)
 
all other such sales, conveyances, leases, transfers and other dispositions, would have no Material Adverse Effect, or (B) would not result in the sale, lease, transfer or other disposition, in the aggregate, of more than 10% of the consolidated total assets of the Guarantor and its Subsidiaries, determined in accordance with GAAP, on September 30, 2004.
     (d) . (i) Terminate, or permit any ERISA Affiliate to terminate, any Plan so as to result in a Material Adverse Effect or (ii) permit to exist any occurrence of any Reportable Event (as defined in Title IV of ERISA), or any other event or condition, that presents a material (in the reasonable opinion of the Required Lenders) risk of such a termination by the PBGC of any Plan, if such termination could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Compliance with ERISA
     (e) . Permit any of its Subsidiaries (other than, in the case of the Guarantor, the Borrower) to enter into or permit to exist any agreement that by its terms prohibits such Subsidiary from making any payments, directly or indirectly, to such Credit Party by way of dividends, advances, repayment of loans or advances, reimbursements of management or other intercompany charges, expenses and accruals or other returns on investment, or any other agreement that restricts the ability of such Subsidiary to make any payment, directly or indirectly, to such Credit Party; that the foregoing shall not apply to prohibitions and restrictions (i) imposed by applicable law, (ii) (A) imposed under an agreement in existence on the date of this Agreement, and (B) described on of the Existing Agreement, (iii) existing with respect to a Subsidiary on the date it becomes a Subsidiary that are not created in contemplation thereof (but shall apply to any extension or renewal of, or any amendment or modification expanding the scope of, any such prohibition or restriction), (iv) contained in agreements relating to the sale of a Subsidiary pending such sale, that such prohibitions or restrictions apply only to the Subsidiary that is to be sold and such sale is permitted hereunder, (v) imposed on a Project Financing Subsidiary in connection with a Project Financing, or (vi) that could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Certain Restrictions
provided
Schedule 6.01(e)
provided
       So long as any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder or any principal of any Loan, or interest or fees payable hereunder shall remain unpaid, the Guarantor shall maintain a Debt to Capitalization Ratio of not more than 0.70 to 1.00.
     SECTION 8.01.   . If any of the following events ("") shall occur and be continuing:
Events of Default
Events of Default
 
     (a) The Borrower shall fail to pay any principal of any Loan when the same becomes due and payable or shall fail to pay any interest, fees or other amounts hereunder within three days after when the same becomes due and payable; or
     (b) Any representation or warranty made by any Credit Party in any Credit Document or by any Credit Party (or any of its officers) in connection with this Agreement shall prove to have been incorrect in any material respect when made; or
     (c) Any Credit Party shall fail to perform or observe any term, covenant or agreement contained in , , , , or ; or
Sections 5.01(e)
5.01(f)
5.01(h)
5.01(i)
6.01
Article VII
     (d) Any Credit Party shall fail to perform or observe any term, covenant or agreement contained in any Credit Document on its part to be performed or observed (other than one identified in , or above) if the failure to perform or observe such other term, covenant or agreement shall remain unremedied for thirty days after written notice thereof shall have been given to the Borrower by the Administrative Agent or any Lender; or
paragraph (a)
(b)
(c)
     (e) The Guarantor, the Borrower or any of their respective Subsidiaries shall fail to pay any principal of or premium or interest on any Indebtedness (excluding Non-Recourse Debt) which is outstanding in a principal amount of at least $50,000,000 in the aggregate (but excluding the Loans) of the Guarantor, the Borrower or such Subsidiary, as the case may be, when the same becomes due and payable (whether by scheduled maturity, required prepayment, acceleration, demand or otherwise), and such failure shall continue after the applicable grace period, if any, specified in the agreement or instrument relating to such Indebtedness; or any other event shall occur or condition shall exist under any agreement or instrument relating to any such Indebtedness and shall continue after the applicable grace period, if any, specified in such agreement or instrument, if the effect of such event or condition is to accelerate, or to permit the acceleration of, the scheduled maturity of such Indebtedness; or any such Indebtedness shall be declared to be due and payable, or required to be prepaid (other than by a regularly scheduled required prepayment), prior to the stated maturity thereof; or
     (f) Any Credit Party shall generally not pay its debts as such debts become due, or shall admit in writing its inability to pay its debts generally, or shall make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors; or any proceeding shall be instituted by or against any Credit Party seeking to adjudicate it a bankrupt or insolvent, or seeking liquidation, winding up, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, protection, relief, or composition of it or its debts under any law relating to bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization or relief of debtors, or seeking the entry of an order for relief or the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official for it or for any substantial part of its property and, in the case of any such proceeding instituted against any Credit Party (but not instituted by any Credit Party), either such proceeding shall remain undismissed or unstayed for a period of 60 days, or any of the actions sought in such proceeding (including, without limitation, the entry of an order for relief against, or the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official for, any Credit Party or for any substantial part of its property) shall occur; or any Credit Party shall take
 
any corporate action to authorize any of the actions set forth above in this ; or
paragraph (f)
     (g) One or more Subsidiaries of the Guarantor (other than the Borrower) in which the aggregate sum of (i) the amounts invested by the Guarantor and its other Subsidiaries in the aggregate, by way of purchases of Capital Stock, Capital Leases, loans or otherwise, and (ii) the amount of recourse, whether contractual or as a matter of law (but excluding Non-Recourse Debt), available to creditors of such Subsidiary or Subsidiaries against the Guarantor or any of its other Subsidiaries, is $100,000,000 or more (collectively, "") shall generally not pay their respective debts as such debts become due, or shall admit in writing their respective inability to pay their debts generally, or shall make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors; or any proceeding shall be instituted by or against Substantial Subsidiaries seeking to adjudicate them bankrupt or insolvent, or seeking liquidation, winding up, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, protection, relief, or composition of them or their respective debts under any law relating to bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization or relief of debtors, or seeking the entry of an order for relief or the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official for them or for any substantial part of their respective property and, in the case of any such proceeding instituted against Substantial Subsidiaries (but not instituted by the Guarantor or any Subsidiary of the Guarantor), either such proceeding shall remain undismissed or unstayed for a period of 60 days, or any of the actions sought in such proceeding (including, without limitation, the entry of an order for relief against, or the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official for, the Substantial Subsidiaries or for any substantial part of their respective property) shall occur; or Substantial Subsidiaries shall take any corporate action to authorize any of the actions set forth above in this ; or
Substantial Subsidiaries
paragraph (g)
     (h) Any judgment or order for the payment of money in excess of $50,000,000 shall be rendered against the Borrower, the Guarantor or any of its other Subsidiaries and either (i) enforcement proceedings shall have been commenced by any creditor upon such judgment or order or (ii) there shall be any period of 30 consecutive days during which a stay of enforcement of such judgment or order, by reason of a pending appeal or otherwise, shall not be in effect; or
     (i) Any ERISA Event shall have occurred with respect to a Plan and, 30 days after notice thereof shall have been given to the Guarantor or the Borrower by the Administrative Agent, (i) such ERISA Event shall still exist and (ii) the sum (determined as of the date of occurrence of such ERISA Event) of the Insufficiency of such Plan and the Insufficiency of any and all other Plans with respect to which an ERISA Event shall have occurred and then exist (or, in the case of a Plan with respect to which an ERISA Event described in through of the definition of ERISA Event shall have occurred and then exist, the liability related thereto) is equal to or greater than $10,000,000 (when aggregated with , and of this Section), and a Material Adverse Effect could reasonably be expected to occur as a result thereof; or
clauses (c)
(f)
paragraphs (j)
(k)
(l)
     (j) The Guarantor or any ERISA Affiliate shall have been notified by the sponsor of a Multiemployer Plan that it has incurred Withdrawal Liability to such
 
Multiemployer Plan in an amount which, when aggregated with all other amounts required to be paid to Multiemployer Plans by the Guarantor and its ERISA Affiliates as Withdrawal Liability (determined as of the date of such notification), exceeds $10,000,000 or requires payments exceeding $10,000,000 (in either case, when aggregated with , and of this Section), and a Material Adverse Effect could reasonably be expected to occur as a result thereof; or
per annum
paragraphs (i)
(k)
(l)
     (k) The Guarantor or any ERISA Affiliate shall have been notified by the sponsor of a Multiemployer Plan that such Multiemployer Plan is in reorganization or is being terminated, within the meaning of Title IV of ERISA, if as a result of such reorganization or termination the aggregate annual contributions of the Guarantor and its ERISA Affiliates to all Multiemployer Plans which are then in reorganization or being terminated have been or will be increased over the amounts contributed to such Multiemployer Plans for the respective plan year of each such Multiemployer Plan immediately preceding the plan year in which the reorganization or termination occurs by an amount exceeding $10,000,000 (when aggregated with , and of this Section), and a Material Adverse Effect could reasonably be expected to occur as a result thereof; or
paragraphs (i)
(j)
(l)
     (l) The Guarantor or any ERISA Affiliate shall have committed a failure described in Section 302(f)(1) of ERISA and the amount determined under Section 302(f)(3) of ERISA is equal to or greater than $10,000,000 (when aggregated with , and of this Section), and a Material Adverse Effect could reasonably be expected to occur as a result thereof; or
paragraphs (i)
(j)
(k)
     (m) Any provision of the Credit Documents shall be held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable against any Credit Party purported to be bound thereby, or any Credit Party shall so assert in writing; or
     (n) Any Change of Control shall occur;
then, and in any such event, the Administrative Agent (i) shall at the request, or may with the consent, of the Required Lenders, by notice to the Borrower, declare the Commitment of each Lender hereunder to be terminated, whereupon the same shall forthwith terminate, and (ii) shall at the request or with the consent of the Required Lenders, by notice to the Borrower, declare all amounts payable under this Agreement to be forthwith due and payable, whereupon all such amounts shall become and be forthwith due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or further notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrower; that in the event of an actual or deemed entry of an order for relief with respect to any Credit Party under the Federal Bankruptcy Code, (1) the Commitment of each Lender, hereunder shall automatically be terminated and (2) all such amounts shall automatically become and be due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or any notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrower.
provided
 
     SECTION 9.01.   . (a) Each of the Lenders hereby irrevocably appoints the Administrative Agent as its agent and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms hereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto.
The Administrative Agent
     (b) The Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Administrative Agent, and such bank and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to and generally engage in any kind of business with the any Credit Party or any of such Credit Party's Subsidiaries or other Affiliates thereof as if it were not the Administrative Agent hereunder.
     (c) The Administrative Agent shall not have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth herein. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, (i) the Administrative Agent shall not be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties, regardless of whether a Default has occurred and is continuing, (ii) the Administrative Agent shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, except discretionary rights and powers expressly contemplated hereby that the Administrative Agent is required to exercise in writing by the Required Lenders, and (iii) except as expressly set forth herein, the Administrative Agent shall not have any duty to disclose, and shall not be liable for the failure to disclose, any information relating to the Borrower, the Guarantor or any of its other Subsidiaries that is communicated to or obtained by the bank serving as Administrative Agent or any of its Affiliates in any capacity. The Administrative Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it with the consent or at the request of the Required Lenders (or, if applicable, all of the Lenders) or in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct. The Administrative Agent shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Default unless and until written notice thereof is given to the Administrative Agent by the Borrower or a Lender, and the Administrative Agent shall not be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (1) any statement, warranty or representation made in or in connection with this Agreement, (2) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered hereunder or in connection herewith, (3) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth herein, (4) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of this Agreement or any other agreement, instrument or document, or (5) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in or elsewhere herein, other than to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent and the conformity thereof to such express requirement.
Article III
     (d) The Administrative Agent shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing believed by it to be genuine and to have been
 
signed or sent by the proper Person. The Administrative Agent also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to be made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon. The Administrative Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for a Credit Party) independent accountants and other experts selected by it and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts.
     (e) The Administrative Agent may perform any and all its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through any one or more sub-agents appointed by the Administrative Agent. The Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent may perform any and all its duties and exercise its rights and powers through their respective Related Parties. The exculpatory provisions of the preceding paragraphs shall apply to any such sub-agent and to the Related Parties of the Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent, and shall apply to their respective activities in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein as well as activities as Administrative Agent.
     (f) Subject to the appointment and acceptance of a successor Administrative Agent as provided in this paragraph, the Administrative Agent may resign at any time by notifying the Lenders and the Credit Parties. Upon any such resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right, with the consent of the Borrower (which consent shall not unreasonably be withheld), to appoint a successor. If no successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Administrative Agent gives notice of its resignation, then the retiring Administrative Agent may, on behalf of the Lenders, appoint a successor Administrative Agent which shall be a bank with an office in New York, New York, or an Affiliate of any such bank, in any event having total assets in excess of $500,000,000 and who shall serve until such time, if any, as an Agent shall have been appointed as provided above. Upon the acceptance of its appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder by a successor, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring Administrative Agent, and the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder. The fees payable by the Borrower to a successor Administrative Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and such successor. After the Administrative Agent's resignation hereunder, the provisions of this Article and shall continue in effect for its benefit in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by it while it was acting as Administrative Agent.
Section 11.03
     (g) Each Lender acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each Lender also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Agreement, any related agreement or any document furnished hereunder or thereunder.
 
     (h) No Lender identified on the signature pages of this Agreement as a "Lead Arranger" or "Book Runner", or that is given any other title hereunder other than "Administrative Agent", shall have any right, power, obligation, liability, responsibility or duty under this Agreement other than those applicable to all Lenders as such. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, no Lender so identified as a "Lead Arranger" or that is given any other title hereunder, shall have, or be deemed to have, any fiduciary relationship with any Lender. Each Lender acknowledges that it has not relied, and will not rely, on the Lenders so identified in deciding to enter into this Agreement or in taking or not taking action hereunder.
     SECTION 10.01.   . (a) The Guarantor, as primary obligor and not merely as a surety, hereby irrevocably, absolutely and unconditionally guarantees to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders and each of their respective successors, endorsees, transferees and assigns (each a "" and collectively, the "") the prompt and complete payment by the Borrower, as and when due and payable, of the Obligations, in accordance with the terms of the Credit Documents. The provisions of this are sometimes referred to hereinafter as the "".
The Guaranty
Beneficiary
Beneficiaries
Article X
Guaranty
     (b) The Guarantor hereby guarantees that the Obligations will be paid strictly in accordance with the terms of the Credit Documents, regardless of any law now or hereafter in effect in any jurisdiction affecting any such terms or the rights of the Beneficiaries with respect thereto. The obligations and liabilities of the Guarantor under this Guaranty shall be absolute and unconditional irrespective of: (i) any lack of validity or enforceability of any of the Obligations or any Credit Document, or any delay, failure or omission to enforce or agreement not to enforce, or the stay or enjoining, by order of court, by operation of law or otherwise, of the exercise of any right with respect to the foregoing (including, in each case, without limitation, as a result of the insolvency, bankruptcy or reorganization of any Beneficiary, the Borrower or any other Person); (ii) any change in the time, manner or place of payment of, or in any other term in respect of, all or any of the Obligations, or any other amendment or waiver of or consent to any departure from the Credit Documents or any agreement or instrument relating thereto; (iii) any exchange or release of, or non-perfection of any Lien on or in any collateral, or any release, amendment or waiver of, or consent to any departure from, any other guaranty of, or agreement granting security for, all or any of the Obligations; (iv) any claim, set-off, counterclaim, defense or other rights that the Guarantor may have at any time and from time to time against any Beneficiary or any other Person, whether in connection with this Transaction or any unrelated transaction; or (v) any other circumstance that might otherwise constitute a defense available to, or a discharge of, the Borrower or any other guarantor or surety in respect of the Obligations or the Guarantor in respect hereof.
     (c) The Guaranty provided for herein (i) is a guaranty of payment and not of collection; (ii) is a continuing guaranty and shall remain in full force and effect until the
 
Commitments have been terminated and the Obligations have been paid in full in cash; and (iii) shall continue to be effective or shall be reinstated, as the case may be, if at any time any payment, or any part thereof, of any of the Obligations is rescinded or must otherwise be returned by any Beneficiary upon or as a result of the insolvency, bankruptcy, dissolution, liquidation or reorganization of the Borrower or otherwise, all as though such payment had not been made.
     (d) The obligations and liabilities of the Guarantor hereunder shall not be conditioned or contingent upon the pursuit by any Beneficiary or any other Person at any time of any right or remedy against the Borrower or any other Person that may be or become liable in respect of all or any part of the Obligations or against any collateral security or guaranty therefor or right of setoff with respect thereto.
     (e) The Guarantor hereby consents that, without the necessity of any reservation of rights against the Guarantor and without notice to or further assent by the Guarantor, any demand for payment of any of the Obligations made by any Beneficiary may be rescinded by such Beneficiary and any of the Obligations continued after such rescission.
     (f) The Guarantor's obligations under this Guaranty shall be unconditional, irrespective of any lack of capacity of the Borrower or any lack of validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement or any other Credit Document, and this Guaranty shall not be affected in any way by any variation, extension, waiver, compromise or release of any or all of the Obligations or of any security or guaranty from time to time therefor.
     (g) The obligations of the Guarantor under this Guaranty shall not be reduced, limited, impaired, discharged, deferred, suspended or terminated by any proceeding or action, voluntary or involuntary, involving the bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership, reorganization, marshalling of assets, assignment for the benefit of creditors, composition with creditors, readjustment, liquidation or arrangement of the Borrower or any similar proceedings or actions, or by any defense the Borrower may have by reason of the order, decree or decision of any court or administrative body resulting from any such proceeding or action. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Guarantor's liability shall extend to all amounts and obligations that constitute the Obligations and would be owed by the Borrower, but for the fact that they are unenforceable or not allowable due to the existence of any such proceeding or action.
     SECTION 10.02.   . (a) The Guarantor hereby unconditionally waives: (i) promptness and diligence; (ii) notice of or proof of reliance by the Administrative Agent or the Lenders upon this Guaranty or acceptance of this Guaranty; (iii) notice of the incurrence of any Obligation by the Borrower or the renewal, extension or accrual of any Obligation or of any circumstances affecting the Borrower's financial condition or ability to perform the Obligations; (iv) notice of any actions taken by the Beneficiaries or the Borrower or any other Person under any Credit Document or any other agreement or instrument relating thereto; (v) all other notices, demands and protests, and all other formalities of every kind in connection with the enforcement of the Obligations, of the obligations of the Guarantor hereunder or under any other Credit
Waivers
 
Document, the omission of or delay in which, but for the provisions of this might constitute grounds for relieving the Guarantor of its obligations hereunder; (vi) any requirement that the Beneficiaries protect, secure, perfect or insure any Lien or any property subject thereto, or exhaust any right or take any action against the Borrower or any other Person or any collateral; and (vii) each other circumstance, other than payment of the Obligations in full, that might otherwise result in a discharge or exoneration of, or constitute a defense to, the Guarantor's obligations hereunder.
Article X
     (b) No failure on the part of any Beneficiary to exercise, and no delay in exercising, any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder or under any Credit Document or any other agreement or instrument relating thereto shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder or under any Credit Document or any other agreement or instrument relating thereto preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, remedy, power or privilege. This Guaranty is in addition to and not in limitation of any other rights, remedies, powers and privileges the Beneficiaries may have by virtue of any other instrument or agreement heretofore, contemporaneously herewith or hereafter executed by the Guarantor or any other Person or by applicable law or otherwise. All rights, remedies, powers and privileges of the Beneficiaries shall be cumulative and may be exercised singly or concurrently. The rights, remedies, powers and privileges of the Beneficiaries under this Guaranty against the Guarantor are not conditional or contingent on any attempt by the Beneficiaries to exercise any of their rights, remedies, powers or privileges against any other guarantor or surety or under the Credit Documents or any other agreement or instrument relating thereto against the Borrower or against any other Person.
     (c) The Guarantor hereby acknowledges and agrees that, until the Commitments have been terminated and all of the Obligations have been paid in full in cash, under no circumstances shall it be entitled to be subrogated to any rights of any Beneficiary in respect of the Obligations performed by it hereunder or otherwise, and the Guarantor hereby expressly and irrevocably waives, until the Commitments have been terminated and all of the Obligations have been paid in full in cash, (i) each and every such right of subrogation and any claims, reimbursements, right or right of action relating thereto (howsoever arising), and (ii) each and every right to contribution, indemnification, set-off or reimbursement, whether from the Borrower or any other Person now or hereafter primarily or secondarily liable for any of the Obligations, and whether arising by contract or operation of law or otherwise by reason of the Guarantor's execution, delivery or performance of this Guaranty.
     (d) The Guarantor represents and warrants that it has established adequate means of keeping itself informed of the Borrower's financial condition and of other circumstances affecting the Borrower's ability to perform the Obligations, and agrees that neither the Administrative Agent nor any Lender shall have any obligation to provide to the Guarantor any information it may have, or hereafter receive, in respect of the Borrower.
 
     SECTION 11.01.   . Except in the case of notices and other communications expressly permitted to be given by telephone, all notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by telecopy, as follows:
Notices
     (c) if to any Lender, to it at its address (or telecopy number) set forth in its Administrative Questionnaire.
     Any party hereto may change its address or telecopy number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto. All notices and other communications given to any party hereto in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed to have been given on the date of receipt.
     SECTION 11.02.   . (a) No failure or delay by the Administrative Agent, or any Lender in exercising any right or power hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right or power, or any abandonment or discontinuance of steps to enforce such a right or power, preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right or power. The rights and remedies of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders hereunder are cumulative and are not exclusive of any rights or remedies that they would otherwise have. No waiver of any provision of this Agreement or consent to any departure by any Credit Party therefrom shall in any event be
Waivers; Amendments
 
effective unless the same shall be permitted by of this Section, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the purpose for which given. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, no Loan shall be construed as a waiver of any Default, regardless of whether the Administrative Agent or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of such Default at the time.
paragraph (b)
     (b) Neither this Agreement nor any provision hereof may be waived, amended or modified except pursuant to an agreement or agreements in writing entered into by the Borrower, the Guarantor and the Required Lenders or by the Borrower, the Guarantor and the Administrative Agent with the consent of the Required Lenders; that if the representations or covenants under the Existing Agreement are amended, waived or otherwise modified pursuant to an agreement or agreements in writing permitted under the Existing Agreement, then the analogous representations and covenants under this Agreement shall automatically be amended, waived or modified to the same extent; and, , that no such agreement referred to in this shall (i) increase the Commitment of any Lender without the written consent of such Lender, (ii) reduce the principal amount of any Loan or reduce the rate of interest thereon, or reduce any fees or other amounts payable hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender affected thereby, (iii) postpone the scheduled date of payment of the principal amount of any Loan, or any interest thereon, or any fees or other amounts payable hereunder, or reduce the amount of, waive or excuse any such payment, or postpone the scheduled date of expiration of any Commitment, without the written consent of each Lender affected thereby, (iv) change or in a manner that would alter the pro rata sharing of payments required thereby, without the written consent of each Lender, (v) release the Guarantor from its obligations under the Guaranty without the written consent of each Lender, (vi) waive any of the conditions precedent to the effectiveness of this Agreement set forth in without the written consent of each Lender, or (vii) change any of the provisions of this Section or the definition of "Required Lenders" or any other provision hereof specifying the number or percentage of Lenders required to waive, amend or modify any rights hereunder or make any determination or grant any consent hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender; , , that no such agreement shall amend, modify or otherwise affect the rights or duties of the Administrative Agent hereunder without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent.
provided
provided
further
Section 11.02(b)
Section 2.18(b)
(c)
Section 3.01
provided
further
     SECTION 11.03.   . (a) The Borrower shall pay (i) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent and its Affiliates, including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel for the Administrative Agent in connection with the initial syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein, the preparation and administration of this Agreement or any amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions hereof (whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby shall be consummated), and (ii) all reasonable out of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent or any Lender, including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for the Administrative Agent or any Lender, in connection with the enforcement or protection of its rights in connection with this Agreement, including its rights under this Section, or in connection with the Loans made, including in connection with any workout, restructuring or negotiations in respect thereof.
Expenses; Indemnity; Damage Waiver
 
     (b) The Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent and each Lender, and each Related Party of any of the foregoing Persons (each such Person being called an "") against, and hold each Indemnitee harmless from, any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and related reasonable expenses, including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for any Indemnitee, incurred by or asserted against any Indemnitee arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of (i) the execution or delivery of this Agreement or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the performance by the parties hereto of their respective obligations hereunder or the consummation of the Transactions or any other transaction contemplated hereby, (ii) any Loan or the use of the proceeds therefrom, (iii) any actual or alleged presence or release of Hazardous Materials on or from any property now, in the past or hereafter owned or operated by the Borrower, the Guarantor or any of its other Subsidiaries, or any Environmental Liability related in any way to the Borrower, the Guarantor or any of its other Subsidiaries, or (iv) any actual or prospective claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, whether based on contract, tort or any other theory and regardless of whether any Indemnitee is a party thereto; that such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee.
Indemnitee
provided
     (c) To the extent that the Borrower fails to pay any amount required to be paid by it to the Administrative Agent under or of this Section, each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent such Lender's Applicable Percentage (determined as of the time that the applicable unreimbursed expense or indemnity payment is sought) of such unpaid amount; that the unreimbursed expense or indemnified loss, claim, damage, liability or related expense, as the case may be, was incurred by or asserted against the Administrative Agent in its capacity as such.
paragraph (a)
(b)
provided
     (d) To the extent permitted by applicable law, each party hereto shall not assert, and hereby waives, any claim against each other party, on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages) arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of, this Agreement or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the Transactions or any Loan or the use of the proceeds thereof.
     (e) All amounts due under this Section shall be payable not later than 20 days after written demand therefor.
     SECTION 11.04.   . (a) The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby; that, except to the extent permitted pursuant to , no Credit Party may assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of each Lender (and any attempted assignment or transfer by a Credit Party without such consent shall be null and void). Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, shall be construed to confer upon any Person (other than the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby and, to the extent
Successors and Assigns
provided
Section 6.01(b)(ii), (iii) or(iv)
 
expressly contemplated hereby, the Related Parties of each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement.
     (b) Any Lender may assign to one or more assignees all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans and other Obligations at the time owing to it); that (i) except in the case of an assignment to a Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender, each of the Administrative Agent, and, so long as no Event of Default is continuing, the Borrower must give its prior written consent to such assignment (which consent, in the case of the Administrative Agent and the Borrower, shall not unreasonably be withheld), (ii) except in the case of an assignment to a Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender or an assignment of the entire remaining amount of the assigning Lender's Commitment, the amount of the Commitment of the assigning Lender subject to each such assignment (determined as of the date the Assignment and Acceptance with respect to such assignment is delivered to the Administrative Agent) shall not be less than $5,000,000 unless each of the Administrative Agent and, so long as no Event of Default shall be continuing, the Borrower otherwise consent, (iii) each partial assignment shall be made as an assignment of a proportionate part of all the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, (iv) the parties to each assignment shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent an Assignment and Acceptance, together with a processing and recordation fee of $3,500, and (v) the assignee, if it shall not be a Lender, shall deliver to the Administrative Agent an Administrative Questionnaire. Upon acceptance and recording pursuant to of this Section, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Acceptance, the assignee thereunder shall be a party hereto and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Acceptance, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement, and the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Acceptance, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Acceptance covering all of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of , , and ). Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this paragraph shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with of this Section.
provided
paragraph (d)
Sections 2.15
2.16
2.17
11.03
paragraph (e)
     (c) The Administrative Agent, acting for this purpose as an agent of the Borrower, shall maintain at one of its offices in The City of New York a copy of each Assignment and Acceptance delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Commitment of, and principal amount of the Loans and other Obligations owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the ""). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive (absent manifest error), and the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the contrary.
Register
 
     (d) Upon its receipt of a duly completed Assignment and Acceptance executed by an assigning Lender and an assignee, the assignee's completed Administrative Questionnaire (unless the assignee shall already be a Lender hereunder), the processing and recordation fee referred to in of this Section and any written consent to such assignment required by of this Section, the Administrative Agent shall accept such Assignment and Acceptance and record the information contained therein in the Register. No assignment shall be effective for purposes of this Agreement unless it has been recorded in the Register as provided in this paragraph.
paragraph (b)
paragraph (b)
     (e) Any Lender may, without the consent of the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, sell participations to one or more banks or other entities (a "") in all or a portion of such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans owing to it); that (i) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (ii) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations and (iii) the Borrower, the Guarantor and the Administrative Agent shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement. Any agreement or instrument pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce this Agreement and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement; that such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, modification or waiver described in the first proviso to that affects such Participant. Subject to of this Section, the Borrower agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of , and to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to of this Section.
Participant
provided
provided
Section 11.02(b)
paragraph (f)
Sections 2.15
2.16
2.17
paragraph (b)
     (f) A Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under or than the applicable Lender would have been entitled to receive with respect to the participation sold to such Participant, unless the sale of the participation to such Participant is made with the Borrower's prior written consent. A Participant that would be a Foreign Lender if it were a Lender shall not be entitled to the benefits of unless the Borrower is notified of the participation sold to such Participant and such Participant agrees, for the benefit of the Borrower, to comply with as though it were a Lender.
Section 2.15
2.17
Section 2.17
Section 2.17(e)
     (g) Any Lender may at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement to a Federal Reserve Bank, and this Section shall not apply to any such pledge or assignment of a security interest; that no such pledge or assignment of a security interest shall release a Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such assignee for such Lender as a party hereto.
provided
     (h) Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, each Lender (the "") shall have the right, without the prior consent of the Borrower, to grant to a special purpose funding vehicle (the "") that is utilized by such Granting
Granting Lender
SPFV
 
Lender, identified as such in writing from time to time by the Granting Lender to the Administrative Agent and the Borrower, the option to provide all or any part of any Loan that such Granting Lender would otherwise be obligated to make hereunder, that (i) nothing herein shall constitute a commitment to make any Loan by any SPFV or shall relieve its Granting Lender of any obligation of such Granting Lender hereunder or under any other Credit Document, except to the extent that such SPFV actually funds all or part of any Loan such Granting Lender is obligated to make hereunder, (ii) if an SPFV elects not to exercise such option or otherwise fails to provide all or any part of such Loan, such Granting Lender shall be obligated to make such Loan pursuant to the terms hereof, (iii) the Granting Lender hereby indemnifies and holds the Administrative Agent harmless from and against any liability, loss, cost or expense (including for or in respect of Taxes) arising out of such identification and grant or any transaction contemplated thereby, and (iv) the provisions of this shall not impose any increased cost or liability on any Credit Party. The making of a Loan by an SPFV hereunder shall utilize the Commitment of its Granting Lender to the same extent, and as if, such Loan were made by such Granting Lender. Each party hereto agrees that no SPFV shall be liable for any payment under this Agreement or any other Credit Document for which a Lender would otherwise be liable, for so long as, and to the extent that, its Granting Lender makes such payment. As to any Loans or portions of Loans made by it, each SPFV shall have all the rights that a Lender making such Loans or such portions of Loans would have had under this Agreement and otherwise; that (1) its voting rights under this Agreement shall be exercised solely by its Granting Lender and (2) its Granting Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such SPFV's obligations under this Agreement, including its obligations in respect of the Loans or portions of Loans made by it. No additional promissory notes, if any, shall be required to evidence the Loans or portions of Loans made by a SPFV; and the Granting Lender shall be deemed to hold its promissory note, if any, as agent for its SPFV to the extent of the Loans or portions of Loans funded by such SPFV. Each Granting Lender shall act as administrative agent for its SPFV and give and receive notices and other communications on its behalf. Any payments for the account of any SPFV shall be paid to its Granting Lender as administrative agent for such SPFV, and neither a Credit Party nor the Administrative Agent shall be responsible for any Granting Lender's application of such payments. In furtherance of the foregoing, each party hereto hereby agrees that, until the date that is one year and one day after the payment in full of all outstanding senior Debt of any SPFV, it shall not institute against, or join any other Person in instituting against, such SPFV any bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, insolvency or liquidation proceedings (or any similar proceedings) under the laws of the United States of America or any State thereof. In addition, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this , an SPFV may (1) (A) with notice to, but without the prior written consent of, the Administrative Agent or the Borrower and without paying any processing fee therefor, assign all or any portion of its interest in any Loan to its Granting Lender or (B) with the consent (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld) of the Administrative Agent and (if no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing) the Borrower, but without paying any processing fee therefor, assign all or any portion of its interest in any Loan to any financial institution providing liquidity or credit facilities to or for the account of such SPFV to fund the Loans funded
provided
paragraph (h)
provided
paragraph (h)
 
by such SPFV or to support any securities issued by such SPFV to fund such Loans, and (2) disclose, on a confidential basis, any non-public information relating to Loans funded by it to any rating agency, commercial paper dealer or provider of a surety, guaranty or credit or liquidity enhancement to such SPFV. The Borrower shall not be required to pay, or to reimburse any Granting Lender for, its expenses relating to any SPFV identified by such Granting Lender pursuant to this .
paragraph (h)
     SECTION 11.05.   . All covenants, agreements, representations and warranties made by the Borrower and the Guarantor herein and in the certificates or other instruments delivered in connection with or pursuant to this Agreement shall be considered to have been relied upon by the other parties hereto and shall survive the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the making of any Loans. The provisions of , , , and and shall survive and remain in full force and effect regardless of the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, the repayment of the Loans, the expiration or termination of the Commitments or the termination of this Agreement or any provision hereof.
Survival
Sections 2.15
2.16
2.17
10.01(c)(iii)
11.03
Article IX
     SECTION 11.06.   . This Agreement may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto on different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract. This Agreement, the commitment letter relating to the credit facility provided hereby (to the extent provided therein) and any separate letter agreements with respect to fees payable to the Administrative Agent constitute the entire contract among the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersede any and all previous agreements and understandings, oral or written, relating to the subject matter hereof. Except as provided in , this Agreement shall become effective when it shall have been executed by the Administrative Agent and when the Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts hereof which, when taken together, bear the signatures of each of the other parties hereto, and thereafter shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Agreement by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement.
Counterparts; Integration; Effectiveness
Section 3.01
     SECTION 11.07.   . Any provision of this Agreement held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability without affecting the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions hereof; and the invalidity of a particular provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate such provision in any other jurisdiction.
Severability
     SECTION 11.08.   . If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, each Lender or any Affiliate thereof is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final) at any time held and other indebtedness at any time owing by such Lender to or for the credit or the account of any Credit Party against any of and all the Obligations now or hereafter existing under this Agreement held by such Lender, irrespective of whether or not such Lender shall have made any demand under this Agreement and although such Obligations may be unmatured. The rights of each Lender under this Section
Right of Setoff
 
are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of setoff) which such Lender may have.
     SECTION 11.09.   . (a) This Agreement shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law; Jurisdiction; Consent to Service of Process
     (b) Each Credit Party hereby irrevocably and unconditionally submits, for itself and its property, to the nonexclusive jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of the State of New York sitting in New York County and of the United States District Court of the Southern District of New York, and any appellate court from any thereof, in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement, or for recognition or enforcement of any judgment, and each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that all claims in respect of any such action or proceeding may be heard and determined in such New York State or, to the extent permitted by law, in such Federal court. Each of the parties hereto agrees that a final judgment in any such action or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by law. Nothing in this Agreement shall affect any right that the Administrative Agent or any Lender may otherwise have to bring any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement against any Credit Party or its properties in the courts of any jurisdiction.
     (c) Each Credit Party hereby irrevocably and unconditionally waives, to the fullest extent it may legally and effectively do so, any objection which it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement in any court referred to in of this Section. Each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the defense of an inconvenient forum to the maintenance of such action or proceeding in any such court.
paragraph (b)
     (d) Each party to this Agreement irrevocably consents to service of process in the manner provided for notices in . Nothing in this Agreement will affect the right of any party to this Agreement to serve process in any other manner permitted by law.
Section 11.01
     SECTION 11.10.   . EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER THEORY). EACH PARTY HERETO (A) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PARTY HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PARTY WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO HAVE BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION.
WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL
 
     SECTION 11.11.   . Article and Section headings and the Table of Contents used herein are for convenience of reference only, are not part of this Agreement and shall not affect the construction of, or be taken into consideration in interpreting, this Agreement.
Headings
     SECTION 11.12.   . Each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (a) to its and its Affiliates' directors, officers, employees and agents, including accountants, legal counsel and other advisors (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential), (b) to the extent requested by any regulatory authority, (c) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process, (d) to any other party to this Agreement, (e) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or any suit, action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or the enforcement of rights hereunder, (f) subject to an agreement containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section, to any assignee of or Participant in, or any prospective assignee of or Participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement, (g) with the consent of the Borrower or (h) to the extent such Information (i) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section or (ii) becomes available to the Administrative Agent or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than a Credit Party or any Subsidiary of a Credit Party. For the purposes of this Section, "" means all information received from any Credit Party or any Subsidiary of a Credit Party relating to a Credit Party or any Subsidiary of a Credit Party or its respective businesses, other than any such information that is available to the Administrative Agent or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure by any Credit Party or any Subsidiary of a Credit Party; that, in the case of information received from any Credit Party or any Subsidiary of a Credit Party after the Effective Date, such information is clearly identified at the time of delivery as confidential. Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information.
Confidentiality
Information
provided
     SECTION 11.13.   . Each Lender hereby notifies the Credit Parties that pursuant to the requirements of the USA PATRIOT Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the ""), it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Credit Parties, which information includes the name and address of the Credit Parties and other information that will allow such Lender to identify the Credit Parties in accordance with the Act.
USA PATRIOT Act
Act
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed by their respective authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
Names, Addresses, Allocation of Aggregate Commitment, and Applicable Percentages of Banks

 
Exhibit 10.2
 
 
 
     Prior to January 1, 2004, Columbia Energy Group sponsored the Savings Restoration Plan for Columbia Energy Group for eligible executives of Columbia Energy Group and certain affiliated companies. Effective January 1, 2004, NiSource Inc., the parent company of Columbia Energy Group, assumed sponsorship of the Savings Restoration Plan for Columbia Energy Group, renamed the Plan the Savings Restoration Plan for NiSource Inc. and Affiliates, and broadened the Plan to include all employees of NiSource Inc. and Affiliated Companies.
     The purpose of the Plan is to provide for the payment of savings restoration benefits to employees of NiSource Inc. and Affiliated Companies, whose benefits under the Basic Plan are subject to the Limits or affected by deferrals into the DCP, so that the total savings plan benefits of such employees shall be determined on the same basis as is applicable to all other employees of the Company. The Plan is adopted solely (1) for the purpose of providing benefits to Participants in the Plan and their Beneficiaries in excess of the Limits imposed on qualified plans by Code Section 401(a)(17) and any other Code Sections, by restoring benefits to such Plan Participants and Beneficiaries that are no longer available under the Basic Plan as a result of the Limits, and (2) for the purpose of restoring benefits to Plan Participants and Beneficiaries that are no longer available under the Basic Plan as a result of the Participant's deferrals into the DCP. The Plan was amended and restated effective January 1, 2004, and amended effective January 1, 2005. The Plan is now further amended and restated effective January 1, 2005 as set forth below
 
to comply with Code Section 409A, and guidance and regulations thereunder, with respect to benefits earned under the Plan from and after January 1, 2005. Benefits under the Plan earned and vested prior to January 1, 2005 shall be administered without giving effect to Code Section 409A, and guidance and regulations thereunder. The provisions of the Plan as set forth herein apply only to Participants who actively participate in the Plan on or after January 1, 2005. Any Participant who retired or otherwise terminated employment with the Company and all Affiliated Companies prior to January 1, 2005 shall have his or her rights determined under the provision of the Plan as it existed when his or her employment relationship terminated.
     2.1 "Affiliated Company" means an affiliate of NiSource Inc.
Affiliated Company
.
     2.2 "Annual Addition" for any Participant means the sum, in any Plan Year, of:
Annual Addition
.
     For purposes of the Plan, the determination of a Participant's Annual Addition shall be made without regard to the Limits.
     2.3 . "Basic Plan" means the NiSource Inc. Retirement Savings Plan, as amended and restated effective January 1, 2002, and as further amended from time to time.
Basic Plan
     2.4 "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
.
 
     2.5 "Committee" means the NiSource Inc. and Affiliates Retirement Plan Administrative and Investment Committee.
Committee
.
     2.6 "Company" means NiSource Inc.
Company
.
     2.7 "DCP" means the Columbia Energy Group Deferred Compensation Plan on or prior to December 31, 2003, and, thereafter, the NiSource Inc. Executive Deferred Compensation Plan.
DCP
.
     2.8 "Disability" means a condition that (a) causes a Participant to be unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months, (b) causes a Participant, by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment that can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months, to receive income replacement benefits for a period of not less than three months under an accident and health plan covering employees of the Company or an Affiliated Company or (c) causes a Participant to be eligible to receive Social Security disability payments.
Disability
.
     2.9 "Employee" means any individual who is employed by an Employer on a basis that involves payment of salary, wages or commissions.
Employee
.
     2.10 "Employer" means the Company or an Affiliated Company whose Employees participate in the Plan.
Employer
.
     2.11 "ERISA" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
ERISA
.
 
     2.12 "Interest" means the average of the prime rates of interest charged as of the last business day of a month, determined under procedures established by the Committee.
Interest
.
     2.13 "Limits" means the limits imposed on tax qualified retirement plans by Code Sections 415 and 401(a)(17) and any other Code Sections.
Limits
.
     2.14 "Participant" means any Employee who is participating in the Plan in accordance with its provisions.
Participant
.
     2.15 "Plan" means the Savings Restoration Plan for NiSource Inc. and Affiliates (formerly known as the Savings Restoration Plan for the Columbia Energy Group, and before that as the Thrift Restoration Plan for the Columbia Energy Group), as set forth herein.
Plan
.
     2.16 "Plan Year" means the 12-month period commencing each January 1 and ending the following December 31.
Plan Year
.
     2.17 "Post-2004 Benefit" means the portion of a Participant's Supplemental Savings Account equal to the excess of (1) the balance of the Participant's Supplemental Savings Account determined as of a Participant's date of separation from service with the Company and all Affiliated Companies after December 31, 2004 over (2) the Pre-2005 Benefit, to which the Participant would be entitled under the Plan if he voluntarily separated from service without cause as of such date and received a full payment of benefits from the Plan on the earliest possible date allowed under the Plan following his separation from service.
Post-2004 Benefit
.
     2.18 "Pre-2005 Benefit" means the portion of a Participant's Savings Account determined as of December 31, 2004, adjusted to reflect Interest credited to such balance from and after such date.
Pre-2005 Benefit
.
 
     2.19 "Supplemental Savings Account" means the sum of credits accrued under Article IV on behalf of a Participant, adjusted to reflect Interest credited to the Account, and reduced by any withdrawals under Article V.
Supplemental Savings Account
.
     2.20 "Unforeseeable Emergency" means a severe financial hardship to a Participant resulting from an illness or accident of the Participant, the Participant's spouse or a dependent (as defined in Code Section 152(a)), of the Participant, loss of the Participant's property due to casualty or other similar extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances arising as a result of events beyond the control of the Participant. The amount distributed with respect to an Unforeseeable Emergency shall not exceed the amount necessary to satisfy the Emergency, plus amounts necessary to pay taxes reasonably anticipated as a result of the distribution, after taking into account the extent to which such hardship is or may be relieved through reimbursement or compensation by insurance or otherwise, or by liquidation of the Participant's assets (to the extent the liquidation of such assets would not itself cause severe financial hardship).
Unforeseeable Emergency
.
     3.1 . Any Employee who is not a Participant in the Plan on December 31, 2004, who is participating in the Basic Plan and (i) whose Compensation in a Plan Year will exceed the Limits, or (ii) who has deferrals in the DCP excluded for purposes of benefit allocations in the Basic Plan, shall be eligible to become a Participant in the Plan as of January 1 of such Plan Year. Any Participant in the Plan on December 31, 2004 shall continue as a Participant after that date. If an Employee who was not expected to be eligible to become a Participant in a given Plan Year subsequently qualifies because his or her Compensation exceeds
Eligibility
 
the Limits for that Plan Year, or because he or she becomes eligible for, or begins to participate in, the DCP, such Employee shall be eligible to participate in the Plan as soon as practicable after this determination has been made or deferrals begin.
     3.2 . The Committee shall inform each Employee of his or her eligibility to participate in the Plan as soon as practicable but before the earliest date such Employee's participation could become effective.
Notice of Eligibility to Participants
     3.3 . In order to become a Participant, each eligible Employee must sign a written agreement with his or her Employer providing for a reduction of his or her Compensation and a corresponding direction of Employer contributions or Participant Pre-tax Contributions that would normally be made to the Basic Plan, except for the Limits or deferrals into the DCP, to be credited to his or her Supplemental Savings Account under the Plan, to the extent necessary to satisfy the Limits with respect to the Basic Plan or deferrals into the DCP.
Method of Becoming a Participant
     A Participant in the Plan as of December 31, 2004 who remains a Participant in the Plan as of January 1, 2005 shall deliver to the Committee the written agreement referenced in the preceding paragraph with respect to his or her Compensation earned from and after January 1, 2006 no later than December 31, 2005. An Employee who becomes a Participant on or after January 1, 2005 shall deliver the aforementioned written agreement to the Committee within 30 days after the date the Participant first becomes eligible to participate, and such agreement shall be effective with respect to Compensation related to services to be performed subsequent to the election; provided that such a Participant shall not be considered first eligible if, on the date he or she becomes a Participant, he or she participates in any other nonqualified account balance
 
plan that is subject to Code Section 409A, maintained by the Company or an Affiliated Company. If an Employee referred to in the preceding sentence does not deliver the aforementioned written agreement to the Committee within such 30-day period, he or she shall be entitled to deliver to the Committee a written agreement of the type referenced in the preceding paragraph with respect to his or her Compensation earned from and after the first day of the Plan Year next following the Plan Year in which the written agreement is delivered. Any election made pursuant to a written agreement, delivered pursuant to the preceding sentences of this paragraph, shall continue in effect until revoked by a Participant by notice delivered to the Committee no later than the last day of the Plan Year immediately preceding the first day of the Plan Year in which such election is to become effective.
     3.4 . A Participant shall remain a Participant so long as his or her Supplemental Savings Account has not been fully distributed to him or her.
Continuation of Participation
     4.1 . A Supplemental Savings Account shall be established for each Participant. The amounts to be credited to a Participant's Supplemental Savings Account shall be determined under procedures established by the Committee and shall consist of:
Supplemental Savings Account
     A Participant's Supplemental Savings Account shall be reduced by any withdrawals made under Article V.
 
     4.2 . The amount of Employer credits for a Participant shall equal (a) minus (b) below:
Employer Credits
     4.3 . Any Participant who (1) during the 2003 and/or 2004 Plan Years had a Matching Contribution allocated to his Matching Contribution Account under the Basic Plan that was less than the maximum Matching Contribution available under the Basic Plan, (2) authorized After-tax Contributions and/or Pre-tax Contributions under the Basic Plan equal to at least 6% of his Compensation for such Plan Year(s), (3) commenced employment with an Employer prior to January 1, 2002 and was still employed by an Employer on January 1, 2005 and (4) participated in the Account Balance Option of the NiSource Inc. and Northern Indiana Public Service Company Pension Plan Provisions Pertaining to Salaried and Non Exempt Employees, the NiSource Inc. Subsidiary Pension Plan or the Bay State Gas Company Pension Plan, as applicable, shall be eligible for an additional Employer credit hereunder. The additional Employer credit shall be calculated as the difference between (i) the Matching Contributions that would have been allocated to the Participant's Matching Contribution Account under the Basic Plan during the 2003 and/or 2004 Plan Year(s) if his or her total After-tax Contributions, if any, and Pre-tax Contributions under the Basic Plan for such Plan Year(s) had been contributed evenly over each pay period throughout the Plan Year(s) and (ii) the Matching Contribution
Special Employer Credits
 
actually allocated to the Participant's Matching Contribution Account under the Basic Plan for such Plan Year(s).
     The additional Employer credit, plus interest (calculated using a rate equal to 4.5% from January 1, 2005 to the date the additional Employer credit is credited to his or her Supplemental Savings Account as provided herein) shall be credited to the Participant's Supplemental Savings Account in accordance with Section 4.1. The additional Employer credit shall be credited to his or her Supplemental Savings Account as soon as administratively practicable after September 1, 2005, but in any event no later than December 31, 2005.
     Except where inconsistent with this Section 4.3, the additional Employer credit shall be subject to all provisions of the Plan applicable to Employer credits.
     4.4 . The amount of Participant credits for a Participant shall equal (a) minus (b) below:
Participant Credits
     4.5 .
Interest Credits
 
     5.1 . This section applies only to a Pre-2005 Benefit.
Pre-2005 Benefit
 
     5.2 . A Participant shall be entitled to withdraw all or any portion of his or her Post-2004 Benefit, as he or she may request in a direction delivered to the Committee, in the case of an Unforeseeable Emergency.
Post-2004 Benefit
     5.3 . Any In-Service Withdrawal under this Article V shall be subject to the following provisions:
Limitations on In-Service Withdrawals
 
     This suspension shall not affect a Participant's participation in the Basic Plan nor the basis for determining the Employer contributions or Participant Pre-tax Contributions under the Basic Plan.
     6.1 . A Participant's participation in the Plan shall terminate at separation from service with the Company and all Affiliated Companies for any reason, including Disability or death.
Termination of Participation
     6.2 . Upon his or her separation from service, a Participant, his or her spouse, or his or her Beneficiary or legal representative shall be entitled to 100% of the Participant's Supplemental Savings Account credited with Interest, if applicable, through the calendar month preceding the date payment is made to the Participant (or to his or her spouse, legal representative or Beneficiary in the case of his or her incapacity or death).
Benefits at Termination of Participation
     6.3 .
Method and Time of Payment
 
 
 
 
     A Participant shall be deemed to be a Specified Employee for purposes of this subparagraph (iv) if he or she is in job category C2 or above with respect to the Company or the Affiliated Company that employs him or her; provided that if at any time the total number of Employees in job category C2 and above is less than 50, a Specified Employee shall include any person who meets the definition of a Key Employee set forth in Code Section 416(i) without reference to paragraph (5). A Participant shall be deemed to be a Specified Employee with respect to a calendar year if he is a Specified Employee on September 30th of the preceding calendar year. If a Specified Employee will receive payments hereunder in the form of installments or an annuity, the first payment made as of the date six months after the date of the Participant's separation from service with the Company and all Affiliated Companies
 
shall be a lump sum, paid as soon as practicable after the end of such six-month period, that includes all payments that would otherwise have been made during such six-month period. From and after the end of such six month period, any such installment or annuity payments shall be made pursuant to the terms of the applicable installment or annuity form of payment.
     The Plan shall be administered by the Committee.
     While the Company intends to maintain the Plan in conjunction with the Basic Plan, the Company, or the Officer Nomination and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company, reserves the right to amend the Plan at any time and from time to time, or to terminate it at any time for any reason; provided, however, that no amendment or termination of the Plan shall impair or alter such right to a benefit that would have arisen under the Plan as it read before the effective date of such amendment or termination to or with respect to any Employee who has become a Participant in the Plan before the effective date of such amendment or termination or with respect to his or her Beneficiary. Upon termination of the Plan, distribution of Plan benefits shall be made to Participants, surviving spouses and beneficiaries in the manner and at the time described in Article VI of the Plan. No additional benefits shall be earned after termination of the Plan other than the crediting of Interest until the date of distribution of a Participant's Supplemental Savings Account.
 
     9.1 . The terms used in the Plan that are defined in the Basic Plan shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Basic Plan unless otherwise defined in the Plan.
Definitions
     9.2 . Participants and Beneficiaries shall be unsecured general creditors, with no secured or preferential right to any assets of the Company, any other Employer, or any other party for payment of benefits under the Plan. Obligations of the Company and each other Employer under the Plan shall be an unfunded and unsecured promise to pay money in the future.
Unsecured General Creditor
     9.3 .
Income Tax Payout
 
 
     9.4 . Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all terms and conditions of the Basic Plan applicable to a Basic Plan benefit shall also be applicable to a benefit payable hereunder. Any Basic Plan benefit shall be paid solely in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Basic Plan and nothing in the Plan shall operate or be construed in any way to modify, amend or affect the terms and provisions of the Basic Plan.
General Conditions
     9.5 . Nothing contained in the Plan shall constitute a guaranty by the Company or any other Employer or any other entity or person that the assets of the Company or any other Employer shall be sufficient to pay any benefit hereunder.
No Guaranty of Benefits
     9.6 . No Participant or Beneficiary shall have any right to a benefit under the Plan except in accordance with the terms of the Plan. Establishment of the Plan shall not be construed to give any Participant or Beneficiary the right to be retained in the service of the Company or any other Employer.
No Enlargement of Employee Rights
     9.7 . No interest of any person or entity in, or right to receive a benefit under, the Plan shall be subject in any manner to sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, attachment, garnishment, or other alienation or encumbrance of any kind; nor may such interest or right to receive a benefit be taken, either voluntarily or involuntarily, for the satisfaction of the debts of, or other obligations or claims against, such person or entity, including claims for alimony, support, separate maintenance, and claims in bankruptcy proceedings. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the Supplemental Savings Account of any Participant shall be subject to and payable in the amount determined in accordance with any qualified domestic relations order,
Spendthrift Provision
 
as that term is defined in Section 206(d)(3) of ERISA. The Committee shall provide for payment of such portion of a Supplemental Savings Account to an alternate payee (as defined in Section 206(d)(3) of ERISA) as soon as administratively possible following receipt of such order. Any federal, state or local income tax associated with such payment shall be the responsibility of the alternate payee. The balance of any Supplemental Savings Account that is subject to any qualified domestic relations order shall be reduced by the amount of any payment made pursuant to such order.
     9.8 . The Plan shall be construed and administered under the laws of the State of Indiana, except to the extent preempted by applicable federal law.
Applicable Law
     9.9 . If any person entitled to a benefit payment under the Plan is deemed by the Committee to be incapable of personally receiving and giving a valid receipt for such payment, then, unless and until claim therefor shall have been made by a duly appointed guardian or other legal representative of such person, the Committee may provide for such payment or any part thereof to be made to any other person or institution then contributing toward or providing for the care and maintenance of such person. Any such payment shall be a payment for the account of such person and a complete discharge of any liability of the Company, any other Employer, the Committee and the Plan therefor.
Incapacity of Recipient
     9.10 . Each Participant shall keep the Committee informed of his or her current address and the current address of his or her Beneficiaries. The Committee shall not be obligated to search for the whereabouts of any person. If the location of a Participant is not made known to the Committee within three years after the date on which payment of the Participant's benefit may first be made, payment may be made as though the Participant had died
Unclaimed Benefit
 
at the end of the three-year period. If, within one additional year after such three-year period has elapsed or within three years after the actual death of a Participant, the Committee is unable to locate any Beneficiary of the Participant, then the Committee shall have no further obligation to pay any benefit hereunder to such Participant, Beneficiary, or any other person and such benefit shall be irrevocably forfeited.
     9.11 . Notwithstanding any of the preceding provisions of the Plan, none of the Company, any other Employer, or any individual acting as an employee, or agent at the direction of the Company or any other Employer, or any member of the Committee, shall be liable to any Participant, former Participant, Beneficiary, or any other person for any claim, loss, liability or expense incurred in connection with the Plan.
Limitations on Liability
     9.12 . Claims for benefits under the Plan shall be made in writing to the Committee. If the Committee wholly or partially denies a claim for benefits, the Committee shall, within a reasonable period of time, but no later than 90 days after receiving the claim, notify the claimant in writing of the denial of the claim. If the Committee fails to notify the claimant in writing of the denial of the claim within 90 days after the Committee receives it, the claim shall be deemed denied. A notice of denial shall be written in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant, and shall contain:
Claims Procedure
 
     Within 60 days of the receipt by the claimant of the written notice of denial of the claim, or within 60 days after the claim is deemed denied as set forth above, if applicable, the claimant may file a written request with the Committee that it conduct a full and fair review of the denial of the claimant's claim for benefits, including the conducting of a hearing, if the Committee deems one necessary. In connection with the claimant's appeal of the denial of his or her benefit, the claimant may review pertinent documents and may submit issues and comments in writing. The Committee shall render a decision on the claim appeal promptly, but not later than 60 days after receiving the claimant's request for review, unless, in the discretion of the Committee, special circumstances (such as the need to hold a hearing) require an extension of time for processing, in which case the 60-day period may be extended to 120 days. The Committee shall notify the claimant in writing of any such extension. The decision upon review shall (1) include specific reasons for the decision, (2) be written in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant, and (3) contain specific references to the pertinent Plan provisions upon which the decision is based.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, NiSource Inc. has caused this amended and restated Plan to be executed in its name, by its duly authorized officer, on this 2nd day of December, 2005, effective as of January 1, 2005.

 
Exhibit 10.3
 
 
 
 
     The purpose of this Executive Deferred Compensation Plan is to provide current tax planning opportunities as well as supplemental funds for retirement or death for selected employees of an Employer. It is intended that the Plan will aid in attracting and retaining employees of exceptional ability by providing them with these benefits. Effective November 1, 2000, the Bay State Gas Company Key Employee Deferred Compensation Plan (the "Bay State Plan") was merged into the NIPSCO Industries, Inc. Executive Deferred Compensation Plan (the "NIPSCO Plan"), and the NIPSCO Plan was renamed the NiSource Inc. Executive Deferred Compensation Plan (the "Plan"). Effective January 1, 2004, the Columbia Energy Group Deferred Compensation Plan (the "Columbia Plan") was merged into the Plan. Effective January 1, 2005, the Plan is hereby amended and restated to comply with Code Section 409A, and guidance and regulations thereunder. Deferred Compensation, Discretionary Contributions, and earnings thereon, earned and vested prior to January 1, 2005 shall be administered without giving effect to Code Section 409A, and guidance and regulations thereunder.
1.1
Purpose
.
     The Plan is effective as of January 1, 2005.
1.2
Effective Date
.
 
     For the purposes of the Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:
     "Account" means the device used by an Employer to measure and determine the amount to be paid to a Participant under the Plan. Each Account shall be divided into a Pre-2005 Account containing contributions to the Plan earned and vested prior to January 1, 2005, a Post-2004 Account containing contributions to the Plan earned and/or vested on or after January 1, 2005, and, if applicable, a Transferred Bay State Account containing any amount transferred from the Bay State Plan or a Transferred Columbia Account containing any amount transferred from the Columbia Plan.
2.1
Account
.
     "Beneficiary" means the person, persons or entity entitled under Article VIII to receive any Plan benefits payable after a Participant's death.
2.2
Beneficiary
.
     . "Bonus" means an incentive award paid to a Participant during the calendar year, before reduction for amounts deferred under the Plan or any other salary reduction program.
2.3
Bonus
     . "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
2.4
Code
     "Committee" means the Officer Nomination and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company.
2.5
Committee
.
     "Company" means NiSource Inc., a Delaware corporation.
2.6
Company
.
 
     "Compensation" means base salary and incentive awards paid to a Participant during the calendar year, before reduction for amounts deferred under the Plan or any other salary reduction program. Compensation earned on or after January 1, 2005 shall not include a Bonus. Compensation does not include expense reimbursements, any form of noncash compensation, or benefits. Compensation does not include lump severance payments or lump sum vacation payouts.
2.7
Compensation
.
     "Deferral Commitment" means a commitment made by a Participant to defer a Bonus and/or Compensation pursuant to Article IV.
2.8
Deferral Commitment
.
     "Deferral Period" means each calendar year.
2.9
Deferral Period
.
     "Determination Date" means each business day.
2.10
Determination Date
.
     "Discretionary Contribution" means the Employer contribution credited to a Participant's Account under Section 5.3.
2.11
Discretionary Contribution
.
     "Election Form" means the agreement submitted by a Participant to the Retirement Committee prior to the beginning of a Deferral Period, with respect to a Deferral Commitment made for such Deferral Period.
2.12
Election Form
.
     . "Employer" means the Company and any subsidiary or affiliate of the Company designated by the Committee to participate in the Plan.
2.13
Employer
     "Participant" means any eligible individual who has elected to defer a Bonus and/or Compensation under the Plan.
2.14
Participant
.
     "Plan" means the NiSource Inc. Executive Deferred Compensation Plan, as set forth herein and as amended from time to time.
2.15
Plan
.
 
     . "Post-2004 Account" means the excess of (1) the balance of the Participant's Account determined as of a Participant's date of separation from service with all Employers after December 31, 2004 over (2) his Pre-2005 Account, to which the Participant would be entitled under the Plan if he voluntarily separated from service without cause as of such date and received a full payment of benefits from the Plan on the earliest possible date allowed under the Plan following his separation from service.
2.16
Post-2004 Account
     . Pre-2005 Account" means the balance of a Participant's Account determined as of December 31, 2004, adjusted to reflect earnings credited to such balance from and after such date.
2.17
Pre-2005 Account
"
     "Retirement Committee" means a committee consisting of the Senior Vice President of Human Resources and the Vice President, Total Rewards of the Company.
2.18
Retirement Committee
.
     "Severe Financial Hardship" means a financial hardship to the Participant resulting from a sudden and unexpected illness or accident of the Participant or of a dependent of the Participant, or loss of the Participant's property due to casualty, or other similar extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances arising as a result of events beyond the control of the Participant.
2.19
Severe Financial Hardship
.
     . "Unforeseeable Emergency" means a severe financial hardship to the Participant resulting from an illness or accident of the Participant, the Participant's spouse, or a dependent (as defined in Code Section 152(a)) of the Participant, loss of the Participant's property due to casualty, or other similar extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances arising as a result of events beyond the control of the Participant.
2.20
Unforeseeable Emergency
 
     Except when otherwise required by the context, any masculine terminology in this document shall include the feminine, and any singular terminology shall include the plural.
2.21
Gender and Number
.
     . As of November 1, 2000, the Bay State Plan was merged into the Plan. The balance of the account of each Bay State Plan participant, determined as of November 1, 2000, was transferred to the Plan and became the initial balance in such Participant's Transferred Bay State Account in the Plan. A Participant's Transferred Bay State Account shall be held, administered, invested, and distributed pursuant to the terms of the Plan.
3.1
Bay State Plan
     . As of January 1, 2004, the Columbia Plan was merged into the Plan. The balance of the account of each Columbia Plan participant, determined as of December 31, 2003, was transferred to the Plan and became the initial balance in such Participant's Transferred Columbia Account in the Plan. A Participant's Transferred Columbia Account shall be held, administered, invested, and distributed pursuant to the terms of the Plan.
3.2
Columbia Plan
     
4.1
Eligibility and Participation
.
     (a) . Any employee who was eligible to participate in the Bay State Plan or the NIPSCO Plan as of October 31, 2000 remained eligible to participate in the Plan as of November 1, 2000. Any employee eligible to participate in the Columbia Plan or the Plan as of December 31, 2003 remained eligible to participate in the Plan as of January 1, 2004. Any employee eligible to participate in the Plan as of December 31,
Eligibility
 
2004 shall be eligible to participate in the Plan as of the Effective Date. From and after the Effective Date, eligibility to participate in the Plan for a Deferral Period shall be limited to (1) an employee in job scope level D2 or above, and (2) any other key employee of an Employer who is designated from time to time by the Committee.
     (b) . An eligible individual may elect to become a Participant in the Plan with respect to a Bonus and Compensation for services performed in any Deferral Period by submitting an Election Form to the Retirement Committee during the annual enrollment period, established by the Retirement Committee, last preceding the beginning of such Deferral Period.
Participation
            Notwithstanding the preceding paragraph, an election to defer a performance-based Bonus, as defined in Code Section 409A, and guidance and regulations thereunder, may be made no later than six months before the end of the 12 month performance period during which the services related to the Bonus are performed.
     (c) . When an individual first becomes eligible to become a Participant during a Deferral Period, an Election Form may be submitted to the Retirement Committee within 30 days after the Retirement Committee notifies the individual of eligibility to participate; provided that such Participant shall not be considered first eligible if, on the date he becomes a Participant, he participates in any other nonqualified account balance plan that is subject to Code Section 409A, maintained by the Company or any affiliate. Such Election Form shall be effective beginning with a Bonus and Compensation earned after such election and as soon as practicable following submission of such Election Form to the Retirement Committee.
Part-Year Participation
 
     A Participant may elect Deferral Commitments in the Election Form as follows:
4.2
Form and Amount of Deferral
.
     (a) . A Compensation Deferral Commitment for a Deferral Period shall be related to the Compensation earned by a Participant and payable by an Employer to a Participant during that Deferral Period. The amount to be deferred shall be stated as a whole percentage of Compensation from 5% to 80%.
Compensation Deferral Commitment
     (b) . Except as set forth in Section 4.1(b) with respect to a performance-based Bonus, a Bonus Deferral Commitment for a Deferral Period shall be related to the Bonus earned by a Participant during the Deferral Period preceding the Deferral Period for which such Bonus Deferral Commitment is made. A Bonus Deferral Commitment with respect to a performance-based Bonus for a Deferral Period shall be related to the Bonus earned by a Participant during that Deferral Period, provided that such Deferral Commitment is made no later than six months prior to the end of that Deferral Period. The amount to be deferred shall be stated as a whole percentage of the Bonus from 5% to 100%.
Bonus Deferral Commitment
     No Deferral Commitment shall be made subsequent to the date of a Participant's separation from service with all Employers.
     . A Participant shall make an election in his Election Form as to the time and form of payment of the Deferral Commitment for each Deferral Period. A Participant shall not be required to designate the same time and form of payment for each Deferral Period. Each Deferral Commitment with respect to a calendar year shall specify the date on which the applicable deferred amount and earnings thereon shall be distributed. Such
4.3
Deferral Options
 
date shall be the first to occur of (1) the date of the Participant's separation from service with all Employers; and (2) a date selected by the Participant, provided that a selected date must be at least one year after the date the deferred amount would have been paid to the Participant in cash in the absence of the election to make the deferral.
     . Except as provided in Sections 7.1(a) and 7.5 below, Deferral Commitments shall be irrevocable.
4.4
Modification of Deferral Commitment
     If the Committee determines that a Participant's performance is no longer at a level that deserves reward through participation in the Plan, but does not terminate the Participant's employment with an Employer, the Participant's existing Deferral Commitment shall terminate at the end of the current Deferral Period, and no new Deferral Commitment may be made by such Participant for any Deferral Period beginning after notice of such determination is given by the Committee.
4.5
Change in Employment Status
.
     The Compensation deferred by a Participant under the Plan, any Discretionary Contributions and earnings thereon shall be credited to the Participant's Account. Separate subaccounts may be maintained to reflect different forms of distribution, investment options, levels of vesting, and forms of payment. The Account shall be a bookkeeping device utilized for the sole purpose of determining the benefits payable under the Plan and shall not constitute a separate fund of assets.
5.1
Account
.
     A Participant's deferred Bonus and Compensation shall be credited to the Participant's Account at the time it would have been payable to the Participant. Any withholding of taxes or other amounts with respect to deferred
5.2
Timing of Credits; Withholding
.
 
Compensation that is required by federal, state or local law shall be withheld from the Participant's nondeferred Bonus and Compensation to the maximum extent possible and any remaining amount shall reduce the amount credited to the Participant's Account.
     An Employer may make Discretionary Contributions to a Participant's Account. Discretionary Contributions shall be credited at such times and in such amounts as the Committee in its sole discretion shall determine.
5.3
Discretionary Contributions
.
     Each Participant's Account as of each Determination Date shall consist of the balance of the Account as of the immediately preceding Determination Date, adjusted as follows:
5.4
Determination of Account
.
     (a) . The Account shall be increased by any deferred Bonus and Compensation credited since such preceding Determination Date.
New Deferrals
     (b) . The Account shall be increased by any Discretionary Contributions credited since such preceding Determination Date.
Discretionary Contributions
     (c) . The Account shall be reduced by any benefits distributed from the Account to the Participant since such preceding Determination Date.
Distributions
     (d) . The Account shall be increased or decreased by the aggregate earnings, gains and losses on such Account since such preceding Determination Date.
Valuation of Account
     Each Participant shall be vested in the amounts credited to such Participant's Account and earnings thereon as follows:
5.5
Vesting of Account
.
 
     (a) . A Participant shall be 100% vested at all times in the amount of Bonus and Compensation elected to be deferred under the Plan, and earnings thereon.
Amounts Deferred
     (b) . A Participant's Discretionary Contributions, and earnings thereon, shall become vested as determined by the Committee.
Discretionary Contributions
     (c) . A Participant shall be 100% vested at all times in the balance of his Transferred Bay State Account or Transferred Columbia Account, if any.
Transferred Account
     The Retirement Committee shall give to each Participant a statement showing the balance in the Participant's Account on a quarterly basis and at such other times as may be determined by the Retirement Committee.
5.6
Statement of Account
.
     Amounts credited hereunder to the Account of a Participant shall be invested as such Participant elects among the investment choices set forth on Exhibit A or available pursuant to Sections 6.2 and 6.3. No election of a Deferral Commitment by a Participant shall be effective until such time as the Participant submits his initial investment election to the Company. Such investment election shall continue to apply to subsequent Deferral Commitments made by the Participant until changed by the Participant.
6.1
Investment Options
.
     Former participants in the Bay State Plan who became Participants in the Plan, or Participants in the Plan on November 1, 2000, shall have an additional special
6.2
Special Investment Option for Former Participants in the Bay State Plan and Participants in the Plan
.
 
investment option applicable solely to their Transferred Bay State Account balances, or their Account balances in the Plan, valued as of November 1, 2000, and any subsequent amounts contributed to such Participant's Account. Such Participants may invest their Transferred Bay State Account balances, or their Account balances in the Plan as of November 1, 2000, and any subsequent amounts contributed to such Participant's Account, in a subaccount which shall be credited with earnings equal to one percentage point higher than the effective annual yield of the average of the Moody's Average Corporate Bond Yield Index for the previous calendar month as published by Moody's Investor Services, Inc. (or any successor publisher thereto), or, if such index is no longer published, a substantially similar index selected by the Committee. A Participant's Transferred Bay State Account balance, or his Account balance in the Plan on November 1, 2000, shall be invested pursuant to this special investment option from and after November 1, 2000 and until such time as another investment choice is designated by him pursuant to Section 6.1 with respect to all or a portion of his Transferred Bay State Account, or his Account balance in the Plan on November 1, 2000. Subsequent amounts contributed to any such Participant's Account may be invested pursuant to this option as designated by the Participant pursuant to Section 6.1. However, any portion of a Transferred Bay State Account, or an Account balance in the Plan, subsequently transferred from the investment option described in this Section 6.2 to another investment option may not be reinvested under this Section 6.2.
     . Former participants in the Columbia Plan who become Participants in the Plan on January 1, 2004 shall have an additional special investment option applicable solely to their Transferred Columbia Account balances, valued as of January 1, 2004. Such Participants may invest all or any portion of their Transferred Columbia Account balances in a subaccount that shall be
6.3
Special Investment Option for Former Participants in the Columbia Plan
 
credited each day with earnings equal to the prime rate of interest in effect as of such business day, as listed in The Wall Street Journal. All or the designated portion of a Participant's Transferred Columbia Account balance shall be invested pursuant to this special investment option from and after January 1, 2004 and until such time as another investment choice is designated by him pursuant to Section 6.1 with respect to all or a portion of his Transferred Columbia Account. Any portion of a Transferred Columbia Account subsequently transferred from the investment option described in this Section 6.3 to another investment option may not be reinvested under the investment option described in this Section 6.3. Amounts contributed to any such Participant's Account on or after January 1, 2004 shall not be eligible for the investment option described in this Section 6.3.
     A Participant's Account may be distributed to the Participant prior to separation from service as follows:
7.1
Distributions Prior to Separation From Service
.
     (a) .
Hardship Distributions
     (i) Upon a finding that a Participant has suffered a Severe Financial Hardship, the Retirement Committee may, in its sole discretion, make distributions from the Participant's Pre-2005 Account (including his Transferred Bay State Account or Transferred Columbia Account, if applicable). The amount of such a distribution shall be limited to the amount reasonably necessary to meet the Participant's needs resulting from the Severe Financial Hardship. Any distribution pursuant to this Section 7.1(a)(i) shall be payable in a lump sum. The distribution shall be paid within 30 days after the determination of a Severe Financial Hardship.
 
     (ii) Upon a finding that a Participant has suffered an Unforeseeable Emergency, the Retirement Committee may, in its sole discretion, make distributions from the Participant's Post-2004 Account and/or allow a Participant to suspend his Deferred Commitment entirely. The amount of such distribution shall be limited to the amount necessary to satisfy such Unforeseeable Emergency plus amounts necessary to pay taxes reasonably anticipated as a result of the distribution, after taking into account the extent to which such hardship is or may be relieved through reimbursement or compensation by insurance or otherwise or by liquidation of the Participant's assets (to the extent the liquidation of such assets would not itself cause severe financial hardship). Any distribution pursuant to this Section 7.1(a)(ii) shall be payable in a lump sum. The distribution shall be paid within 30 days after the determination of an Unforeseeable Emergency.
     (b) . The Employer shall pay the Participant an amount of a Deferral Commitment and earnings thereon not paid pursuant to Section 7.1(a) in the year designated by the Participant in such Deferral Commitment. Such amount shall be payable in the manner provided in Sections 7.3 and 7.6 and at the time provided in Section 7.4.
Deferral to Designated Year
     Upon a Participant's separation from service with an Employer for any reason, the Employer shall pay the Participant, or, in the case of death, the Participant's Beneficiary, an amount equal to the balance in the Participant's Account. Such amount shall be payable in the manner provided in Sections 7.3 and 7.6 and at the time provided in Section 7.4.
7.2
Distributions Following Separation from Service
.
 
     
7.3
Form of Benefit Payment
.
     (a) Subject to Section 8.3(c), the amount of a Deferral Commitment and earnings thereon not paid pursuant to Section 7.1(a) shall be paid (1) in the year designated by the Participant in such Deferral Commitment, or (2) following separation from service, as applicable, to the Participant (or to his Beneficiary in the case of his death) in the form selected by the Participant in his Election Form at the time of the Deferral Commitment. Options include:
     (i) A lump sum payment.
     (ii) Equal annual installments over a period of not more than 15 years.
     (b) In the event a Participant's Pre-2005 Account balance at the time distribution begins, or following a distribution pursuant to subsection (a)(ii) above, is $15,000 or less, that balance shall be paid to the Participant or his Beneficiary in a lump sum on the next annual installment distribution date notwithstanding any form of benefit payment elected by the Participant.
     
7.4
Valuation and Settlement
.
     (a) . The amount of a lump sum payment in a designated year pursuant to Section 7.1(b) shall be based on the value of the Participant's Account, or a Deferral Commitment and earnings thereon, as of the March 15th of such designated year. The distribution date shall be March 31st of such year, or, if later, within such timeframe permitted under Code Section 409A, and guidance and regulations thereunder.
Lump Sum in Designated Year
 
     (b) . The amount of a lump sum payment following separation from service pursuant to Section 7.2 shall be based on the value of the Participant's Account, or a Deferral Commitment and earnings thereon, on the date of separation. The distribution date shall be within 45 days after the Participant's date of separation from service, or, if later, within such timeframe permitted under Code Section 409A, and guidance and regulations thereunder; provided, however, that in no event will distribution of a Participant's Post-2004 Account begin earlier than six months following separation from service, unless due to such Participant's death, if the Participant was a Specified Employee of any Employer, at a time during which the Company's capital stock or capital stock of an Employer is publicly traded on an established securities market, in the calendar year of his separation from service.
Lump Sum Following Separation From Service
            A Participant shall be deemed to be a Specified Employee for purposes of this paragraph (b) if he is in job category C2 or above with respect to any Employer that employs him; provided that if at any time the total number of Employees in job category C2 and above is less than 50, a Specified Employee shall include any person who meets the definition of a Key Employee set forth in Code Section 416(i) without reference to paragraph (5). A Participant shall be deemed to be a Specified Employee with respect to a calendar year if he is a Specified Employee on September 30th of the preceding calendar year. If a Specified Employee will receive payments hereunder in the form of installments, the first payment made as of the date six months after the date of the Participant's separation from service with the Company and all Affiliated Companies
 
shall be a lump sum, paid as soon as practicable after the end of such six-month period, that includes all payments that would otherwise have been made during such six-month period. From and after the end of such six-month period, any such installment payments shall be made pursuant to the terms of the applicable installment form of payment.
     (c) . The amount of an installment payment, pursuant to Section 7.1(b) or 7.2, shall be based on the value of the Participant's Account, or a Deferral Commitment and earnings thereon, as of the March 15th preceding distribution of each such installment. The distribution date shall be each subsequent March 31st, or, if later, within such timeframe permitted under Code Section 409A, and guidance and regulations thereunder.
Installments
     
7.5
Modification of Distribution
.
     (a) . Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, a Participant may modify his election as to the form or time of distribution of his entire Pre-2005 Account, and earnings thereon, by a writing filed with the Retirement Committee at any time prior to the commencement of payment. A Participant's modification of his election as to the form or time of commencement of payment shall be ineffective, unless (1) the modification election is filed with the Retirement Committee more than 12 months prior to the time of commencement of payment, or (2) a Participant elects by written instrument delivered to the Company prior to the time of commencement of payment to have his Pre-2005 Account reduced by 10%. This reduction shall be forfeited and used by the Plan to reduce expenses of administration. This reduction is intended to discourage a Participant from modifying his election as to the form or time of commencement of payment within the period set forth in clause (1) above and prevent him from being deemed in constructive receipt of his Pre-2005 Account prior to its actual payment to him.
Pre-2005 Account
 
     (b) .
Post-2004 Account
     (i) A Participant may modify his election as to the form or time of distribution of his entire Post-2004 Account, and earnings thereon, or of any Post-2004 Deferral Commitment under the Plan and earnings thereon, if (1) such election does not take effect until at least 12 months after the date on which the election is made, (2) the first payment with respect to which such election is made is deferred for a period of not less than five years from the date on which such payment would otherwise have been made, and (3) any election related to a payment to be made at a specified date is made at least 12 months prior to the date of the first scheduled payment.
     (ii) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section 7.5, a Participant may change an election with respect to the time and form of payment of a Post-2004 Benefit, without regard to the restrictions imposed under paragraph (i) next above, on or before December 31, 2006; provided that such election (1) applies only to amounts that would not otherwise be payable in calendar year 2006, and (2) shall not cause an amount to be paid in calendar year 2006 that would not otherwise be payable in such year
      Notwithstanding any other provision in the Plan, the following provisions shall apply to the form and time of payment of the balance of a Transferred Bay State Account:
7.6
Distribution Provisions Applicable to a Transferred Bay State Account
.
 
     (a) The portion of a Transferred Bay State Account not paid pursuant to paragraph (a) of Section 7.1 shall be paid to a Participant following his separation from service, or to his Beneficiary in the case of death, in the form selected by the Participant, by written instrument delivered to the Retirement Committee before November 1, 2000. If no form is selected by the Participant, payment shall be made in a lump sum. The provisions of Sections 7.3 and 7.5 shall apply with respect to the election of the form of payment of a Transferred Bay State Account and the modification of such election.
     (b) Any former employee of Bay State Gas Company who (1) was a participant in the Bay State Plan immediately prior to November 1, 2000, (2) terminated employment with Bay State Gas Company prior to November 1, 2000 for any reason other than Retirement, death or Disability (as such terms were defined in the Bay State Plan immediately prior to November 1, 2000), and (3) as of November 1, 2000, had not commenced payment of his Account shall not commence payment of his Transferred Bay State Account until the earlier of the Participant's attainment of age 65, Disability or death. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the Retirement Committee may, in its sole discretion, vary the manner and time of making the payment of a Participant's Transferred Bay State Account to such former Bay State employee, and may make such distributions over a longer or shorter period of time or in a lump sum.
     To the extent required by the law in effect at the time payments are made, an Employer shall withhold from the payments made hereunder any taxes required to be withheld by the federal or any state or local government, including any amounts which the Employer determines is reasonably necessary to pay any generation-skipping transfer
7.7
Withholding for Taxes
.
 
tax which is or may become due. A Beneficiary, however, may elect not to have withholding of federal income tax pursuant to Code Section 3405(a)(2).
     The Retirement Committee may direct payment to the duly appointed guardian, conservator or other similar legal representative of a Participant or Beneficiary to whom payment is due. In the absence of such a legal representative, the Retirement Committee may, in its sole and absolute discretion, make payment to a person having the care and custody of a minor, incompetent or person incapable of handling the disposition of property upon proof satisfactory to the Retirement Committee of incompetency, minority or incapacity. Such distribution shall completely discharge the Company from all liability with respect to such benefit.
7.8
Payment to Guardian
.
     Subject to Section 8.3, each Participant shall have the right, at any time, to designate one or more persons or an entity as Beneficiary (both primary as well as secondary) to whom benefits under the Plan shall be paid in the event of the Participant's death prior to complete distribution of the Participant's Account. Each Beneficiary designation shall be in a written form prescribed by the Retirement Committee and shall be effective only when filed with the Retirement Committee during the Participant's lifetime.
8.1
Beneficiary Designation
.
     Subject to Section 8.3, any Beneficiary designation may be changed by a Participant without the consent of the previously named Beneficiary by the filing of a new designation with the Retirement Committee. The filing of a new designation shall cancel all designations previously filed.
8.2
Changing Beneficiary
.
 
     If the Participant resides in a community property state, the following rules shall apply:
8.3
Community Property
.
     (a) Designation by a married Participant of a Beneficiary other than the Participant's spouse shall not be effective unless the spouse executes a written consent that acknowledges the effect of the designation, or it is established that the consent cannot be obtained because the spouse cannot be located.
     (b) A married Participant's Beneficiary designation may be changed by a Participant with the consent of the Participant's spouse as provided for in Section 8.3(a) by the filing of a new designation with the Retirement Committee.
     (c) If the Participant's marital status changes after the Participant has designated a Beneficiary, the following shall apply:
     (i) If the Participant is married at the time of death but was unmarried when the designation was made, the designation shall be void unless the spouse has consented to it in the manner prescribed in Section 8.3(a).
     (ii) If the Participant is unmarried at the time of death but was married when the designation was made:
     (A) The designation shall be void if the spouse was named as Beneficiary, unless the designation is reaffirmed when the Participant is unmarried.
     (B) The designation shall remain valid if a nonspouse Beneficiary was named.
 
     (iii) If the Participant was married when the designation was made and is married to a different spouse at death, the designation shall be void unless the new spouse has consented to it in the manner prescribed above.
     If any Participant fails to designate a Beneficiary in the manner provided above, if the designation is void or if the Beneficiary designated by a deceased Participant dies before the Participant or before complete distribution of the Participant's benefits, the Participant's Beneficiary shall be the person in the first of the following classes in which there is a survivor:
8.4
No Beneficiary Designation
.
     (a) The Participant's spouse;
     (b) The Participant's children in equal shares, except that if any of the children predeceases the Participant but leaves issue surviving, then such issue shall take, by right of representation, the share the parent would have taken if living;
     (c) The Participant's estate.
     The Plan shall be administered by the Retirement Committee. The Retirement Committee shall have the authority to make, amend, interpret, and enforce all appropriate rules and regulations for the administration of the Plan and decide or resolve any and all questions, including interpretations of the Plan, as may arise in such administration. Members of the Retirement Committee may be Participants under the Plan.
9.1
Committee; Duties
.
 
     The Retirement Committee may, from time to time, employ agents and delegate to them such administrative duties as it sees fit, and may from time to time consult with counsel who may be counsel to the Company.
9.2
Agents
.
     The decision or action of the Retirement Committee with respect to any question arising out of or in connection with the administration, interpretation and application of the Plan and the rules and regulations promulgated hereunder shall be final, conclusive and binding upon all persons having any interest in the Plan.
9.3
Binding Effect of Decisions
.
     The Company shall indemnify and hold harmless the members of the Retirement Committee against any and all claims, loss, damage, expense, or liability arising from any action or failure to act with respect to the Plan on account of such person's service on the Retirement Committee, except in the case of gross negligence or willful misconduct.
9.4
Indemnity of Retirement Committee
.
     The Retirement Committee shall establish rules and procedures to be followed by Participants and Beneficiaries in filing claims for benefits, and for furnishing and verifying proof necessary to establish the right to benefits in accordance with the Plan, consistent with the remainder of this Article. Such rules and procedures shall require that claims and proofs be made in writing and directed to the Retirement Committee.
10.1
Claim
.
     The Retirement Committee shall review all claims for benefits. Upon receipt by the Retirement Committee of such a claim, it shall determine all facts that are necessary to establish the right of the claimant to benefits under the provisions of the Plan and the amount thereof as herein provided within 90 days of receipt of such claim. If prior
10.2
Review of Claim
.
 
to the expiration of the initial 90 day period, the Retirement Committee determines additional time is needed to come to a determination on the claim, the Retirement Committee shall provide written notice to the Participant, Beneficiary or other claimant of the need for the extension, not to exceed a total of 180 days from the date the application was received.
     In the event that any Participant, Beneficiary or other claimant claims to be entitled to a benefit under the Plan, and the Retirement Committee determines that such claim should be denied in whole or in part, the Retirement Committee shall, in writing, notify such claimant that the claim has been denied, in whole or in part, setting forth the specific reasons for such denial. Such notification shall be written in a manner reasonably expected to be understood by such claimant and shall refer to the specific sections of the Plan relied on, shall describe any additional material or information necessary for the claimant to perfect the claim and an explanation of why such material or information is necessary, and, where appropriate, shall include an explanation of how the claimant can obtain reconsideration of such denial.
10.3
Notice of Denial of Claim
.
     
10.4
Reconsideration of Denied Claim
.
     (a) Within 60 days after receipt of the notice of the denial of a claim, such claimant or duly authorized representative may request, by mailing or delivery of such written notice to the Retirement Committee, a reconsideration by the Retirement Committee of the decision denying the claim. If the claimant or duly authorized representative fails to request such a reconsideration within such 60 day period, it shall be conclusively determined for all purposes of the Plan that the denial of such claim by the Retirement Committee is correct. If such claimant or duly authorized representative requests a reconsideration within such 60 day period, the claimant or duly authorized
 
representative shall have 30 days after filing a request for reconsideration to submit additional written material in support of the claim, review pertinent documents and submit issues and comments in writing.
     (b) After such reconsideration request, the Retirement Committee shall determine within 60 days of receipt of the claimant's request for reconsideration whether such denial of the claim was correct and shall notify such claimant in writing of its determination. The written notice of decision shall be in writing and shall include specific reasons for the decision, written in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant, as well as specific references to the pertinent Plan provisions on which the decision is based. In the event of special circumstances determined by the Retirement Committee, the time for the Retirement Committee to make a decision may be extended by an additional 60 days upon written notice to the claimant prior to the commencement of the extension. If such determination is favorable to the claimant, it shall be binding and conclusive. If such determination is adverse to such claimant, it shall be binding and conclusive unless the claimant or his duly authorized representative notifies the Retirement Committee within 90 days after the mailing or delivery to the claimant by the Retirement Committee of its determination that claimant intends to institute legal proceedings challenging the determination of the Retirement Committee and actually institutes such legal proceedings within 180 days after such mailing or delivery.
     To enable the Retirement Committee to perform its functions, each Employer shall supply full and timely information to the Retirement Committee of all matters relating to the retirement, death or other cause for separation from service of all Participants, and such other pertinent facts as the Retirement Committee may require.
10.5
Employer to Supply Information
.
 
     The Committee may at any time amend the Plan by written instrument, notice of which is given to all Participants, and to Beneficiaries receiving installment payments. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, no amendment shall reduce the amount accrued in any Account prior to the date such notice of the amendment is given.
11.1
Amendment
.
     The Committee may at any time partially or completely terminate the Plan if, in its judgment, the tax, accounting or other effects of the continuance of the Plan, or potential payments thereunder, would not be in the best interests of the Employers.
11.2
Employer's Right to Terminate
.
     (a) . The Committee may partially terminate the Plan by instructing the Retirement Committee not to accept any additional Deferral Commitments. If such a partial termination occurs, the Plan shall continue to operate and be effective with regard to Deferral Commitments entered into prior to the effective date of such partial termination.
Partial Termination
     (b) . The Committee may completely terminate the Plan by instructing the Retirement Committee not to accept any additional Deferral Commitments, and by terminating all ongoing Deferral Commitments. If such a complete termination occurs, the Plan shall cease to operate and the Employers shall pay out each Pre-2005 Account in equal monthly installments over the following period, based on the Pre-2005 Account balance:
Complete Termination
 
Payments shall commence within 65 days after the Committee terminates the Plan, and earnings shall continue to be credited on the unpaid Account balance. Employers shall pay out each Post-2004 Account in the manner and at the time described in Articles IV and VII.
     The Plan is an unfunded plan maintained primarily to provide deferred compensation benefits for a select group of "management or highly-compensated employees" within the meaning of Sections 201, 301 and 401 of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ("ERISA"), and therefore is exempt from the provisions of Parts 2, 3 and 4 of Title I of ERISA.
12.1
Unfunded Plan
.
     The obligation to make benefit payments to any Participant under the Plan shall be a joint and several liability of the Company and the Employer that employed the Participant.
12.2
Company and Employer Obligations
.
     Participants and Beneficiaries shall be unsecured general creditors, with no secured or preferential right to any assets of the Employer or any other party for payment of benefits under the Plan. Any life insurance policies, annuity contracts or other property purchased by the Employer in connection with the Plan shall remain its general, unpledged and unrestricted assets. The Employer's obligation under the Plan shall be an unfunded and unsecured promise to pay money in the future.
12.3
Unsecured General Creditor
.
 
     Subject to Section 12.3, the Company may establish separate subtrusts for deferrals by employees of each Employer, pursuant to a trust agreement entered into with such trustees as the Committee may approve, for the purpose of providing for the payment of benefits owed under the Plan. At its discretion, each Employer may contribute deferrals under the Plan for its employees to the subtrust established with respect to such Employer under such trust agreement. To the extent any benefits provided under the Plan are paid from any such subtrust, the Employer shall have no further obligation to pay them. If not paid from a subtrust, such benefits shall remain the obligation of the Employer. Although such subtrusts may be irrevocable, their assets shall be held for payment of all the Company's general creditors in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy.
12.4
Trust Fund
.
     Neither a Participant nor any other person shall have any right to commute, sell, assign, transfer, pledge, anticipate, mortgage, or otherwise encumber, transfer, hypothecate, or convey in advance of actual receipt the amounts, if any, payable hereunder, or any part thereof or rights to, which are expressly declared to be unassignable and nontransferable. No part of the amounts payable shall, prior to actual payment, be subject to seizure or sequestration for the payment of any debts, judgments, alimony, or separate maintenance owed by a Participant or any other person, nor be transferable by operation of law in the event of a Participant's or any other person's bankruptcy or insolvency.
12.5
Nonassignability
.
     Notwithstanding the preceding paragraph, the Account of any Participant shall be subject to and payable in the amount determined in accordance with any qualified domestic relations order, as that term is defined in Section 206(d)(3) of ERISA. The Retirement Committee shall provide for payment in a lump sum from a Participant's Account to an alternate payee (as defined in Code Section 414(p)(8)) as soon as administratively practicable following receipt of
 
such order. Any federal, state or local income tax associated with such payment shall be the responsibility of the alternate payee. The balance of an Account that is subject to any qualified domestic relations order shall be reduced by the amount of any payment made pursuant to such order.
     The Plan shall not constitute a contract of employment between an Employer and the Participant. Nothing in the Plan shall give a Participant the right to be retained in the service of an Employer or to interfere with the right of an Employer to discipline or discharge a Participant at any time.
12.6
Not a Contract of Employment
.
     A Participant shall cooperate with his Employer by furnishing any and all information requested by the Employer in order to facilitate the payment of benefits hereunder, and by taking such physical examinations as the Employer may deem necessary and taking such other action as may be requested by the Employer.
12.7
Protective Provisions
.
     The provisions of the Plan shall be construed and interpreted according to the laws of the State of Indiana, except as preempted by federal law.
12.8
Governing Law
.
     In case any provision of the Plan shall be held illegal or invalid for any reason, said illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts hereof, but the Plan shall be construed and enforced as if such illegal and invalid provision had never been inserted herein.
12.9
Validity
.
     Any notice required or permitted under the Plan shall be sufficient if in writing and hand delivered or sent by registered or certified mail. Such notice shall be deemed as given as of the date of delivery or, if delivery is made by mail, as of the date shown on the postmark on the receipt for registration or certification. Mailed notice to the Retirement Committee shall be directed to the Company's address. Mailed notice to a Participant or Beneficiary shall be directed to the individual's last known address in the applicable Employer's records.
12.10
Notice
.
 
     The provisions of the Plan shall bind and inure to the benefit of the Employers and their successors and assigns. The term successors as used herein shall include any corporate or other business entity that shall, whether by merger, consolidation, purchase, or otherwise, acquire all or substantially all of the business and assets of an Employer, and successors of any such corporation or other business entity.
12.11
Successors
.
     Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Plan, (1) in the event that the Internal Revenue Service prevails in its claim that amounts contributed to the Plan for the benefit of a Participant, and/or earnings thereon, constitute taxable income under Code Section 409A, and guidance and regulations thereunder, to the Participant or his Beneficiary for a taxable year prior to the taxable year in which such contributions and/or earnings are distributed to him, or (2) in the event that legal counsel satisfactory to the Company, and the applicable Participant or his Beneficiary, renders an opinion that the Internal Revenue Service would likely prevail in such a claim, the Post-2004 Account, to the extent constituting such taxable income, shall be immediately distributed to the Participant or his Beneficiary. For purposes of this Section, the Internal Revenue Service shall be deemed to have prevailed in a claim if such claim is upheld by a court of final jurisdiction, or, if based upon an opinion of legal counsel satisfactory to the Company and the Participant or his Beneficiary, the Plan fails to appeal a decision of the Internal Revenue Service, or a court of applicable jurisdiction, with respect to such claim to an appropriate Internal Revenue Service appeals authority or to a court of higher jurisdiction within the appropriate time period.
12.12
Tax Savings Clause
.
 
     , the Company has caused the Plan to be executed in its name by its duly authorized officer this 2nd day of December, 2005, effective as of the 1st day of January, 2005.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 

 
Exhibit 10.4
 
 
 
          WHEREAS, NiSource Inc. (formerly NIPSCO Industries, Inc.) (the "Company") adopted the NIPSCO Industries, Inc. 1994 Long-Term Incentive Plan effective April 13, 1994, as amended and restated effective April 14, 1999, and now known as the NiSource Inc. 1994 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan");
          WHEREAS, the Company further amended and restated the Plan effective January 1, 2000, and again amended and restated the Plan effective January 1, 2004; and
          WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 21 of the Plan, the Company wishes to further amend and restate the Plan, effective January 1, 2005, as set forth below, to comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended ("Code") with respect to benefits earned under the Plan from and after January 1, 2005. Benefits under the Plan earned and vested prior to January 1, 2005 shall be administered without giving effect to Code Section 409A, and guidance and regulations thereunder.
          NOW THEREFORE, the Plan is hereby amended and restated, effective January 1, 2005, as follows:
 
 
 
only to years or other periods of time in which such awards constitute "applicable employee remuneration" under Code Section 162(m).
 
 
 
 
 
 
          "This certificate and the shares represented hereby are subject to the terms and conditions (including forfeiture and restrictions against transfer) contained in the NiSource Inc. 1994 Long-Term Incentive Plan and an Agreement entered into by the registered owner. Release from such terms and conditions shall be obtained only in accordance with the provisions of the Plan and Agreement, a copy of each of which is on file in the office of the Secretary of said Company."
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Amendment and Restatement to be executed on its behalf by its officer duly authorized, on this 2nd day of December, 2005.

 
Exhibit 10.5
 
 
 
     The Columbia Gas System, Inc. adopted The Pension Restoration Plan for The Columbia Gas System, Inc., as amended and restated effective March 1, 1997. The Plan was amended and restated, effective January 1, 2002, by Columbia Energy Group, successor to Columbia Gas System, Inc., and renamed the Pension Restoration Plan for the Columbia Energy Group. Effective January 1, 2004, NiSource Inc., the parent company of Columbia Energy Group, assumed sponsorship of the Pension Restoration Plan for Columbia Energy Group, renamed the Plan the Pension Restoration Plan for NiSource Inc. and Affiliates, and broadened the Plan to include all employees of NiSource Inc. and Affiliated Companies.
     The Plan is now further amended and restated, effective January 1, 2005, as set forth below, to comply with Internal Revenue Code Section 409A with respect to benefits earned under the Plan.
     The purpose of the Plan is to provide for the payment of pension restoration benefits to employees of NiSource Inc. and Affiliated Companies, whose benefits under the Basic Plans are subject to the Limits, or affected by deferrals into the DCP, so that the total pension plan benefits of such employees will be determined on the same basis as is applicable to all other employees of the Company. The Plan is adopted solely (1) for the purpose of providing benefits to Participants in the Plan and their Beneficiaries in excess of the Limits imposed on qualified plans by Code Sections 415 and 401(a)(17), and any other Code Sections, by restoring benefits to such Plan Participants and Beneficiaries that are no longer available under the Basic Plans as a result
 
of the Limits, and (2) for the purpose of restoring benefits to Plan Participants and Beneficiaries that are no longer available under the Basic Plans as a result of the Participant's deferrals into the DCP. The provisions of the Plan apply only to Participants who actively participate in the Plan on or after January 1, 2005. Any Participant who retired or otherwise terminated employment with the Company and Affiliated Companies prior to January 1, 2005 shall have his or her rights determined under the provision of the Plan, as it existed when his or her employment relationship terminated.
     2.1 . "Affiliated Company" means an affiliate of NiSource Inc.
Affiliated Company
     2.2 . "Basic Plan(s)" means the tax qualified retirement plan(s) maintained by the Company and Affiliated Companies listed on Schedule A, attached hereto.
Basic Plans
     2.3 . "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
     2.4 . "Committee" means the NiSource Inc. and Affiliates Retirement Plan Administrative and Investment Committee.
Committee
     2.5 . "Company" means NiSource Inc.
Company
     2.6 . "DCP" means the Columbia Energy Group Deferred Compensation Plan, on or prior to December 31, 2003, and, thereafter, the NiSource Inc. Executive Deferred Compensation Plan.
DCP
     2.7 . "Disability" means a condition that (a) causes a Participant to be unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months, (b) causes a Participant, by reason of any
Disability
 
medically determinable physical or mental impairment that can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months, to receive income replacement benefits for a period of not less than three months under an accident and health plan covering Employees of the Company or an Affiliated Company or (c) causes a Participant to be eligible to receive Social Security disability payments.
     2.8 . "Employee" means any individual who is employed by an Employer on a basis that involves payment of salary, wages or commissions.
Employee
     2.9 . "Employer" means the Company or an Affiliated Company whose Employees participate in the Plan.
Employer
     2.10 . "ERISA" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
ERISA
     2.11 . "Limits" means the limits imposed on tax qualified retirement plans by Code Sections 415 and 401(a)(17) and any other Code Sections.
Limits
     2.12 . "Participant" means any Employee who is participating in the Plan in accordance with its provisions.
Participant
     2.13 . "Plan" means the Pension Restoration Plan for NiSource Inc. and Affiliates (formerly known as the Pension Restoration Plan for the Columbia Energy Group, and before that as the Pension Restoration Plan for The Columbia Gas System, Inc.), as set forth herein.
Plan
     Each Employee of an Employer shall be a Participant in the Plan if his or her benefits under a Basic Plan are affected by the Limits or by his or her deferrals under the DCP.
 
     4.1 . The benefit payable under the Plan to a Participant who was participating in the Plan prior to January 1, 2004, or to his or her Beneficiary under a Basic Plan, shall be equal to the excess (if any) of the benefit determined under subsection (a) below over the benefit determined under subsection (b) below:
Participants Before January 1, 2004
 
 
 
     5.2 . A benefit payable in accordance with Section 5.1 will commence within 45 days after: (i) if the Participant qualifies for Early Retirement under a Basic Plan, when the Participant separates from service, or (ii) if the Participant does not qualify for Early Retirement under a Basic Plan, the later of when the Participant separates from service or attains (or would have attained) age 65, or, if later, within such timeframe permitted under Code Section 409A, and guidance and regulations thereunder.
Timing of Payment
     5.3 . A Participant cannot change the form of payment of a benefit elected under Section 5.1 or this Section 5.3 unless (i) such election does not take effect until at least 12 months after the date on which the election is made, (ii) in the case of an election related to a payment not due to the Participant's Disability or death, the first payment with respect to which such new election is effective is deferred for a period of not less than five years from the date such payment would otherwise have been made, and (iii) any election related to a payment based upon a specific time or pursuant to a fixed schedule may not be made less than 12 months prior to the date of the first scheduled payment; provided, however, that an election to change from one type of annuity payment to a different, actuarially equivalent,
Changes to the Form of Payment
 
type of annuity payment shall not be considered a change to the form of payment for purposes of applying the restrictions in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii).
     Notwithstanding the preceding paragraphs of this Section 5.3, a Participant may change an election with respect to the form of payment of a benefit, without regard to the restrictions imposed under the preceding paragraph, on or before December 31, 2006; provided that such election (i) applies only to amounts that would not otherwise be payable in calendar year 2006, and (ii) shall not cause an amount to be paid in calendar year 2006 that would not otherwise be payable in such year.
     5.4 . Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, in no event can a payment of a benefit to a Participant who is a Specified Employee of the Company or an Affiliated Company, at a time during which the Company's capital stock or capital stock of an Affiliated Company is publicly traded on an established securities market, in the calendar year of his or her separation from service, be made before the date that is six months after the date of the Participant's separation from service with the Company and all Affiliated Companies, unless such separation is due to his or her death or Disability.
Specified Employees
     A Participant shall be deemed to be a Specified Employee for purposes of this Section 5.4 if he or she is in a job category C2 or above with respect to the Company or Affiliated Company that employs him or her; provided if at any time the total number of Employees in job category C2 and above is less than 50, a Specified Employee shall include any person who meets the definition of Key Employee set forth in Code Section 416(i) without reference to paragraph (5). A Participant shall be deemed to be a Specified Employee with respect to a calendar year if he or she is a Specified Employee on September 30th of the preceding calendar year. If a Specified Employee will receive payments hereunder in the form of installments or an annuity, the first
 
payment made as of the date six months after the date of the Participant's separation from service with the Company and all Affiliated Companies shall be a lump sum, paid as soon as practicable after the end of such six-month period, that includes all payments that would otherwise have been made during such six-month period. From and after the end of such six month period, any such installment or annuity payments shall be made pursuant to the terms of the applicable installment or annuity form of payment.
     5.5 . Determinations under the Plan shall be based on the interest and mortality assumptions used in the applicable Basic Plan on the date of such determination.
Interest and Mortality Assumptions
     The Plan shall be administered by the Committee.
     While the Company intends to maintain the Plan in conjunction with the Basic Plans, the Company, or the Officer Nomination and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company, reserves the right to amend the Plan at any time and from time to time, or to terminate it at any time for any reason; provided, however, that no amendment or termination of the Plan shall impair or alter such right to a benefit that would have arisen under the Plan as it read before the effective date of such amendment or termination to or with respect to any employee who has become a Participant in the Plan before the effective date of such amendment or termination or with respect to his or her Beneficiary. Upon termination of the Plan, distribution of Plan benefits shall be made to Participants and Beneficiaries in the manner and at
 
the time described in Article V of the Plan. No additional benefits shall be earned after termination of the Plan.
     8.1 . The terms used in the Plan that are defined in the Basic Plans shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Basic Plans, unless otherwise defined in the Plan.
Definitions
     8.2 . Participants and Beneficiaries shall be unsecured general creditors, with no secured or preferential right to any assets of the Company, any other Employer, or any other party for payment of benefits under the Plan. Obligations of the Company and each other Employer under the Plan shall be an unfunded and unsecured promise to pay money in the future.
Unsecured General Creditor
     8.3 . In the event that the Internal Revenue Service prevails in its claim that that any amount of a Participant's benefit payable pursuant to the Plan and held in the general assets of the Company or any other Employer constitutes taxable income under Code Section 409A, and guidance and regulations thereunder, to a Participant or his or her Beneficiary for any taxable year prior to the taxable year in which such amount is distributed to him or her, or in the event that legal counsel satisfactory to the Company and the applicable Participant or his or her Beneficiary renders an opinion that the Internal Revenue Service would likely prevail in such a claim, the amount of such benefit held in the general assets of the Company or any other Employer, to the extent constituting such taxable income, shall be immediately distributed to the Participant or his or her Beneficiary. For purposes of this Section, the Internal Revenue Service shall be deemed to have prevailed in a claim if such claim is upheld by a court of final jurisdiction, or if the Participant or Beneficiary, based upon an opinion of legal counsel
Income Tax Payout
 
satisfactory to the Company and the Participant or his or her Beneficiary, fails to appeal a decision of the Internal Revenue Service, or a court of applicable jurisdiction, with respect to such claim, to an appropriate Internal Revenue Service appeals authority or to a court of higher jurisdiction within the appropriate time period.
     8.4 . Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all terms and conditions of a Basic Plan applicable to a Basic Plan benefit shall also be applicable to a benefit payable hereunder. Any Basic Plan benefit shall be paid solely in accordance with the terms and conditions of the applicable Basic Plan and nothing in the Plan shall operate or be construed in any way to modify, amend or affect the terms and provisions of the Basic Plan.
General Conditions
     8.5 . Nothing contained in the Plan shall constitute a guaranty by the Company or any other Employer or any other entity or person that the assets of the Company or any other Employer will be sufficient to pay any benefit hereunder.
No Guaranty of Benefits
     8.6 . No Participant or Beneficiary shall have any right to a benefit under the Plan except in accordance with the terms of the Plan. Establishment of the Plan shall not be construed to give any Participant or Beneficiary the right to be retained in the service of the Company or any Affiliated Company.
No Enlargement of Employee Rights
     8.7 . No interest of any person or entity in, or right to receive a benefit under, the Plan shall be subject in any manner to sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, attachment, garnishment, or other alienation or encumbrance of any kind; nor may such interest or right to receive a benefit be taken, either voluntarily or involuntarily, for the satisfaction of the debts of, or other obligations or claims against, such person or entity, including claims for alimony, support, separate maintenance, and claims in bankruptcy proceedings.
Spendthrift Provision
 
     Notwithstanding the preceding paragraph, the benefit of any Participant shall be subject to and payable in the amount determined in accordance with any qualified domestic relations order, as that term is defined in ERISA Section 206(d)(3). The Committee shall provide for payment of such benefit to an alternate payee (as defined in ERISA Section 206(d)(3)) as soon as administratively possible following receipt of such order. Any federal, state or local income tax associated with such payment shall be the responsibility of the alternate payee. The benefit that is subject to any qualified domestic relations order shall be reduced by the amount of any payment made pursuant to such order.
     8.8 . The Plan shall be construed and administered under the laws of the State of Indiana, except to the extent preempted by applicable federal law.
Applicable Law
     8.9 . If any person entitled to a benefit payment under the Plan is deemed by the Committee to be incapable of personally receiving and giving a valid receipt for such payment, then, unless and until claim therefore shall have been made by a duly appointed guardian or other legal representative of such person, the Committee may provide for such payment or any part thereof to be made to any other person or institution then contributing toward or providing for the care and maintenance of such person. Any such payment shall be a payment for the account of such person and a complete discharge of any liability of the Company, any other Employer, the Committee and the Plan therefore.
Incapacity of Recipient
     8.10 . Each Participant shall keep the Committee informed of his or her current address and the current address of his or her Beneficiaries. The Committee shall not be obligated to search for the whereabouts of any person. If the location of a Participant is not made known to the Committee within three years after the date on which payment of the Participant's benefit may first be made, payment may be made as though the Participant had died
Unclaimed Benefit
 
at the end of the three-year period. If, within one additional year after such three-year period has elapsed, or, within three years after the actual death of a Participant, the Committee is unable to locate any Beneficiary of the Participant, then the Committee shall have no further obligation to pay any benefit hereunder to such Participant, Beneficiary, or any other person and such benefit shall be irrevocably forfeited.
     8.11 . Notwithstanding any of the preceding provisions of the Plan, none of the Company, any other Employer, or any individual acting as an employee, or agent at the direction of the Company or any other Employer, or any member of the Committee, shall be liable to any Participant, former Participant, Beneficiary, or any other person for any claim, loss, liability or expense incurred in connection with the Plan.
Limitations on Liability
     8.12 . Claims for benefits under the Plan shall be made in writing to the Committee. If the Committee wholly or partially denies a claim for benefits, the Committee shall, within a reasonable period of time, but no later than 90 days after receiving the claim, notify the claimant in writing of the denial of the claim. If the Committee fails to notify the claimant in writing of the denial of the claim within 90 days after the Committee receives it, the claim shall be deemed denied. A notice of denial shall be written in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant, and shall contain:
Claims Procedure
 
     (d) an explanation of the Plan's review procedure.
Within 60 days of the receipt by the claimant of the written notice of denial of the claim, or within 60 days after the claim is deemed denied as set forth above, if applicable, the claimant may file a written request with the Committee that it conduct a full and fair review of the denial of the claimant's claim for benefits, including the conducting of a hearing, if the Committee deems one necessary. In connection with the claimant's appeal of the denial of his or her benefit, the claimant may review pertinent documents and may submit issues and comments in writing. The Committee shall render a decision on the claim appeal promptly, but not later than 60 days after receiving the claimant's request for review, unless, in the discretion of the Committee, special circumstances (such as the need to hold a hearing) require an extension of time for processing, in which case the 60-day period may be extended to 120 days. The Committee shall notify the claimant in writing of any such extension. The decision upon review shall (i) include specific reasons for the decision, (ii) be written in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant, and (iii) contain specific references to the pertinent Plan provisions upon which the decision is based.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, NiSource Inc. has caused this amended and restated Plan to be executed in its name, by its duly authorized officer, on this 2nd day of December, 2005, effective as of January 1, 2005.
 
NiSource Inc. and Northern Indiana Public Service Company Pension Plan Provisions Pertaining to Salaried and Non-Exempt Employees
NiSource Subsidiary Pension Plan
Retirement Plan of Columbia Energy Group Companies
Bay State Gas Company Pension Plan

 
Exhibit 10.6
 
 
 
          Effective as of December 23, 1982, and as subsequently amended as of January 1, 1989, Northern Indiana Public Service Company adopted the Northern Indiana Public Service Company Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan. Effective as of January 1, 1991, NIPSCO Industries, Inc. (the "Company") adopted the NIPSCO Industries, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (the "Plan") to benefit the Company by providing key executives and employees with additional security in order to aid the Company in retaining its present management and, should circumstances require it, to aid the Company in attracting additions to management. The Company, by providing such additional benefits, expects key executives and employees to be available for consulting assignments to the Company after retirement, at the Company's request. The Plan was amended and restated, effective January 1, 1993, in order to clarify certain provisions, and was further amended and restated effective September 1, 1994. The Plan was further amended and restated effective June 1, 2002 to reflect the name change of the Company to NiSource Inc. and to make other administrative and technical changes. The Plan was further amended, effective January 1, 2004, to reflect changes in the structure of benefits under the Plan. The Plan is now further amended and restated, effective January 1, 2005, as set forth below, to comply with Internal Revenue Code Section 409A with respect to benefits earned under the Plan from and after January 1, 2005. Benefits under the Plan earned and vested prior to January 1, 2005 shall be administered without giving effect to Code Section 409A, and guidance and regulations thereunder.
          It is intended that the Plan be exempt from the reporting and disclosure requirements of Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 because it is an unfunded plan maintained by an employer for the purpose of providing benefits for a select group of management or highly compensated employees.
          Where the following words or phrases appear in the Plan, they shall have the respective meanings set forth in the following Sections of this Article, unless the context clearly indicates to the contrary.
          2.1 . Any corporation that is a member of a controlled group of corporations (as defined in Code Section 414(b)) that includes the Company; any trade or business (whether or not incorporated) that is under common control (as defined in Code Section 414(c)) with the
Affiliate
 
Company; any organization (whether or not incorporated) that is a member of an affiliated service group (as defined in Code Section 414(m)) that includes the Company; any leasing organization, to the extent that its employees are required to be treated as if they were employed by the Company pursuant to Code Section 414(n) and the regulations thereunder; and any other entity required to be aggregated with the Company pursuant to regulations under Code Section 414(o). An entity shall be an Affiliate only with respect to the existing period as described in the preceding sentence.
          2.2 . The Board of Directors of NiSource Inc.
Board
          2.3 . The Internal Revenue of Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
          2.4 . The Officer Nomination and Compensation Committee of the Board, which has certain specific duties with respect to the Plan.
Committee
          2.5 . NiSource Inc. and its subsidiaries and affiliates that adopt the Plan for the benefit of key employees, or its successor or successors.
Company
          2.6 . As defined in the NiSource Pension Plan, but disregarding the definition of Taxable Compensation and the limitations required by Code Section 401(a)(17), or any successor Section. In addition, for purposes of the Plan, bonuses shall be considered in full as Compensation and not limited to 50% of base pay.
Compensation
          2.7 . A Participant has a Disability or is Disabled if he or she has a condition that (a) causes a Participant to be unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months, (b) causes a Participant, by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment that can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months, to receive income replacement benefits for a period of not less than three months under an accident and health plan covering employees of the Company or an Affiliate or (c) causes a Participant to be eligible to receive Social Security disability payments.
Disability or Disabled
          2.8 . Separation from Service for reasons other than death or Disability after the Participant has both attained age 55 and completed at least 10 years of Service, but before the Participant's Normal Retirement, except as otherwise provided.
Early Retirement
          2.9 . The result obtained by dividing the total Compensation paid to a Participant during a considered period by the number of months for which such Compensation was received. The considered period shall be the 60 consecutive calendar months within the last 120 months of service that produces the highest result.
Final Average Compensation
          2.10 . NiSource Inc. and Northern Indiana Public Service Company Pension Plan Provisions Pertaining to Salaried and Non-Exempt Employees, as amended from time to time.
NiSource Pension Plan
 
          2.11 . Separation from Service for reasons other than death or Disability after a Participant has: (1) attained age 62; or (2) attained age 60 and completed at least 25 years of Service, except as otherwise provided.
Normal Retirement
          2.12 . An employee or retiree participating in the Plan in accordance with the provisions of Article III.
Participant
          2.13 . A series of monthly amounts that are payable to a person who is entitled to receive benefits under the Plan.
Pension
          2.14 . Pension Restoration Plan for NiSource Inc. and Affiliates, as amended from time to time.
Pension Restoration Plan
          2.15 . NiSource Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan.
Plan
          2.16 . The portion of a Participant's Supplemental Retirement Pension or Supplemental Retirement Account, as applicable, equal to the present value, determined as of a Participant's date of separation from Service after December 31, 2004, of the excess of such benefit or account balance to which a Participant would be entitled under the Plan if he or she voluntarily separated from Service without cause after December 31, 2004 over his or her Pre-2005 Benefit and received a full payment of benefits from the Plan on the earliest possible date allowed under the Plan following the separation from Service, pursuant to Articles IV and V, calculated from and after January 1, 2005 to the date of separation from Service.
Post-2004 Benefit
          2.17 . The portion of a Participant's Supplemental Retirement Pension or Supplemental Retirement Account, as applicable, equal to the present value of the benefit or account balance, determined as of December 31, 2004, to which a Participant would be entitled under the Plan if he or she voluntarily separated from Service without cause on December 31, 2004 and received a full payment of benefits from the Plan on the earliest possible date allowed under the Plan following separation from Service, pursuant to Articles IV and V, calculated as of December 31, 2004.
Pre-2005 Benefit
          2.18 . The monthly amount available to a Participant at age 65 (or at Retirement, if later) under the provisions of Title II of the Social Security Act in effect at the time of separation from Service, assuming the following:
Primary Social Security Benefit
          2.19 . The NiSource Pension Plan and any other tax-qualified defined benefit pension plan maintained by the Company or any Affiliate.
Qualified Pension Plan
 
          2.20 . A Participant's Normal or Early Retirement.
Retirement
          2.21 . The NiSource Inc. and Affiliates Retirement Plan Administrative and Investment Committee.
Retirement Committee
          2.22 . A Participant's or employee's employment or service with the Company, as defined in the NiSource Pension Plan, or such other employment or service date as determined by the Board.
Service
          The Board or the Committee shall select which key employees of the Company will participate in the Plan. In accordance with Article I, it is intended that officers and certain other employees be eligible for participation.
          After the Board or the Committee approves participation for an individual, the Company or the Committee shall provide the individual with a notice of participation in the Plan and a description of the Plan.
          4.1 . This Article IV shall apply to each Participant or former Participant who first participated in the Plan prior to January 23, 2004.
Applicability
          4.2 . Upon Normal Retirement, a Participant shall receive a monthly Supplemental Retirement Pension calculated on a single-life basis equal to the larger of (a) or (b) below, reduced in each case by the single-life pension (excluding any supplements related to eligibility for a Social Security benefit) the Participant is eligible to receive under (1) either the Final Average Pay Option or the Account Balance Option of the NiSource Pension Plan, or any other Qualified Pension Plan and (2) the Pension Restoration Plan.
Supplemental Retirement Pension
 
          Upon Early Retirement, a Participant shall receive a monthly Supplemental Retirement Pension in a reduced amount (as described in Section 4.3 below).
          4.3 . A Participant who experiences a separation from Service prior to Normal Retirement, but after Early Retirement, shall receive a monthly Supplemental Retirement Pension in an amount determined in accordance with Section 4.2 above, but reduced as follows: (1) by 6% for each of the first two (2) years and 4% for each of the next five years that commencement of the Participant's Supplemental Retirement Pension precedes the date that the Participant would attain age 62; or (2) if the Participant had completed 25 years of Service at the time of his or her separation, by 6% for the first year and 4% for each of the next four years that commencement of the Participant's Supplemental Retirement Pension precedes the date that the Participant would attain age 60, with a pro rata reduction for any fraction of a year.
Reduction for Early Retirement
          Payment of the Participant's monthly reduced Supplemental Retirement Pension shall normally commence within 45 days following a separation from Service, or, if later, within such timeframe permitted under Code Section 409A, and guidance and regulations thereunder. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, a Participant may elect to defer the commencement of the portion of his or her reduced Supplemental Retirement Pension that constitutes the Pre-2005 Benefit to any date between Early Retirement and attainment of age 62 by a written election delivered to the Retirement Committee on or before the last day of the calendar year preceding the calendar year of Early Retirement. A Participant may elect to defer the commencement of the portion of his or her reduced Supplemental Retirement Pension that constitutes the Post-2004 Benefit to any date between Early Retirement and attainment of age 62 by a written election delivered to the Retirement Committee only if such election (i) constitutes a delay in payment or change in the form of payment, (ii) does not take effect until at least 12 months after the date on which the election is made, (iii) defers the first payment with respect to which such new election is effective for a period of not less than five years from the date such payment would otherwise have been made, and (iv) is not made less than 12 months prior to the date of the first scheduled payment.
          4.4 . Upon separation from Service prior to Early Retirement, a Participant shall receive a monthly Supplemental Retirement Pension, calculated on a single-life basis equal to the excess, if any, of the single-life pension the Participant would be eligible to receive under either the Final Average Pay Option or the
Separation from Service Prior to Early Retirement
 
Account Balance Option of the NiSource Pension Plan, or any other Qualified Pension Plan, if the limitations required by Code Sections 401(a)(17) and 415, or any other limitation imposed by the Code, the limitation on bonuses to 50% of base pay and the potential limitations relating to Taxable Compensation were not applied, reduced by the single-life pension the Participant is eligible to receive under (1) either such Option of the NiSource Pension Plan, or any other Qualified Pension Plan and (2) the Pension Restoration Plan.
          Payment of the Pre-2005 Benefit to a Participant or his or her beneficiary in accordance with this Section shall commence on the same date as the pension under the NiSource Pension Plan or any other Qualified Pension Plan. Payment of the Post-2004 Benefit to a Participant or his or her beneficiary in accordance with this Section, shall commence within 45 days after (i) the Participant attains (or would have attained) age 62, if the Participant has not completed at least 25 years of Service, or (ii) if the Participant has completed at least 25 years of Service, the Participant attains (or would have attained) age 60, or, if later, within such timeframe permitted under Code Section 409A, and guidance and regulations thereunder.
          4.5 . If a Participant becomes Disabled while in the active employment of the Company prior to age 65, the Participant shall be eligible for a monthly Supplemental Disability Pension commencing on the date the Disability begins and continuing to the first to occur of the Participant's death or attainment of age 65, calculated on a single-life basis, and equal to the larger of (a) or (b) below, reduced in each case by the basic benefit the Participant is eligible to receive under the long-term group disability insurance coverage provided under any long term disability plan maintained by the Company or any Affiliate.
Supplemental Disability Pension
          After age 65, the Participant shall be eligible for a monthly Supplemental Retirement Pension in accordance with Section 4.2, based on Service the Participant would have had if the
 
Participant had continued working for the Company or an Affiliate to age 65, the Participant's Final Average Compensation at the time he or she became Disabled, the Primary Social Security Benefit determined at the time the Participant became Disabled, and the single-life pension the Participant is entitled to receive at age 65 from the NiSource Pension Plan, or any other Qualified Pension Plan, and the Pension Restoration Plan, determined at the time he or she became Disabled.
          4.6 . Upon the death of a Participant in active employment or while receiving a Supplemental Disability Pension, his or her surviving spouse, if any, shall be eligible to receive a monthly Supplemental Spouse Pension equal to the greater of:
Supplemental Spouse Pension
          The Supplemental Spouse Pension shall commence in the month next following the month of the Participant's death and continue for the life of such spouse. In the event that the Supplemental Spouse Pension calculated under option (a) of this Section will provide a greater benefit to the spouse immediately following the Participant's death, but option (b) of this Section will provide a greater monthly benefit as of the date the Participant would have attained age 55, the amount of monthly Supplemental Spouse Pension payable to the surviving spouse shall be: (1) calculated and payable under option (a) during the period immediately following the Participant's death; and (2) recalculated and payable according to option (b) beginning on the date the Participant would have attained age 55. Beginning on the earliest date that the surviving spouse could have begun receiving a benefit under the NiSource Pension Plan, or any other Qualified Pension Plan, the Supplemental Spouse Pension payable under this Section shall be reduced by the amount of benefit under the NiSource Pension Plan, or any other Qualified Pension Plan, and the Pension Restoration Plan that the spouse is (or would have been) entitled to receive.
          4.7 . Upon the death of a retired Participant, a lump sum death benefit equal to 50% of his or her retiree group life insurance coverage shall be paid to the retiree's spouse or other beneficiaries designated with respect to such coverage.
Retiree Death Benefit
          4.8 . For Participants in the Final Average Pay Option of the NiSource Pension Plan, the benefits payable under Sections 4.2 through 4.7 shall be increased in the same percentage and at the same time as cost of living adjustments are made to the pensions of salaried employees of the Company or an Affiliate under the NiSource Pension Plan, or any other Qualified Pension Plan.
Cost of Living Adjustment
 
          4.9 . Notwithstanding Sections 2.6 and 2.22, each Participant who first becomes eligible to participate in the Plan on and after January 1, 2004 and prior to January 23, 2004 shall have his or her Supplemental Retirement Pension determined based upon his or her Service and Compensation as set forth in a separate, written agreement, if any, between the Company and such Participant.
Separate Agreement
          5.1 . This Article V shall apply to each Participant who first participates in the Plan on and after January 23, 2004.
Applicability
          5.2 . A Participant's Supplemental Retirement Account is a notional account equal to the sum of his or her Compensation Credits, Supplemental Credits, if any, and Interest Credits. Compensation Credits shall be credited to a Participant's Supplemental Retirement Account as of the last day of each Plan Year beginning on or after January 1, 2004 equal to five percent of the Participant's Compensation for such Plan Year. Supplemental Credits, if any, shall be credited pursuant to Section 5.3. Interest Credits shall be calculated in the same manner and shall be credited to a Participant's Supplemental Retirement Account at the same time as provided under the NiSource Pension Plan or any other Qualified Pension Plan.
Supplemental Retirement Account
          5.3 . The Committee, subject to approval of the Board, may authorize Supplemental Credits to a Participant's Supplemental Retirement Account in such amounts and at such times, and subject to such specific terms and provisions, as authorized by the Committee.
Supplemental Credits
          5.4 . Upon separation from Service, for any reason other than death, with five or more years of Service, unless a shorter period is provided in a separate, written agreement between the Company and the Participant and approved by the Board, a Participant shall receive the balance of his or her Supplemental Retirement Account distributed in accordance with Sections 6.1 and 6.2 within 45 days after such separation from Service, or, if later, within such timeframe permitted under Code Section 409A, and guidance and regulations thereunder.
Separation from Service
          5.5 . Upon the death of a Participant prior to final distribution of his or her Supplemental Retirement Account after completing five or more years of Service, unless a shorter period is provided in a separate, written agreement between the Company and the Participant and approved by the Board, the Participant's beneficiary, designated in such manner as provided by the Committee, shall receive the balance of the Participant's Supplemental Retirement Account distributed in accordance with Sections 6.1 and 6.2. If the Participant designates multiple beneficiaries, he or she shall designate the percentage, in whole numbers, allocated to each such beneficiary.
Death
 
          If any Participant fails to designate a beneficiary in the manner provided above, if the designation is void or if the beneficiary designated by a deceased Participant dies before the Participant or before complete distribution of the Participant's benefits, the Participant's beneficiary shall be the person in the first of the following classes in which there is a survivor:
          6.1 . This Section 6.1 applies only to a Pre-2005 Benefit.
Pre-2005 Benefit
          6.2 . This Section 6.2 applies only to a Post-2004 Benefit.
Post-2004 Benefit
 
 
          7.1 . Except as set forth below in this Section and in Section 8.5, benefits under the Plan shall be paid from the general assets of the Company. To the extent any Participant or surviving spouse or other designated beneficiary acquires a right to receive payments hereunder, such right shall be no greater than the right of any other unsecured creditor of the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company has entered into a trust agreement ("Trust Agreement") whereby the Company agrees to contribute to a trust ("Trust") for the purpose of accumulating assets to assist the Company in fulfilling its obligations to Participants and surviving spouses or other designated beneficiaries hereunder. Such Trust includes the provision that all assets of the Trust shall be subject to the creditors of the Company in the event of its insolvency.
Plan Financing
 
          7.2 . Benefits under the Plan may be forfeited if:
Non-Compete and Related Provisions
          7.3 . Participation in the Plan does not limit the right of the Company or an Affiliate to discharge any individual with or without cause.
Nonguarantee of Employment
          7.4 . Neither a Participant, nor a surviving spouse or other designated beneficiary may assign or transfer any benefits under the Plan.
Nonalienation of Benefits
          7.5 . The Committee may amend any provision of the Plan. In addition, the Chief Executive Officer of the Company may amend any provision of the Plan, except for Articles III, IV and V, which may only be amended by the Committee. The Committee may terminate the Plan at any time, except that any benefits that are payable due to a Retirement, death, Disability, or other separation from Service occurring prior to the amendment or termination shall not be reduced or discontinued. No amendment or termination of the Plan shall directly or indirectly deprive any current or former Participant (or surviving spouse) of all or any portion of any Supplemental Retirement Benefit, Supplemental Disability Pension, Supplemental Spouse Pension, or Supplemental Retirement Account, the payment of which has commenced prior to the effective date of such amendment or termination, or which would be payable if the Participant experienced a separation from Service for any reason on such effective date. Upon termination of the Plan, distribution of a Participant's Supplemental Retirement
Plan Amendment or Termination
 
Benefits, Supplemental Disability Pension, Supplemental Retirement Account, or Supplemental Spouse Pension shall be made to the Participant or his or her surviving spouse or beneficiary in the manner and at the time described in Articles IV, V and VI of the Plan. In addition, no additional Supplemental Retirement Benefits, Supplemental Disability Pension, Supplemental Spouse Pension, or Compensation Credits or Supplemental Credits under a Supplemental Retirement Account, shall be earned after termination of the Plan, except as provided in Section 8.3.
          7.6 .
Indemnification
 
          7.7 . Any action required of, or permitted by, the Company under the Plan shall be by resolution of the Committee, or by a person or persons authorized by resolution of the Committee.
Action by Company
          7.8 . A Participant shall cooperate with the Company by furnishing any and all information requested by the Company and its Affiliates in order to facilitate the payment of benefits hereunder, and by taking such physical examinations as the Company and its Affiliates may deem necessary and taking such other action as may be requested by the Company and its Affiliates.
Protective Provisions
          7.9 . The provisions of the Plan shall be construed and interpreted according to the laws of the State of Indiana, except as preempted by federal law.
Governing Law
          7.10 . Any notice required or permitted under the Plan shall be sufficient if in writing and hand delivered or sent by registered or certified mail. Such notice shall be deemed as given as of the date of delivery or, if delivery is made by mail, as of the date shown on the postmark on the receipt for registration or certification. Mailed notice to the Committee shall be directed to the Company's address. Mailed notice to a Participant, a surviving spouse or other designated beneficiary shall be directed to the individual's last known address in the Company's records.
Notice
          7.11 . The provisions of the Plan shall bind and inure to the benefit of the Company, its Affiliates and their successors and assigns. The term successors as used herein shall include any corporate or other business entity that shall, whether by merger, consolidation, purchase, or otherwise, acquire all or substantially all of the business and assets of the Company, and successors of any such corporation or other business entity.
Successors
          7.12 . Unless otherwise provided in the Plan, all actuarial adjustments necessary to determine the amount, form or timing of any distribution shall be based on the same actuarial assumptions used for the pension a Participant is eligible to receive under the NiSource Pension Plan.
Actuarial Assumptions
          7.13 .
Tax Savings
 
          8.1 A "Change in Control" shall be deemed to take place on the occurrence of either a "Change in Ownership," "Change in Effective Control" or a "Change of Ownership of a Substantial Portion of Assets," as defined below:
Change in Control
.
 
 
          8.2 . A "Potential Change in Control" shall include any of the following:
Potential Change in Control
 
          8.3 . With respect to a Participant who, pursuant to contract with the Company, is entitled to compensation from the Company for an additional 36 months in the event that after a Change in Control the Participant's employment is terminated by the Company or an Affiliate under circumstances described in the contract, such Participant's years of Service under Article II, and Supplemental Retirement Pension under Section 4.2 or Supplemental Retirement Account under Section 5.2, as applicable, shall be calculated as if the Participant had continued in employment with the Company for an additional 36 months at the rate of Compensation in effect immediately prior to his or her employment termination; provided that, in no event shall the counting of a Participant's Compensation during this 36-month period reduce his or her Final Average Compensation figure below its highest level prior to the Participant's separation from Service.
Additional Service and Compensation Upon Change in Control
          8.4 . A Participant who separates from service within 24 months following a Change in Control for any reason other than a termination by the Company for Good Cause, but prior to Early Retirement, shall be eligible for the Supplemental Retirement Pension specified in Section 4.2, rather than the Supplemental Retirement Pension specified in Section 4.4, commencing at Normal Retirement. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, such a Participant may elect to begin receiving the portion of his or her Supplemental Retirement Pension that constitutes his or her Pre-2005 Benefit pursuant to this Section 8.4 at any time after attaining age 55 years, subject to the reduction specified in Section 4.3. Such election shall have no effect on the distribution of his or her Post-2004 Benefit at his or her Normal Retirement Date.
Waiver of Service and Age Requirements Upon Change in Control
          8.5 . Upon a Potential Change in Control, the Committee shall identify the amount by which the present value of all benefits earned to date under the Plan (after offsets) exceeds the then fair market value of the applicable Trust assets, calculated using the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation immediate annuity interest rate as of the date of the Potential Change in Control, the 1983 GAM mortality tables, and the most valuable optional payment form (the "Full Funding Amount"), and the Company shall contribute such Full Funding Amount to the Trust. Each Participant's benefits for purposes of calculating present value shall be the highest benefit the Participant would have under the Plan within the six months following a Potential Change in Control, assuming that the Participant's employment continues for six months at the same rate of Compensation, and that
Funding of Plan Benefits Upon Potential Change in Control
 
the Participant receives any benefit enhancement provided by the Plan, or any other agreement, upon a Change in Control.
          8.6 . Upon and after a Change in Control, the Company no longer shall have the power to appoint or remove members of the Committee, nor the power to approve legal counsel or actuaries employed by the Committee. Upon and after a Change in Control, only the Committee members shall have the power to appoint or remove members. If, at any time after a Change in Control, all members of the Committee have been removed or resigned, then all of the powers, rights and duties vested in the Committee by Article IX below shall be vested in the trustee of the Trust.
Plan Administration and Amendment Upon a Change in Control
          8.7 . Upon and after a Change in Control, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, distribute, or cause the trustee under the Trust to distribute, to a Participant or a surviving spouse, the present value (determined in accordance with the assumptions in Section 7.12) of the Participant's Pre-2005 Benefit, or the portion of Supplemental Disability Pension or the surviving spouse's Supplemental Spouse Pension attributable to his or her Pre-2005 Benefit, payable under the Plan in a lump sum payment. The Committee shall distribute, or cause the trustee under the Trust to distribute, the present value of the Participant's Post-2004 Benefit.
Committee Discretion to Pay Lump Sum After a Change in Control
          8.8 . Each calendar year, a Participant shall have the right to elect to receive the present value (determined in accordance with the assumptions in Section 7.12) of the portion of the Participant's Supplemental Retirement Pension or the balance of the Participant's Supplemental Retirement Account that constitutes the Participant's Pre-2005 Benefit or the Participant's Supplemental Disability Pension, in a lump sum if:
Lump Sum Election
Such election shall be irrevocable for the calendar year to which it applies. A distribution pursuant to this Section 8.8 shall be made as soon as practicable following the Participant's separation from Service. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Section 8.8, a Participant had the right to make the election set forth in this Section at any time during the first three (3) months of calendar year 2003 with respect to a Change in Control that occurred during
 
the last nine (9) months of calendar year 2003. Any such election was irrevocable for calendar year 2003 and was subject to the other provisions of this Section 8.8.
          8.9 .
Definitions
          9.1 . The Committee has the following powers, rights and duties in addition to those given it elsewhere in the Plan:
General Powers, Rights and Duties
 
          9.2 . The Company shall furnish the Committee with such data and information as the Committee may deem necessary or desirable in order to administer the Plan. The records of the Company as to an employee's or Participant's period or periods of employment, separation from Service and the reason therefore, reemployment and Compensation will be conclusive on all persons unless determined to the Committee's satisfaction to be incorrect. Participants and other persons entitled to benefits under the Plan also shall furnish the Committee with such evidence, data or information as the Committee considers necessary or desirable to administer the Plan.
Information Required by Committee
          9.3 . Subject to applicable law, and the provisions of Section 9.4, any interpretation of the provisions of the Plan and any decision on any matter within the discretion of the Committee made by the Committee in good faith shall be binding on all persons. To the extent not inconsistent with the Plan, all definitions, terms and provisions set forth in the NiSource Pension Plan, including with respect to the administrative powers and duties of the Committee, the expenses of administration, and the procedures for filing claims, also shall be applicable with respect to the Plan.
Committee Decision Final
          9.4 . Claims for benefits under the Plan shall be made in writing to the Committee. If the Committee wholly or partially denies a claim for benefits, the Committee shall, within a reasonable period of time, but no later than 90 days after receiving the claim, notify the claimant in writing of the denial of the claim. If the Committee fails to notify the claimant in writing of the denial of the claim within 90 days after the Committee receives it, the claim shall be deemed denied. A notice of denial shall be written in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant, and shall contain:
Claims Procedure
 
          Within 60 days of the receipt by the claimant of the written notice of denial of the claim, or within 60 days after the claim is deemed denied as set forth above, if applicable, the claimant may file a written request with the Committee that it conduct a full and fair review of the denial of the claimant's claim for benefits, including the conducting of a hearing, if the Committee deems one necessary. In connection with the claimant's appeal of the denial of his or her benefit, the claimant may review pertinent documents and may submit issues and comments in writing. The Committee shall render a decision on the claim appeal promptly, but not later than 60 days after receiving the claimant's request for review, unless, in the discretion of the Committee, special circumstances (such as the need to hold a hearing) require an extension of time for processing, in which case the 60-day period may be extended to 120 days. The Committee shall notify the claimant in writing of any such extension. The decision upon review shall (1) include specific reasons for the decision, (2) be written in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant, and (3) contain specific references to the pertinent Plan provisions upon which the decision is based.
          , the Company has caused this amendment and restatement of the Plan to be executed in its name by its duly authorized officer this 2nd day of December, 2005, effective as of the 1st day of January, 2005.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF

 
Exhibit 10.7
          NiSource Inc. (the "Company") maintains the NiSource Inc. Executive Severance Policy as amended and restated effective January 1, 2005 (the "Policy"); and
WHEREAS,
          , The Company has reserved the right to amend the Policy and now deems it appropriate to do so.
WHEREAS
          the Policy is hereby amended to extend its term to January 31, 2006.
NOW, THEREFORE,
          the Company has caused this First Amendment to be executed on its behalf, by its officer duly authorized, this 2nd day of December, 2005.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,

 
Exhibit 10.8
 
 
     The NiSource Inc. Nonemployee Director Retirement Plan (the "Plan") was established to assist the Company in attracting and retaining individuals of superior talent, ability and achievement to serve on its Board of Directors. The Plan was originally adopted effective January 1, 1991, and was amended and restated effective January 1, 2002 to cover only Nonemployee Directors serving on the Board of Directors on December 31, 2001, who elected to continue participation in the Plan on and after June 1, 2002.
     The Plan is now further amended and restated effective January 1, 2005, as set forth below, to comply with Internal Revenue Code (the "Code") Section 409A, and guidance and regulations thereunder, with respect to benefits earned under the Plan from and after January 1, 2005. Benefits under the Plan earned and vested prior to January 1, 2005 shall be administered in accordance with the Plan then in effect and without regard to Code Section 409A and regulations thereunder.
     The following words and phrases shall have the meanings set forth below unless a different meaning is required by the context:
     "Annual Retainer" means the amount paid by the Company to each Nonemployee Director as annual compensation for Service as a Director and as a member of any committee of the Board and as chairman of any such committee, which amount is exclusive of any Board or committee meeting fees, or remuneration under other plans, agreements or policies.
2.1
     "Board" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
2.2
 
     "Change in Control" means the occurrence of either a "Change in Ownership," "Change in Effective Control" or a "Change of Ownership of a Substantial Portion of Assets," as defined below:
2.3
     (a) . A Change in Ownership of the Company occurs on the date that any one person, or more than one Person Acting as a Group (as defined below), acquires ownership of stock of the Company that, together with stock held by such person or group, constitutes more than 50% of the total fair market value or total voting power of the stock of the Company. However, if any one person or more than one Person Acting as a Group, is considered to own more than 50% of the total fair market value or total voting power of the stock of the Company, the acquisition of additional stock by the same person or persons is not considered to cause a Change in Ownership of the Company (or to cause a Change in Effective Control of the Company). An increase in the percentage of stock owned by any one person, or Persons Acting as a Group, as a result of a transaction in which the Company acquires its stock in exchange for property shall be treated as an acquisition of stock. This subsection (a) applies only when there is a transfer of stock of the Company (or issuance of stock of the Company) and stock in the Company remains outstanding after the transaction.
Change in Ownership
     (b) . A Change in Effective Control of the Company occurs on the date that either 
Change in Effective Control
     (i) any one person, or more than one Person Acting as a Group, acquires (or has acquired during the 12-month period ending on the date of the most recent acquisition by such person or persons) ownership of stock of the Company possessing 35% or more of the total voting power of the stock of the Company; or
     (ii) a majority of members of the Board is replaced during any 12-month period by directors whose appointment or election is not endorsed by a majority of the members of the Board prior to the date of the appointment or election.
In the absence of an event described in paragraph (i) or (ii), a Change in Effective Control of the Company shall not have occurred.
     . If any one person, or more than one Person Acting as a Group, is considered to effectively control the Company, the acquisition of additional control of the Company by the same person or persons is not considered to cause a Change in Effective Control of the Company (or to cause a Change in Ownership of the Company).
Acquisition of additional control
     (c) . A Change of Ownership of a Substantial Portion of Assets occurs on the date that any one person, or more than one Person Acting as a Group, acquires (or has acquired during the 12-month
Change of Ownership of a Substantial Portion of Assets
 
period ending on the date of the most recent acquisition by such person or persons) assets from the Company that have a total gross fair market value equal to or more than 40% of the total gross fair market value of all of the assets of the Company immediately prior to such acquisition or acquisitions. For this purpose, gross fair market value means the value of the assets of the Company, or the value of the assets being disposed of, determined without regard to any liabilities associated with such assets.
     . There is no Change in Control when there is a transfer to an entity that is controlled by the shareholders of the Company immediately after the transfer. A transfer of assets by the Company is not treated as a Change of Ownership of a Substantial Portion of Assets if the assets are transferred to 
Transfers to a related person
     (i) a shareholder of the Company (immediately before the asset transfer) in exchange for or with respect to its stock;
     (ii) an entity, 50% or more of the total value or voting power of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company;
     (iii) a person, or more than one Person Acting as a Group, that owns, directly or indirectly, 50% or more of the total value or voting power of all the outstanding stock of the Company; or
     (iv) an entity, at least 50% of the total value or voting power of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by a person described in paragraph (iii) next above.
            A person's status is determined immediately after the transfer of Company assets. For example, a transfer to a corporation in which the Company has no ownership interest before the transaction, but which is a majority-owned subsidiary of the Company after the transaction is not treated as a Change of Ownership of a Substantial Portion of Assets of the Company.
     (v) . Persons shall not be considered to be acting as a group solely because they purchase or own stock of the same corporation at the same time or as a result of the same public offering. However, persons will be considered to be acting as a group if they are owners of a corporation that enters into a merger, consolidation, purchase or acquisition of stock, or similar business transaction with the Company. If a person, including an entity, owns stock in both corporations that enter into a merger, consolidation, purchase or acquisition of stock, or similar transaction, such shareholder is considered to be acting as a group with other shareholders in a corporation prior to the transaction giving rise to the change and not with respect to the ownership interest in the other corporation.
Persons Acting as a Group
     "Committee" means the Corporate Governance Committee of the Board.
2.4
 
     "Company" means NiSource Inc., a Delaware corporation, including its subsidiaries and any successor organizations.
2.5
     "Director" means an individual who is a member of the Board on or after the Effective Date.
2.6
     "Disability" means a condition that (i) causes a Director to be unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment that can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months or (ii) causes a Director to be eligible to receive Social Security disability payments.
2.7
     "Effective Date" means January 1, 2005.
2.8
     "Eligible Nonemployee Director" means a Nonemployee Director who meets the eligibility requirements for retirement benefits under the Plan, as set forth in Article IV herein. "Eligible Nonemployee Director" also shall include any Nonemployee Director eligible to receive retirement benefits by virtue of a Change in Control, as set forth in Article VIII herein.
2.9
     "Nonemployee Director" means a Director who is not currently employed by the Company or any subsidiary of the Company.
2.10
     "Plan" means the NiSource Inc. Nonemployee Director Retirement Plan, including any amendments thereto.
2.11
     Service" means a Director's service on the Board as a Nonemployee Director.
2.12 "
     "Year of Service" means the 12-month period commencing with the first day of the calendar month in which each annual meeting of the shareholders of the Company takes place, and throughout which a Director served on the Board as a Nonemployee Director.
2.13
 
     The Plan shall be administered by the Committee. The Committee shall have the authority to interpret the Plan, and any such interpretation shall be final and binding upon all parties. The Board or the Committee may amend or terminate the Plan at any time, provided that no such amendment or termination shall adversely affect the amounts payable or vested under the Plan before the time of such amendment or termination. The Company shall pay all distributions pursuant to the Plan and all costs, charges and expenses related to the administration of the Plan.
     Any Eligible Nonemployee Director (as described in Section 4.2 next below) who retires, resigns or separates from Service on or after the Effective Date after having completed at least five Years of Service, shall be eligible to receive a retirement benefit calculated in accordance with Article V herein, and payable in accordance with Article VI herein.
4.1
     Any Nonemployee Director who was participating in the Plan on December 31, 2001, and (i) made an irrevocable election, by written instrument delivered to the Committee between May 21, 2002 and July 1, 2002, to continue his or her participation in the Plan on and after July 1, 2002, or (ii) failed to make a timely election to participate or terminate participation pursuant to (i) next above, shall continue to participate in the Plan as an Eligible Nonemployee Director.
4.2
     Each Eligible Nonemployee Director shall be paid monthly payments in an amount equal to one-twelfth (1/12) of the Annual Retainer in effect as of the effective date of his or her retirement, resignation or separation from Service. The number of such payments shall equal the lesser of: (i) 120 or (ii) the number of full months of Service on the Board as a Nonemployee Director.
 
     Payment of retirement benefits to an Eligible Nonemployee Director under the Plan shall be made in cash, and shall commence one month following the Director's separation from Service for any reason, or, if later, within such timeframe permitted under Code Section 409A, and guidance and regulations thereunder. For this purpose, a Director's separation from Service for Disability shall be deemed to occur on the date that the Committee designates as the date on which the definition of Disability under the Plan has been satisfied.
     In the event that an Eligible Nonemployee Director dies prior to the receipt of all retirement benefits set forth in the Plan, the Company shall pay the present value of the remaining unpaid retirement benefits owing to the Eligible Nonemployee Director under the Plan in one cash lump sum within 60 calendar days following the date of death, or, if later, within such timeframe permitted under Code Section 409A, and guidance and regulations thereunder. The interest rate to be used to determine the present value of the unpaid retirement benefits shall be the six-month U.S. Treasury Bill rate in effect on the date of death. Such payment shall he made to the surviving spouse of the Eligible Nonemployee Director, if any. If there is no surviving spouse, then the payment shall be made to the representative of the estate of the Eligible Nonemployee Director.
     In the event that an Eligible Nonemployee Director who served on the Board on the effective date of a Change in Control separates from Service within two years following the
 
effective date of a Change in Control, such Director shall receive his or her retirement benefits under the Plan in the form of a cash lump sum payment in an amount equal to the present value of the retirement benefits such Director is eligible to receive under the Plan.
     If, within two years following the effective date of a Change in Control, an Eligible Nonemployee Director who served on the Board on the effective date of the Change in Control, separates from Service on the Board prior to the time when such Director has served on the Board for five full years, such Director shall be entitled to receive a cash lump sum payment in an amount equal to 75% of the present value of the retirement benefits such Director would have been entitled to receive under the Plan had such Director served on the Board for five full years prior to separation from Service.
     For purposes of this Article VIII, the interest rate to be used to determine the present value of the unpaid retirement benefits shall be the six-month U.S. Treasury Bill rate in effect on the date of separation from Service. Payments of retirement benefits under this Article VIII shall be made within 60 calendar days following the date of separation from Service on the Board, or, if later, within such timeframe permitted under Code Section 409A, and guidance and regulations thereunder.
     In the event that the Committee determines that any payment, whether paid or payable or distributed or distributable pursuant to the Plan would be subject to the excise tax imposed by Code Section 4999, or any interest or penalty with respect to such excise tax (such excise tax together with any interest or penalties thereon are hereinafter referred to collectively as the "Excise Tax"), the Nonemployee Director subject to the Excise Tax shall be paid an additional payment (a "Gross-Up Payment") in an amount such that, after the payment by such Nonemployee Director of all taxes (together with any interest or penalties imposed with respect to such taxes), including any Excise Tax imposed upon the Gross-Up Payment, such Nonemployee Director retains an amount of the Gross-Up Payment equal to the Excise Tax imposed upon the payment of retirement benefits under the Plan.
 
     The Plan shall be a noncontributory, nonqualified and unfunded plan. Retirement benefit payments under the Plan shall represent an unsecured, general obligation of the Company, and shall be paid by the Company from its general operating assets. No special fund or trust shall be required to be created by the Company to fund the obligations under the Plan, nor shall any notes or securities be issued with respect to any retirement benefits under the Plan.
     Whenever a Nonemployee Director who is entitled to receive a payment under the Plan is a person under legal disability or a person not adjudicated incompetent but who, by reason of illness or mental or physical disability, is, in the opinion of the Committee, unable to manage properly his or her affairs, then such payments shall be paid in one of the following ways, as the Committee deems advisable: (i) to such person directly; (ii) to the legally appointed guardian or conservator of such person for his or her exclusive benefit; or (iii) in such other manner for the exclusive benefit of such person as the Committee considers advisable. Any payment made in accordance with the provisions of this Article X shall be a complete discharge of any liability of the Company for the making of such payment under the Plan.
     Neither the establishment of the Plan, nor any action taken hereunder, shall in any way obligate: (i) the Company to nominate a Nonemployee Director for reelection or to continue to retain a Nonemployee Director, or (ii) a Nonemployee Director to agree to be nominated for reelection or to continue to serve on the Board.
11.1
     Subject to the provisions of Article III hereof, the Plan may not be terminated by the Company upon any merger or consolidation with, or acquisition of the Company by, any other entity, but shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the successors and assigns of the Company, and the heirs, executors, administrators, and assigns of each Eligible Nonemployee Director.
11.2
 
     The Plan shall not affect in any way the rights of any Eligible Nonemployee Director under any other deferred compensation plan or agreement between such Director and the Company.
11.3
     The provisions of the Plan shall be construed and interpreted according to the laws of the State of Indiana, except as preempted by federal law.
11.4
     , the Company has caused this amended and restated Plan to be signed on this 2nd day of December, 2005.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF

 
Exhibit 10.9
 
 
 
     NiSource Inc. (the "Company") adopted the NiSource Inc. Nonemployee Director Stock Incentive Plan (formerly the NIPSCO Industries, Inc. Nonemployee Director Stock Incentive Plan), effective February 1, 1992, as last amended effective December 16, 1997 and February 1, 1998 ("Plan"); and
WHEREAS,
     the Company adopted the NiSource Inc. Nonemployee Director Restricted Stock Unit Plan (formerly the NIPSCO Industries, Inc. Nonemployee Director Restricted Stock Unit Plan) effective January 1, 1999 ("Stock Unit Plan"); and
WHEREAS,
     pursuant to Section 9.1 of the Plan and Section 14 of the Stock Unit Plan, the Company amended the Plan and the Stock Unit Plan in certain respects, and merged the Stock Unit Plan into the Plan and restated the merged Plan in a single document, effective July 1, 2002; and
WHEREAS,
     , the Plan was amended and restated to reflect changes in the structure of nonemployee director compensation, effective January 1, 2004; and
WHEREAS
     , pursuant to Section 9.1 of the Plan, the Company wishes to further amend and restate the Plan to comply with Internal Revenue Code Section 409A, and guidance and regulations thereunder, with respect to Awards granted and/or vested under the Plan from and after January 1, 2005.
WHEREAS
     the Plan is hereby amended and restated, effective January 1, 2005, as follows:
NOW THEREFORE,
 
     1.1 . NiSource Inc. established an incentive compensation plan known as the "NiSource Inc. Nonemployee Director Stock Incentive Plan," as set forth in this document. The Plan permits the grant of Restricted Stock, Nonqualified Stock Options and Restricted Stock Units to Nonemployee Directors, subject to the terms and provisions set forth herein.
Establishment of the Plan
     Awards granted and/or vested under the Plan from and after January 1, 2005 shall be administered in compliance with Code Section 409A, and guidance and regulations thereunder. Awards under the Plan granted, vested and freely transferable prior to January 1, 2005 shall be administered in accordance with the Plan as then in effect and without regard to Code Section 409A, and guidance and regulations thereunder.
     1.2 . The purpose of the Plan is to promote the achievement of long-term objectives of the Company by linking the personal interests of Nonemployee Directors to those of Company shareholders, enhancing the interest of Nonemployee Directors in the growth and success of the Company, and attracting and retaining Nonemployee Directors of outstanding competence.
Purpose of the Plan
     1.3 . The Plan, as amended and restated herein, is effective January 1, 2005 and shall remain in effect, subject to the right of the Committee to terminate the Plan at any time pursuant to Article IX herein, until all Shares subject to it shall have been purchased or acquired according to the Plan's provisions. However, in no event may an Award be granted under the Plan on or after June 30, 2012.
Duration of the Plan
 
     Whenever used in the Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below and, when the meaning is intended, the initial letter of the word is capitalized:
     2.1 . "Award" means, individually or collectively, a grant of Restricted Stock, Nonqualified Stock Options or Restricted Stock Units under the Plan.
Award
     2.2 . "Award Agreement" means an agreement entered into by and between the Company and a Nonemployee Director, setting forth the terms and provisions applicable to an Award granted under the Plan.
Award Agreement
     2.3 . "Board" or "Board of Directors" means the Board of Directors of the Company, and includes any committee of the Board of Directors designated by the Board to administer part or all of the Plan.
Board or Board of Directors
     2.4 . "Change in Control" means the occurrence of either a "Change in Ownership," "Change in Effective Control" or a "Change of Ownership of a Substantial Portion of Assets," as defined below:
Change in Control
     (a) . A Change in Ownership of the Company occurs on the date that any one person, or more than one Person Acting as a Group (as defined below), acquires ownership of stock of the Company that, together with stock held by such person or group, constitutes more than 50% of the total fair market value or total voting power of the stock of the Company. However, if any one person or more than one Person Acting as a Group, is considered to own more than 50% of the total fair market value or total voting power of the stock of the Company, the acquisition of additional stock by the same person or persons is not considered to cause a Change in Ownership of the Company (or to cause a Change in Effective Control of the Company). An increase in the percentage of stock owned by any one person, or Persons Acting as a Group, as a result of a transaction in which the Company acquires its stock in exchange for property will be treated as an acquisition of stock. This subsection (a) applies only when there is a transfer of stock of the Company (or issuance of stock of the Company) and stock in the Company remains outstanding after the transaction.
Change in Ownership
 
     (b) . A Change in Effective Control of the Company occurs on the date that either 
Change in Effective Control
     (i) any one person, or more than one Person Acting as a Group, acquires (or has acquired during the 12-month period ending on the date of the most recent acquisition by such person or persons) ownership of stock of the Company possessing 35% or more of the total voting power of the stock of the Company; or
     (ii) a majority of members of the Board is replaced during any 12-month period by directors whose appointment or election is not endorsed by a majority of the members of the Board prior to the date of the appointment or election.
In the absence of an event described in paragraph (i) or (ii), a Change in Effective Control of the Company shall not have occurred.
. If any one person, or more than one Person Acting as a Group, is considered to effectively control the Company, the acquisition of additional control of the Company by the same person or persons is not considered to cause a Change in Effective Control of the Company (or to cause a Change in Ownership of the Company).
Acquisition of additional control
     (c) . A Change of Ownership of a Substantial Portion of Assets occurs on the date that any one person, or more than one Person Acting as a Group, acquires (or has acquired during the 12-month period ending on the date of the most recent acquisition by such person or persons) assets from the Company that have a total gross fair market value equal to or more than 40% of the total gross fair market value of all of the assets of the Company immediately prior to such acquisition or acquisitions. For this purpose, gross fair market value means the value of the assets of the Company, or the value of the assets being disposed of, determined without regard to any liabilities associated with such assets.
Change of Ownership of a Substantial Portion of Assets
. There is no Change in Control when there is a transfer to an entity that is controlled by the shareholders of the Company immediately after the transfer. A transfer of assets by the Company is not treated as a Change of Ownership of a Substantial Portion of Assets if the assets are transferred to 
Transfers to a related person
     (i) a shareholder of the Company (immediately before the asset transfer) in exchange for or with respect to its stock;
     (ii) an entity, 50% or more of the total value or voting power of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company;
     (iii) a person, or more than one Person Acting as a Group, that owns, directly or indirectly, 50% or more of the total value or voting power of all the outstanding stock of the Company; or
 
     (iv) an entity, at least 50% of the total value or voting power of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by a person described in paragraph (iii) next above.
A person's status is determined immediately after the transfer of assets. For example, a transfer to a corporation in which the Company has no ownership interest before the transaction, but which is a majority-owned subsidiary of the Company after the transaction is not treated as a Change of Ownership of a Substantial Portion of Assets of the Company.
     (d) . Persons shall not be considered to be acting as a group solely because they purchase or own stock of the same corporation at the same time or as a result of the same public offering. However, persons will be considered to be acting as a group if they are owners of a corporation that enters into a merger, consolidation, purchase or acquisition of stock, or similar business transaction with the Company. If a person, including an entity, owns stock in both corporations that enter into a merger, consolidation, purchase or acquisition of stock, or similar transaction, such shareholder is considered to be acting as a group with other shareholders in a corporation prior to the transaction giving rise to the change and not with respect to the ownership interest in the other corporation.
Persons Acting as a Group
     2.5 . "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
Code
     2.6 . "Company" means NiSource Inc., a Delaware corporation, or any successor thereto as provided in Section 10.11 herein.
Company
     2.7 . "Committee" means the Corporate Governance Committee of the Board.
Committee
     2.8 . "Director" means any individual who is a member of the Board of Directors of the Company.
Director
     2.9 . "Disability" means a condition that (a) causes a Director to be unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment that can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than twelve months or (b) causes a Director to be eligible to receive Social Security disability payments.
Disability
 
     2.10 . "Employee" means any full-time, nonunion, salaried employee of the Company. For purposes of the Plan, an individual whose only employment relationship with the Company is as a Director shall not be deemed to be an Employee.
Employee
     2.11 . "Fair Market Value" means the average of the high and low prices on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions on the date of the grant, or on any other applicable date.
Fair Market Value
     2.12 . "Nonemployee Director" means a Director who is not currently employed by the Company or any subsidiary of the Company.
Nonemployee Director
     2.13 . "Nonqualified Stock Option" or "NQSO" means an option to purchase Shares, granted under Article VII herein that does not constitute an Incentive Stock Option under Code Section 422 (or any successor Code Section).
Nonqualified Stock Option or NQSO
     2.14 . "Option" means a Nonqualified Stock Option granted under the Plan.
Option
     2.15 . "Participant" means a Nonemployee Director of the Company who has a viable outstanding Award granted under the Plan.
Participant
     2.16 . "Period of Restriction" means the period during which the transfer of Shares of Restricted Stock is limited in some way, and the Shares are subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture, as provided in Article VI herein.
Period of Restriction
     2.17 . "Restricted Stock" means an Award granted to a Nonemployee Director pursuant to Article VI herein.
Restricted Stock
     2.18 . "Restricted Stock Unit" means an Award granted to a Nonemployee Director pursuant to Article VI herein.
Restricted Stock Unit
     2.19 . "Shares" means the common shares, $0.01 par value per share, of NiSource Inc.
Shares
 
     3.1 . The Plan shall be administered by the Committee, subject to the restrictions set forth in the Plan.
Committee
     3.2 . The Committee shall have the full power, discretion and authority to interpret and administer the Plan in a manner that is consistent with the Plan's provisions. However, except as otherwise set forth in Section 10.1, in no event shall the Committee have the power to determine Plan eligibility, or to determine the number, the value, the vesting period, or the timing of Awards to be made under the Plan (all such determinations are automatic pursuant to the provisions of the Plan). Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the Committee shall have the authority to designate whether an upcoming grant of Awards shall consist of Restricted Stock, Nonqualified Stock Options or Restricted Stock Units.
Administration by the Committee
     3.3 . All determinations and decisions made by the Committee pursuant to the provisions of the Plan, and all related orders or resolutions of the Committee, shall be final, conclusive and binding on all persons, including the Company, its stockholders, employees, Participants, and their estates and beneficiaries.
Decisions Binding
     4.1 . Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4.3 herein, the total number of Shares available for grant as Awards under the Plan may not exceed an aggregate of 500,000.
Number of Shares and Restricted Stock Units
 
     4.2 . If any Share of Restricted Stock, Option, or Restricted Stock Unit granted under the Plan terminates, expires or lapses for any reason, any such Share of Restricted Stock, any Share subject to purchase pursuant to such Option and any such Restricted Stock Unit again shall be available for grant under the Plan. Awards shall be subject to such terms and conditions, in addition to the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan, as the Committee shall determine.
Lapsed Awards
     4.3 .
Adjustments in Authorized Shares and Restricted Stock Units
     (a) Appropriate adjustments in the aggregate number of Shares and Restricted Stock Units issuable pursuant to the Plan, the number of Shares and Restricted Stock Units subject to each outstanding Award granted under the Plan and the Option price with respect to Options, shall be made to give effect to any increase or decrease in the number of issued Shares resulting from a subdivision or consolidation of shares, whether through recapitalization, stock split, reverse stock split, spin-off, spinout or other distribution of assets to stockholders, stock distributions or combinations of shares, payment of stock dividends, other increase or decrease in the number of such Shares outstanding effected without receipt of consideration by the Company, or any other occurrence for which the Committee determines an adjustment is appropriate.
     (b) In the event of any merger, consolidation or reorganization of the Company with any other corporation or corporations, or an acquisition by the Company of the stock or assets of any other corporation or corporations, there shall be substituted on an equitable basis, as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion, for each Share then subject to the Plan, and for each Share then subject to an Award granted under the Plan, the number and kind of shares of stock, other securities, cash or other property to which the holders of Shares of the Company are entitled pursuant to such transaction.
     (c) Without limiting the generality of the foregoing provisions of this section, any such adjustment shall be deemed to have prevented any dilution or enlargement of a Participant's rights, if such Participant receives in any such adjustment rights that are substantially similar (after taking into account the fact that the Participant has not paid the applicable Option price) to the rights the Participant would have received had he or she exercised his or her outstanding Award and become a shareholder of the Company immediately prior to the event giving rise to such adjustment. Adjustments under this Section 4.3 shall be made by the Committee, whose decision as to the amount and timing of any such adjustment shall be conclusive and binding on all persons.
 
     5.1 . Persons eligible to participate in the Plan are limited to Nonemployee Directors who are serving on the Board on the date of each grant under the Plan.
Eligibility
     5.2 . All eligible Nonemployee Directors shall receive grants of Restricted Stock, Options and Restricted Stock Units pursuant to the terms and provisions set forth in Articles VI and VII herein.
Actual Participation
     6.1 . Each person who was a Nonemployee Director on February 1, 1992 was then granted 250 Shares of Restricted Stock for each year of service as a Nonemployee Director of the Company or its predecessor (the number of years of service was determined as of the date of the first annual meeting of shareholders of the Company following February 1, 1992).
Initial Grant
          Each person who was a Nonemployee Director on April 14, 1999 was then granted 500 Restricted Stock Units.
     6.2 . Each Nonemployee Director participating in the NiSource Inc. Nonemployee Director Retirement Plan (the "Retirement Plan") on December 31, 2001 made an irrevocable election, by written instrument delivered to the Committee between May 1, 2002 and June 30, 2002, to: (i) continue his or her participation in the Retirement Plan on and after July 1, 2002 or (ii) terminate his or her participation in the Retirement Plan as of June 30, 2002 and have the present value of his or her retirement benefit under Article V of the Retirement Plan, determined as of June 30, 2002, converted to Restricted Stock Units of comparable value and granted to him or her under the Plan on July 1, 2002. Any
Special Grant of Restricted Stock Units
 
Restricted Stock Units granted to a Nonemployee Director pursuant to this Section 6.2 who had fewer than five Years of Service on June 30, 2002 shall fully vest upon the completion of such Nonemployee Director's fifth Year of Service. "Year of Service" means the 12-month period commencing with the first day of the calendar month in which each annual meeting of the shareholders of the Company takes place, and throughout which a Nonemployee Director served on the Board as a Nonemployee Director.
     6.3 . Upon each election, reelection or appointment, as applicable, of a Nonemployee Director to serve on the Board, on and after July 1, 2002 and prior to January 1, 2004, such Nonemployee Director was granted 2,600 Shares of Restricted Stock and 600 Restricted Stock Units, subject to the terms of the Plan. Each such grant was made as of the first day of the Board term of the newly-elected, reelected or appointed, as applicable, Nonemployee Director, which began immediately following such election, reelection or appointment, as applicable.
Grants Prior to January 1, 2004
     6.4 .
Future Grants On and After January 1, 2004
     (a) Each Nonemployee Director shall receive a portion of his or her annual retainer equal to $20,000 in the form of an Award granted in four equal installments on the last business day of each calendar quarter, commencing on March 31, 2004. Such Award shall be a grant of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units, or a combination thereof, as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion. The number of Shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units, as applicable, constituting such quarterly grant shall be determined by dividing $5,000 by the Fair Market Value of Shares on the last business day of the relevant quarter.
     (b) Each Nonemployee Director elected, reelected or appointed on the date of an Annual Meeting of Shareholders shall receive an additional Award equal to $30,000 for each full Year in the term for which he or she is elected, reelected or appointed, granted upon the date of such election, reelection or appointment, as applicable, of such Nonemployee Director to serve on the Board, on and after May 11, 2004. Such additional Award shall be a grant of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units, or a combination thereof, as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion. The number of Shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units, as applicable, constituting such
 
grant shall be determined by dividing the total value of the grant under this subsection (b) by the Fair Market Value of Shares on the date of the Annual Meeting of Shareholders coincident with such election, reelection or appointment, or if the Annual Meeting of Shareholders is not held on a business day, the first business day preceding the date of such Meeting.
     (c) Each Nonemployee Director elected or appointed on a date other than the date of an Annual Meeting of Shareholders shall receive an additional Award equal to $30,000 for each full Year in the term for which he or she is elected or appointed, granted upon the date of such election or appointment, as applicable, of such Nonemployee Director to serve on the Board, on and after May 11, 2004; such Nonemployee Director shall receive an additional Award with respect to any fractional Year in the term for which he or she is elected or appointed equal to $2,500 for each full month of the term from the date of election or appointment to the date of the first Annual Meeting of Shareholders next following such election or appointment, granted upon the date of such election or appointment, as applicable, of such Nonemployee Director to serve on the Board, on and after May 11, 2004. Such additional Award shall be a grant of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units, or a combination thereof, as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion. The number of Shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units, as applicable, constituting such grant shall be determined by dividing the total value of the grant under this subsection (c) by the Fair Market Value of Shares on the date of the election or appointment of such Nonemployee Director, or if the election or appointment does not occur on a business day, the first business day preceding such election or appointment.
     (d) For purposes of subsections (b) and (c), Year shall mean each period commencing on the date of an Annual Meeting of Shareholders and ending on the date of the next Annual Meeting of Shareholders.
     6.5 .
Award Agreements
     (a) Each Restricted Stock grant under the Plan shall be evidenced by a Restricted Stock Award Agreement that shall specify the Period(s) of Restriction, the number of Restricted Stock Shares granted and such other provisions as the Committee shall determine consistent with the Plan.
     (b) Each Restricted Stock Unit grant under the Plan may, in the Committee's sole discretion, be evidenced by a Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement that shall specify the vesting period of Restricted Stock Units, the number of Restricted Stock Units granted and such other provisions as the Committee shall determine consistent with the Plan.
     6.6 . The Committee shall impose such other restrictions on any Shares of Restricted Stock granted pursuant to the Plan as it may deem advisable, including
Other Restrictions
 
restrictions imposed under Section 7.7 hereof. Any restriction imposed on Shares of Restricted Stock shall be included in a legend appearing on the certificates representing Shares of Restricted Stock.
     6.7 . In addition to any legends placed on certificates pursuant to Section 6.6 herein, each certificate representing Shares of Restricted Stock granted pursuant to the Plan shall bear the following legend:
Certificate Legend
"The sale or other transfer of the Shares of stock represented by this certificate, whether voluntary, involuntary or by operation of law, is subject to certain restrictions on transfer as set forth in the NiSource Inc. Nonemployee Director Stock Incentive Plan, and in a Restricted Stock Award Agreement. A copy of the Plan and such Restricted Stock Award Agreement may be obtained from the Secretary of NiSource Inc."
     6.8 . Restricted Stock Units granted to a Nonemployee Director under the Plan shall be credited to a Restricted Stock Unit Account (the "Account") established and maintained for such Nonemployee Director. The Account of a Nonemployee Director shall be the record of Restricted Stock Units granted to him or her under the Plan. The Account is solely for accounting purposes and shall not require a segregation of any assets of the Company. Each Restricted Stock Unit shall be valued by the Committee, in the manner provided in Section 6.12, as of the date of payment thereof. Each grant of Restricted Stock Units under the Plan to a Nonemployee Director and the value of such Restricted Stock Units as of the date of grant shall be communicated by the Committee in writing to the Nonemployee Director within 30 days after the date of grant.
Restricted Stock Unit Account
     6.9 . Except as otherwise provided in the Plan, all Restricted Stock Units granted under the Plan shall vest, and in the case of Restricted Stock shall become freely transferable, by the Participant according to the following schedule:
Vesting and Transferability
 
          Regardless of the schedule set forth above, all Shares of Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units held by a Participant or credited to a Participant's Account, as applicable, shall immediately become 100% freely transferable or vested, as applicable, upon the first to occur of the following:
     (a) The completion of the schedule set forth above (or in Section 6.2, if applicable);
     (b) The death of the Participant;
     (c) The Disability of the Participant;
     (d) The retirement of the Participant from service on the Board prior to death or Disability and after attaining the age of 70 years; or
     (e) The effective date of a Change in Control of the Company.
          However, in no event may any Shares of Restricted Stock granted under the Plan become freely transferable by a Participant prior to six months following the date of its grant. Upon becoming freely transferable, each Participant shall be entitled to have the legend required by Section 6.6 and/or Section 6.7 removed from his or her Share certificates.
     6.10 .
Voting and Stock Ownership Rights
     (a) During the Period of Restriction, except as set forth in the applicable Restricted Stock Award Agreement, a Participant holding Shares of Restricted Stock
 
granted hereunder may exercise full voting and other stock ownership rights with respect to such Shares.
     (b) Except as set forth in Section 6.11(b), no Participant shall be entitled to any voting or other stock ownership rights with respect to Shares attributable to Restricted Stock Units granted under the Plan.
     6.11 .
Dividends and Other Distributions
     (a) During the Period of Restriction, Participants holding Shares of Restricted Stock granted hereunder shall be entitled to receive all dividends and other distributions paid with respect to such Shares while they are so held. Any such dividends or distributions shall be fully vested and shall be paid to Participants on the date such dividends are actually paid to shareholders of the Company.
     (b) Additional Restricted Stock Units shall be credited to each Participant's Account with respect to Restricted Stock Units included in such Account from time to time, to reflect dividends paid to stockholders of the Company with respect to Shares. The additional Restricted Stock Units credited before January 1, 2004 shall be granted at such time or times and shall be subject to such terms and conditions, in addition to the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan, as the Committee shall determine. The additional Restricted Stock Units credited on or after January 1, 2004 shall be fully vested and granted on the date such dividends are actually paid to shareholders of the Company.
     6.12 .
Payment of Restricted Stock Units
     (a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) or (c) below, upon a Participant's separation from service on the Board for any reason other than for Cause (as defined in Section 10.6), the Participant shall be entitled to receive from the Company, with respect to each then vested Restricted Stock Unit in the Participant's Account, a number of Shares with an aggregate Fair Market Value on the date of payment equal to the aggregate Fair Market Value of such vested Restricted Stock Units. Payment to a Participant for Restricted Stock Units shall be made in Shares in a single payment within 60 days after the date of the Participant's separation from service on the Board.
     (b) Restricted Stock Units in the Participant's Account granted pursuant to Section 6.2, and additional Restricted Stock Units with respect thereto credited pursuant to Section 6.11(b), shall be paid to the Participant in a single payment within six months after the date of the Participant's separation from service on the Board. Payment to a Participant for such Restricted Stock Units shall be made in the form of a number of Shares with an aggregate Fair Market Value on the date of payment equal to the aggregate Fair Market Value of such vested Restricted Stock Units in the Participant's Account on the date of payment.
 
     (c) With respect to Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to Section 6.4, and additional Restricted Stock Units with respect thereto credited pursuant to Section 6.11(b), on or after January 1, 2004, upon a Participant's separation from service on the Board for any reason other than for Cause (as defined in Section 10.6), the Participant shall be entitled to receive from the Company, with respect to such then vested Restricted Stock Units in the Participant's Account, a number of Shares with an aggregate Fair Market Value on the date of payment equal to the aggregate Fair Market Value of such vested Restricted Stock Units. Payment to a Participant for Restricted Stock Units shall be made in Shares in a single payment six months after the date of the Participant's separation from service on the Board, or as soon as administratively practicable thereafter.
     (d) A Participant shall be credited with additional Restricted Stock Units pursuant to Section 6.11(b) on the value of his or her Restricted Stock Units with respect to the period between his or her separation from service on the Board and the receipt of payment under the Plan.
     7.1 . In the event that the Committee properly designates (pursuant to Section 3.2 herein) that a scheduled Award under Section 6.4 shall consist of Options rather than Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units, then each eligible Nonemployee Director shall be granted an Option to purchase a number of Shares so that the Option shall have a value, as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion, equal to the value of the Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units that would otherwise have been awarded, subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan.
Potential Grants of Options
     7.2 . Each Option grant shall be evidenced by an Option Award Agreement that shall specify the Option Price, the duration of the Option, the number of Shares available for purchase under the Option, and such other provisions as the Committee shall determine.
Option Award Agreement
     7.3 . The purchase price per Share available for purchase under an Option shall equal the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date the Option is granted.
Option Price
 
     7.4 . Each Option shall expire on the tenth anniversary of its grant date.
Duration of Options
     7.5 . Subject to Section 10.6, Participants shall be entitled to exercise Options at any time and from time to time, but no sooner than the time period beginning six months after the grant of the Option and ending ten years after the grant of the Option, and according to the following vesting schedule:
Vesting of Shares Subject to Option
Regardless of the vesting schedule set forth above, all Options held by a Participant shall immediately become 100% vested upon the first to occur of the following:
     (a) the completion of the vesting schedule set forth above;
     (b) the death of the Participant;
     (c) the Disability of the Participant;
     (d) the retirement of the Participant from service on the Board prior to death or Disability and after attaining the age of 70 years; or
     (e) the effective date of a Change in Control of the Company.
     7.6 . Options shall be exercised by the delivery of a written notice of exercise to the Secretary of the Company, setting forth the number of Shares with respect to which the Option is to be exercised, accompanied by full payment for the Shares.
Payment
 
          The Option Price upon exercise of any Option shall be payable to the Company in full either: (i) in cash or its equivalent, or (ii) by tendering previously acquired Shares having a Fair Market Value at the time of exercise equal to the total Option Price of the Shares for which the Option is being exercised (provided that the Shares tendered upon Option exercise have been held by the Participant for at least six months prior to their tender to satisfy the Option Price), or (iii) by a combination of (i) and (ii). The proceeds from such a payment shall be added to the general funds of the Company and shall be used for general corporate purposes.
          As soon as practicable after receipt of a written notification of exercise and full payment, the Company shall deliver to the Participant, in the Participant's name, Share certificates in an appropriate amount based upon the number of Shares purchased pursuant to the exercise of the Option.
     7.7 . The Committee shall impose such restrictions on any Shares acquired pursuant to the exercise of an Option under the Plan as it may deem advisable, including, without limitation, restrictions under applicable federal securities laws, under the requirements of any stock exchange or market upon which such Shares are then listed and/or traded, and under any blue sky or state securities laws applicable to such Shares.
Restrictions on Share Transferability
     In the event of a Change in Control of the Company, all Awards granted under the Plan that are still outstanding and not yet vested or freely transferable, shall become immediately 100% vested and freely transferable for each Participant, as of the effective date of the Change in Control, and shall remain as such for the remaining life of the Award, as such life is provided herein, and within the provisions of the related Award Agreements. All Options that are
 
outstanding as of the effective date of the Change in Control shall remain exercisable for the remaining lives of the Options.
     9.1 . Subject to the terms set forth in this Section 9.1, the Committee may terminate, amend or modify the Plan at any time and from time to time; provided, however, that the provisions set forth in the Plan regarding the amount of securities to be awarded to Nonemployee Directors, the price of securities to be awarded to Nonemployee Directors, and the timing of Awards to Nonemployee Directors, may not be amended more than once within any six month period.
Amendment, Modification and Termination
          Amendment or termination of the Plan may occur without the approval of the shareholders of the Company (except as may be required by law or by any national securities exchange or system on which the Shares are then listed or reported, or by a regulatory body having jurisdiction with respect hereto).
     9.2 . Unless required by law, no termination, amendment or modification of the Plan shall in any manner adversely affect any Award previously granted under the Plan without the written consent of the Participant holding the Award.
Awards Previously Granted
     10.1 . In addition to any Award received pursuant to Section 6.3, 6.4 or 7.1, each Nonemployee Director who first serves on the Board on or after January 1, 2002, and each Nonemployee Director who served on the Board on December 31, 2001 and who
Additional Awards
 
elected to discontinue participation in the NiSource Inc. Nonemployee Director Retirement Plan on and after July 1, 2002, shall receive a grant of Shares of Restricted Stock upon each election, reelection or appointment, as applicable, to the Board on or after July 1, 2002. At the discretion of the Committee, such grant may be in any combination of Shares of Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units, as determined by the Committee. Such Award shall have an aggregate value, as determined by the Committee, based on information provided by the management of the Company, that ensures that the Award, together with other compensation paid to the Nonemployee Director for service on the Board, delivers a compensation package to the Nonemployee Director competitive with the nonemployee director compensation packages offered by companies in the same or similar industries as that of the Company
.
     10.2 . Except where otherwise indicated by the context, any masculine term used herein also shall include the feminine, the plural shall include the singular and the singular shall include the plural.
Gender and Number
     10.3 . In the event any provision of the Plan shall be held illegal or invalid for any reason, the illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts of the Plan, and the Plan shall be construed and enforced as if the illegal or invalid provision had not been included.
Severability
     10.4 . Each individual who is or was a member of the Committee shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Company against and from any loss, cost, liability, or expense that may be imposed upon or reasonably incurred by him or her in connection with or resulting from any claim, action, suit or proceeding to which he or she may be a party or in which he or she may be involved by reason of any action taken or failure to act under the Plan and against and from any and all amounts paid by him or her in settlement thereof, with the
Indemnification
 
Company's approval, or paid by him or her in satisfaction of any judgment in any such action, suit, or proceeding against him or her, provided he or she shall give the Company an opportunity, at its own expense, to handle and defend the same before he or she undertakes to handle and defend it on his or her own behalf.
          The foregoing right of indemnification shall not be exclusive of any other rights of indemnification to which such individuals may be entitled under the Company's Articles of Incorporation or By-laws, as a matter of law, or otherwise, or any power that the Company may have to indemnify them or hold them harmless.
     10.5 . Each Participant under the Plan may, from time to time, name any beneficiary or beneficiaries (who may be named contingently or successively) to whom any benefit under the Plan is to be paid in the event of his or her death (and/or who may exercise the Participant's vested Options following his or her death). Each designation shall revoke all prior designations by the same Participant, shall be in a form prescribed by the Committee, and shall be effective only when filed by the Participant in writing with the Committee during his or her lifetime. In the absence of any such designation, benefits remaining unpaid at the Participant's death shall be paid to the Participant's estate (and, subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan, any unexercised vested Options may be exercised by the administrator or executor of the Participant's estate).
Beneficiary Designation
     10.6 . In the event a Participant ceases to be a Director for any reason other than death, Disability, retirement from service on the Board after attaining the age of 70 years, or a Change in Control of the Company, all Shares of Restricted Stock, all Options and all Restricted Stock Units that have not vested or become freely transferable on or prior to the date of the occurrence of such event shall terminate and be forfeited and neither the
Termination of Directorship
 
Participant nor his or her heirs, personal representatives, successors or assigns shall have any future rights with respect to any such Shares of Restricted Stock, Options and Restricted Stock Units. All Options that are vested as of such date shall remain exercisable for six months following the date the Director's service on the Board terminates, or until their expiration date, whichever period is shorter.
     Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, in the event a Participant is discharged from service on the Board for Cause, all rights to any Shares of Restricted Stock that have not become freely transferable, any vested or unvested Options granted on and after July 1, 2002, and any vested or unvested Restricted Stock Units shall be discontinued and forfeited, and the Company shall have no further obligation hereunder to such Participant or any other person. For purposes of the Plan, "Cause" shall mean:
     (a) the Participant's conviction of any criminal violation involving dishonesty, fraud or breach of trust;
     (b) the Participant's willful engagement in any misconduct in the performance of his or her duty that materially injures the Company;
     (c) the Participant's performance of any act which, if known to the customers or stockholders of the Company, would materially and adversely impact the business of the Company; or
     (d) the Participant's willful and substantial nonperformance of assigned duties.
     The Committee shall have sole discretion with respect to the application of the provisions of subsections (a)-(d) next above, and such exercise of discretion shall be conclusive and binding upon the Participant and all other persons.
     10.7 . No Share of Restricted Stock (until the end of the applicable Period of Restriction specified in the Restricted Stock Award Agreement), Option or Restricted Stock Unit granted under the Plan may be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or
Nontransferability of Options
 
otherwise alienated or hypothecated, other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. In the event of a Participant's death, payment of any amount due under the Plan shall be made to the duly appointed and qualified executor or other personal representative of the Participant's estate to be distributed in accordance with the Participant's will or applicable intestacy law; or in the event that there shall be no such representative duly appointed and qualified within six months after the date of death of such deceased Participant, then to such persons as, at the date of his or her death, would be entitled to share in the distribution of such deceased Participant's personal estate under the provisions of the applicable statute then in force governing the descent of intestate property, in the proportions specified in such statute. All Options granted to a Participant under the Plan shall be exercisable, during his or her lifetime, only by such Participant.
          Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Section, a Participant, at any time prior to his or her death, may assign all or any portion of an Award granted to him or her under the Plan to (i) his or her spouse or lineal descendant, (ii) the trustee of a trust for the primary benefit of his or her spouse or lineal descendant or (iii) a tax-exempt organization as described in Code Section 501(c)(3). In such event, the spouse, lineal descendant, trustee, or tax-exempt organization shall be entitled to all of the rights of the Participant with respect to the assigned portion of such Award, and such portion of the Award shall continue to be subject to all of the terms, conditions and restrictions applicable to the Award as set forth herein, and in the related Award Agreement, immediately prior to the effective date of the assignment. Any such assignment shall be permitted only if (A) the Participant does not receive any consideration therefor, and (B) the assignment is expressly approved by the Committee or its delegate. Any such assignment shall be evidenced by an appropriate written document executed by the
 
Participant, and a copy thereof shall be delivered to the Committee or its delegate on or prior to the effective date of the assignment.
     10.8 . Nothing in the Plan shall be deemed to create any obligation on the part of the Board to nominate any Director for reelection by the Company's shareholders.
No Right of Nomination
     10.9 . The Shares made available pursuant to Awards under the Plan may be either authorized but unissued Shares or Shares that have been or may be reacquired by the Company, as determined from time to time by the Committee.
Shares Available
     10.10 . Awards granted under the Plan shall be in addition to any additional annual retainer, attendance fees or other compensation payable to each Participant as a result of his or her service on the Board.
Additional Compensation
     10.11 . All obligations of the Company under the Plan, with respect to Awards granted hereunder, shall be binding on any successor to the Company, whether the existence of such successor is the result of a direct or indirect purchase, merger, consolidation, or otherwise, of all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company.
Successors
     10.12 . The granting of Awards under the Plan shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules and regulations, and to such approvals by any governmental agencies or national securities exchanges as may be required.
Requirements of Law
     10.13 . To the extent not preempted by federal law, the Plan, and all agreements hereunder, shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Indiana.
Governing Law
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused the amended and restated Plan to be signed on this 2nd day of December, 2005, effective as of January 1, 2005.


