FILE:NI/NI-8K-20060131080037.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
ITEM 1.01. ENTRY INTO A MATERIAL DEFINITIVE AGREEMENT
     On January 27, 2006, the Officer Nomination and Compensation Committee of the board of directors of NiSource Inc. (the "Company") approved an amended and restated NiSource Inc. Executive Severance Policy (the "Policy") that (i) removed provisions of the Policy relating to job titles and eligibility identifiers that are no longer applicable, (ii) clarified certain technical provisions related to the procedure for asserting constructive termination, (iii) clarified that any employee who receives a payout under his or her Change in Control and Termination Agreement will be ineligible to receive severance benefits under the Policy, (iv) clarified that employees are not eligible to receive severance benefits under the Policy at the end of a period of long-term disability, and (v) extended the term of the Policy to December 31, 2006.
     A copy of the Amended and Restated Executive Severance Policy is attached to this Current Report as Exhibit 10.1 and is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 1.01.
ITEM 2.02. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
     On January 31, 2006, the Company reported its financial results for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005. The Company's press release, dated January 31, 2006, is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
ITEM 7.01. REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
     In addition to disclosing the Company's financial results for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, the Company's press release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 contains certain forward looking information which the Company intends to discuss at its analyst call to be held on January 31, 2006. This information will also be published on the Company's website (www.nisource.com) on January 31, 2006.
     The Company does not have, and expressly disclaims, any obligation to release publicly any updates or any changes in the Company's expectations or any changes in events, conditions or circumstances on which any forward-looking statement is based.
ITEM 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(c) Exhibits
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX

 
EXHIBIT 10.1
NiSource
 
A Participant who is receiving benefits under a short term disability plan maintained by any Affiliate will be entitled to Severance Pay at the end of the period of payment of short term disability if, and only if, (1) he or she is not then eligible for benefits under a long term disability plan maintained by an Affiliate, and (2) he or she is not offered employment with an Affiliate that, in the discretion of the Committee, is comparable to
 
that held by the Participant at the time the applicable period of short term disability commenced. A Participant will not be entitled to Severance Pay at the end of the period of long term disability.
Severance Pay will be paid to a Participant in one lump sum cash payment. Payment will be made as soon as practicable after the last to occur of (1) the date of the Participant's termination of employment, (2) the effective date of the Participant's release of (i) the Affiliates, and their respective officers, directors and employees, from any and all actions, suits, proceedings, claims and demands relating to the Participant's employment with the Affiliates and the termination thereof, and (ii) all rights and benefits required under the NiSource Severance Policy or any other severance policy or plan maintained by any Affiliate, and (3) the satisfaction of the conditions described in clauses (c), (d) and (e) of Section 5. Severance Pay shall be reduced by applicable amounts necessary to comply with federal, state and local income tax withholding requirements.
 
 
information necessary for the claimant to perfect the claim and explain why such material information is necessary; and will have an explanation of the Policy's review procedure.
The claimant will have 60 days after the date of the denial to ask for a review and a hearing. The claimant must file a written request with the Committee for a review. During this time the claimant may review pertinent documents and may submit issues and comments in writing. The Committee will have another 60 days in which to consider the claimant's request for review. If special circumstances require an extension of time for processing, the Committee may have an additional 60 days to answer the claimant. The claimant will receive a written notice if the extra days are needed. The claimant may submit in writing any document, issues and comments he or she may wish. The decision of the Committee will tell the claimant the specific reasons for its actions, and refer the claimant to the specific Policy provisions upon which its decision is based.
In addition to creating rights for Policy Participants, ERISA imposes duties upon the people who are responsible for the operation of an employee benefit plan. The people who operate the Policy, called "fiduciaries" of the Policy, have a duty to do so prudently and in the interest of the Policy Participants and beneficiaries. No one, including the Company, any affiliate or any other person, may fire a Participant or otherwise discriminate against a Participant in any way to prevent him or her from obtaining a benefit or exercising his or her rights under ERISA. If a Participant's claim for a benefit is denied in whole or in part, he or she must receive a written explanation of the reason for the denial. A Participant has the right to have the Committee review and reconsider his or her claim. Under ERISA, there are steps a Participant can take to enforce the above rights. For instance, if a Participant requests materials from the Committee and does not receive them within thirty (30) days, he or she may file suit in a federal court. In such a case the court may require the Committee to provide the materials and pay the Participant up to $110 a day until the Participant receives the materials, unless the materials were not sent because of reasons beyond the control of the Committee. If a Participant has a claim for benefits, which is denied or ignored, in whole or in part, he or she may file suit in a state or federal court. If it should happen that the Policy fiduciaries misuse the Policy's money, or if a Participant is discriminated against for asserting his or her rights, he or she may ask assistance from the United States Department of Labor, or he or she may file suit in a federal court. The court will decide who should pay the court costs and legal fees. If the Participant is successful, the court may order the person he or she has sued to pay these costs and fees. If the Participant loses, the court may order him or her to pay these costs and fees, for example, if it finds his or her claim to be frivolous.
 
If a Participant has questions about the Policy, he or she should contact the Committee. If a Participant has any questions about this statement or about his or her rights under ERISA, he or she should contact the nearest Area Office of the United States Labor-Management Services Administration, Department of Labor.

 
Exhibit 99.1
January 31, 2006
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
NiSource Inc. (NYSE: NI) today announced net operating earnings (non-GAAP) of $375.4 million, or $1.38 per share, for the 12 months ended Dec. 31, 2005, compared with $405.8 million, or $1.54 per share, for 2004 (all per-share amounts are basic).
MERRILLVILLE, Ind. 
The 2005 results exceeded the revised net operating earnings guidance of $1.32 to $1.37 per share, issued in November 2005. Net operating earnings are a non-GAAP financial measure that NiSource defines as income from continuing operations determined in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) adjusted for certain items.
The decrease in net operating earnings of $30.4 million for 2005 compared with 2004 was the result of higher depreciation expense, primarily from the 2004 expiration of the prior regulatory stipulation for Columbia Gas of Ohio (COH); decreased usage by natural gas utility customers, primarily due to higher gas prices; incremental costs associated with the Midwest Independent System Operator (MISO) in NiSource's Indiana electric market; and lower net revenues in the gas transmission and storage business due primarily to the 2004 renegotiation of contracts with NiSource pipelines' major customers, net of remarketing activities. These impacts were partially offset by strong cost management and improved results from Whiting Clean Energy.
 
NiSource reports 2005 financial results and provides 2006 earnings guidance Page 2
NiSource President and Chief Executive Officer Robert C. Skaggs, Jr., noted that 2005 was expected to be a base year from which the company would grow off a focused, four-point business platform.
"Despite the challenges of record high natural gas prices, the impact of hurricanes and a dynamic energy market environment, the NiSource employee team put in place the four key elements of our platform for growth: expansion and commercial growth in the pipeline and storage business; regulatory and commercial initiatives; management of the balance sheet; and expense management," Skaggs said.
"We made significant progress on pipeline and storage growth projects, with the Hardy Storage project in West Virginia receiving its Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) certificate to move forward, Millennium Pipeline signing Consolidated Edison and KeySpan as anchor customers, and Columbia Gas Transmission's Eastern Market Expansion moving forward towards a 2009 in service date based on definitive agreements with four East Coast customers," he noted. "In addition, our Bay State Gas Company subsidiary received approval of a rate increase in Massachusetts, resulting in $11.1 million in annual revenue increases."
"We completed major refinancings that will yield approximately $43 million in annual interest expense savings beginning in 2006, as well as a new, five-year $1.25 billion revolving credit agreement that reduced short-term borrowing rates by 27.5 basis points," Skaggs added.
"In addition, we began implementing sweeping process and cost management initiatives through transformation of NiSource's back-office processes and systems in conjunction with the outsourcing contract with IBM, and we initiated a corporate streamlining effort that will include reducing office locations, realigning executive compensation and reducing executive positions."
Based on this progress in 2005 and the successful launch of NiSource's four-point business platform, Skaggs announced that NiSource expects 2006 net operating earnings in the range of $1.45 to $1.55 per share. Key assumptions underlying the earnings guidance will be discussed later in this release.
Net operating earnings (non-GAAP)
For the second consecutive quarter, NiSource is providing net operating earnings and operating earnings, which are both non-GAAP measures, because management believes these measures better represent the fundamental earnings strength of the company. Operating earnings are operating income determined in accordance with GAAP adjusted for certain items. NiSource uses net operating earnings and operating earnings internally for budgeting and reporting to the board of directors. Adjustments reflected in these measures are primarily weather, restructuring charges associated with the outsourcing contract with IBM, costs associated with the refinancing of debt, and impairment charges. See Schedule 1 and Schedule 2 of this news release for the reconciliations of net operating earnings and operating earnings, respectively, to GAAP.
Fourth-quarter net operating earnings (non-GAAP)
For the three months ended Dec. 31, 2005, NiSource reported net operating earnings (non-GAAP) of $123.2 million, or 45 cents per share, compared with $137.7 million, or 52 cents per share, for the comparable 2004 period.
 
NiSource reports 2005 financial results and provides 2006 earnings guidance Page 3
The decrease in the three-month net operating earnings of $14.5 million versus 2004 was the result of lower customer usage of natural gas, incremental MISO costs, higher depreciation resulting primarily from the 2004 expiration of the prior COH regulatory stipulation, and lower net revenues in the gas transmission and storage business due primarily to the 2004 renegotiation of contracts with major pipeline customers, net of remarketing activities. The decrease was partially offset by improved results from Whiting Clean Energy.
Overview of 2005 Performance by Business Segment (non-GAAP)
Gas Distribution Operations
Operating earnings for NiSource's gas distribution operations were down by $34.6 million from 2004, to $394.2 million for 2005. The decline was primarily due to higher depreciation of $30 million resulting from the 2004 expiration of the prior regulatory stipulation for Columbia Gas of Ohio and decreased customer usage, net of an increase in the number of customers.
Skaggs noted that in several fundamental respects, the segment registered solid performance.
"The gas distribution business continues to benefit from the regulatory initiatives we have undertaken over the last several years, such as trackers," Skaggs said. Regulatory trackers, which allow for the recovery of certain costs, such as bad debt, increase net revenues in tandem with rising expenses.
"In addition to the positive effect of trackers, our distribution team did an outstanding job of limiting the impact of the higher depreciation and declining customer usage by holding the line on operation and maintenance costs," Skaggs said. "In addition, our gas utilities added nearly 28,000 net new customers during 2005."
"The biggest ongoing concern  as it is for most gas utilities  is gas usage reduction. Although the weather was colder than normal for the year and particularly during the fourth quarter, high gas prices caused customers to dial back their thermostats," he said. "Excluding the impact of weather, residential volume declines decreased operating earnings by approximately $20 million for the year. This is a steeper decline than we have seen in the past."
Gas Transmission and Storage Operations
The gas transmission and storage business reported operating earnings of $349.6 million, a $16.9 million decrease from 2004. The decline was primarily due to a $31.9 million decrease in net revenues caused by the 2004 renegotiation of contracts with major pipeline customers, net of remarketing activities.
"We expected a material decrease in revenues due to the recontracting, but notably, the pipeline team offset nearly half of the reduction in revenue by aggressively marketing available capacity and lowering operation and maintenance expenses by $15.6 million," Skaggs said. "Our pipeline and storage business shows great potential for growth and expansion, with expanded commercial activities and new revenue-producing projects scheduled to come on-line as early as 2007."
 
NiSource reports 2005 financial results and provides 2006 earnings guidance Page 4
Electric Operations
NiSource's electric business reported operating earnings of $292.1 million, a decrease of $8.3 million from 2004. The decrease was primarily due to MISO costs of $19.2 million and higher electric production expenses of $7.2 million, partially offset by increased net revenues. Excluding the impact of MISO costs and trackers that increase both net revenues and expenses, net revenues increased by approximately $18 million.
"Some costs associated with MISO have been unrecoverable under the current Northern Indiana Public Service Company (NIPSCO) electric rate review settlement agreement as approved by the Indiana regulators. However, when that rate moratorium ends on July 31, 2006, we have the right to begin deferring for future recovery those costs beginning Aug. 1," Skaggs said.
"NIPSCO continues to provide solid top-line growth," Skaggs added. "Net revenues for the electric segment increased primarily due to environmental trackers that help recover the costs of certain pollution control equipment, increased customer usage and the addition of 4,400 customers partially offset by MISO costs."
"Unlike our gas distribution business, customer usage increased by approximately 4 percent for residential customers and 4 percent for commercial customers," Skaggs said. "We saw some weakness in the industrial market, and our wholesale sales amounts also were down. However, margins for both of these markets remained relatively solid, so the impact on revenues was tempered."
Other Operations
The other operations segment improved to an operating earnings loss of $13.2 million in 2005, from an operating earnings loss of $39.4 million a year earlier, due primarily to improved results from Whiting Clean Energy and increased net revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing activities. During 2005, Whiting Clean Energy sold power into the Midwest wholesale energy market.
Income from Continuing Operations (GAAP)
NiSource reported income from continuing operations for the 12 months ended Dec. 31, 2005, of $283.6 million, or $1.05 per share, compared with income from continuing operations of $431.0 million, or $1.63 per share, for 2004.
Net income for 2005 was $306.5 million, or $1.13 per share, compared with net income of $436.3 million, or $1.65 per share, for 2004. Operating income was $952.8 million in 2005, compared with $1,077.5 million in 2004.
For the three months ended Dec. 31, 2005, NiSource reported income from continuing operations of $72.8 million, or 27 cents per share, compared with $157.0 million, or 59 cents per share, for the same period of 2004. Net income for the fourth quarter of 2005 was $68.0 million, or 25 cents per share, compared with $159.4 million, or 60 cents per share, for the same period a year ago. Fourth-quarter 2005 results include a pre-tax loss on early extinguishment of long-term debt of $108.6 million.
Earnings per share were diluted by 5 cents for the full year 2005 primarily due to the issuance during the fourth quarter of 2004 of 6.8 million shares of common stock upon the settlement of the forward stock purchase contracts comprising a component of NiSource's Stock Appreciation Income Linked Securities (SAILS).
sm
 
NiSource reports 2005 financial results and provides 2006 earnings guidance Page 5
Outlook for 2006 (non-GAAP)
NiSource's 2006 guidance of net operating earnings in the range of $1.45 to $1.55 per share is based on typical assumptions such as normal weather, customer growth offsetting usage declines, and customary increases in costs such as depreciation, taxes and employee and administrative expenses. Other factors built into NiSource's business plan include: the successful completion of key regulatory and commercial initiatives; achieving expected savings from the outsourcing to IBM; deferral of MISO costs beginning Aug. 1; and modest deterioration of results from Whiting Clean Energy which benefited from a strong market during the 2005 period.
The chart accompanying this press release provides additional detail on the assumptions related to 2006 guidance.
NiSource's 2006 guidance for income from continuing operations (GAAP) is in the range of $1.42 to $1.52 basic earnings per share. Transition costs associated with the outsourcing initiative with IBM represent the 3 cents per share difference between net operating earnings and income from continuing operations.
"We have a solid plan to manage through the challenges we expect in 2006 and remain focused on our platform for growth. We have some aggressive objectives on the revenue side, and we also have a strong track record of managing our expenses," Skaggs said. "We look forward to keeping investors and all interested stakeholders updated on our progress."
NiSource will host an analyst conference call at 10 a.m. EST on Tuesday, Jan. 31, 2006 to further discuss the company's year-end 2005 results and 2006 business plan. All interested parties may hear the conference call live by logging on to the NiSource Web site at
www.nisource.com.
 
NiSource reports 2005 financial results and provides 2006 earnings guidance Page 6
Twelve-Month Period 2005 Operating Earnings  Segment Results (non-GAAP)
Full year 2005 operating earnings (non-GAAP) were $1,003.5 million compared to $1,033.8 million for 2004. Refer to Schedule 2 for the items included in 2005 and 2004 GAAP operating income but excluded from operating earnings.
Operating earnings for NiSource's business segments for the year ended Dec. 31, 2005, are discussed below.
operating earnings were $394.2 million, a decrease of $34.6 million versus 2004. The decrease in operating earnings was primarily due to higher depreciation of $30.0 million that mainly resulted from the 2004 expiration of the prior COH regulatory stipulation and decreased customer usage, net of an increase in the number of customers. Volume declines of approximately 47 MMDth, excluding the impact of weather, and due in part from higher gas prices, decreased operating earnings by approximately $28 million. Offsetting the volume declines were the addition of almost 28,000 new customers during 2005, which added approximately $9 million of incremental net revenues, and increased net revenues from regulatory initiatives including the stipulation for COH of approximately $12 million.
Gas Distribution Operations'
Comparability of Gas Distribution Operations line item operating results was impacted by regulatory trackers that allow for the recovery in rates of certain costs such as bad debt expenses. These trackers increase both operating expenses and net revenues and have essentially no impact on total operating earnings results. Approximately $34.6 million of the increase in operation and maintenance expenses and other taxes was offset by the effect of the regulatory trackers with a corresponding increase to net revenues reflecting recovery of certain costs.
reported operating earnings of $349.6 million, a $16.9 million decrease from last year. Net revenues decreased by $31.9 due primarily from pipeline re-contracting and the impact from regulatory trackers. Regulatory trackers allow for the recovery of certain operating expenses. Remarketing activities offset approximately 40 percent of the impact of the lost net revenues from the pipeline re-contracting. Operation and maintenance expenses were $15.6 million lower than the previous year. Lower pension costs and the impact of trackers contributed to this reduction.
Gas Transmission and Storage Operations
reported operating earnings of $292.1 million, a decrease of $8.3 million from the last year. The decrease was due to MISO costs of $19.2 million and higher electric production expenses of $7.2 million. MISO costs include both unrecoverable costs that reduce net revenues and unrecoverable administrative fees that increase operating expenses. These costs are unrecoverable as a condition of NIPSCO's electric rate review settlement agreement, but, in accordance with the end of the rate moratorium, may be deferred for future recovery beginning Aug. 1, 2006. The higher electric generation expenses were primarily the result of increased volumes, unplanned outages and other maintenance activities. These variances were partially offset by favorable net revenue impacts from environmental trackers of $8.9 million and increased sales to residential and commercial customers due to both usage and customer growth. Approximately 4,400 residential and commercial customers were added during 2005, and customer usage increased approximately 4 percent excluding the impact of weather.
Electric Operations
 
NiSource reports 2005 financial results and provides 2006 guidance Page 7
reported an operating earnings loss of $13.2 million during 2005, versus an operating earnings loss of $39.4 million last year. The lower operating earnings loss was mainly due to decreased losses of approximately $15.9 million associated with Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased net revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing activities.
Other Operations
reported an operating earnings loss of $19.2 million compared to an operating earnings loss of $22.5 million during 2004. The decreased operating earnings loss this year resulted from lower employee and administrative expenses.
Corporate
Interest expense was $421.0 million for 2005 compared to $403.9 million for last year. This increase was due to the impact of higher short-term interest rates on variable rate debt and higher average long-term debt balances due to the prefunding of November 2005 debt maturities. Other, net increased $6.7 million primarily as the result of higher interest income.
Other Items
Basic average shares of common stock outstanding at Dec. 31, 2005 were 271.3 million compared to 263.7 million at Dec. 31, 2004. The increase was primarily due to the issuance during the fourth quarter of 2004 of 6.8 million shares of common stock upon the settlement of the forward stock purchase contracts comprising a component of NiSource's Stock Appreciation Income Linked Securities (SAILS). The increase in average shares outstanding caused a 4 cents dilution of net operating earnings-per-share during 2005.
sm
Fourth Quarter 2005 Operating Earnings  Segment Results (non-GAAP)
NiSource's consolidated fourth quarter 2005 operating earnings (non-GAAP) were $294.2 million compared to $314.5 million for the same period in 2004. Refer to Schedule 2 for the items included in 2005 and 2004 GAAP operating income but excluded from operating earnings.
Operating earnings for NiSource's business segments for the quarter ended Dec. 31, 2005 are discussed below.
reported operating earnings of $146.6 million versus operating earnings of $162.9 million in the fourth quarter of 2004. The decrease in operating earnings was due to continued declines in customer usage and higher depreciation of $6.7 million that mainly resulted from the 2004 expiration of the prior COH regulatory stipulation. The declines in customer usage (approximately 12 MMDth excluding the impact of weather) were partly due to higher gas prices.
Gas Distribution Operations
reported operating earnings of $97.3 million versus operating earnings of $106.1 million in the fourth quarter of 2004. The decrease mainly resulted from lower net revenues of $7.1 million due primarily to pipeline re-contracting, net of remarketing activities.
Gas Transmission and Storage Operations
 
NiSource reports 2005 earnings and provides 2006 earnings guidance Page 8
reported operating earnings of $57.5 million, a decrease of $6.5 million from the comparable period last year. The decrease in operating earnings was primarily the result of unrecoverable MISO costs and operating expenses of $6.7 million, and unrecoverable costs associated with power purchases from the Whiting Clean Energy facility. These variances were partially offset by increased usage by residential and commercial customers and additional revenue from environmental trackers.
Electric Operations
reported operating earnings of $0.7 million in 2005, versus an operating earnings loss of $9.1 million in the fourth quarter of 2004. The $9.8 million increase in operating earnings primarily resulted from decreased losses of $5.5 million associated with Whiting Clean Energy and $4.3 million of increased net revenues from commercial and industrial marketing customers.
Other Operations
reported an operating earnings loss of $7.9 million versus an operating earnings loss of $9.4 million in the comparable 2004 period. The decreased loss was primarily the result of lower operating expenses.
Corporate
Interest expense increased by $5.1 million due to the impact of higher short-term interest rates on variable rate debt and higher average long-term debt balances due to the prefunding of November 2005 debt maturities. Other, net increased $4.2 million primarily as the result of higher interest income.
Other Items
NiSource Inc. (NYSE: NI), based in Merrillville, Ind., is a Fortune 500 company engaged in natural gas transmission, storage and distribution, as well as electric generation, transmission and distribution. NiSource operating companies deliver energy to 3.8 million customers located within the high-demand energy corridor stretching from the Gulf Coast through the Midwest to New England. Information about NiSource and its subsidiaries is available via the Internet at
About NiSource
www.nisource.com.
This news release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Those statements include statements regarding the intent, belief or current expectations of NiSource and its management. Although NiSource believes that its expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, it can give no assurance that its goals will be achieved. Readers are cautioned that the forward-looking statements in this presentation are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks and uncertainties, and that actual results could differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: weather; fluctuations in supply and demand for energy commodities; growth opportunities for NiSource's businesses; increased competition in deregulated energy markets; the success of regulatory and commercial initiatives; dealings with third parties over whom NiSource has no control; the effectiveness of NiSource's outsourcing initiative; actual operating experience of NiSource assets; the regulatory process; regulatory and legislative changes; changes in general economic, capital and commodity market conditions; and counter-party credit risk.
Forward-Looking Statements
 
Page 9 of 21
 
Page 10 of 21
 
Page 11 of 21
 
Page 12 of 21
 
Page 13 of 21
 
Page 14 of 21
 
Page 15 of 21
Quarter ended December 31, 2005 (in millions)
Quarter ended December 31, 2004 (in millions)
 
Page 16 of 21
Year ended December 31, 2005 (in millions)
Year ended December 31, 2004 (in millions)
 
Page 17 of 21
 
Page 18 of 21
 
Page 19 of 21
 
Page 20 of 21
 
Page 21 of 21
 
 


