FILE:NI/NI-8K-20060223165455.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
At a meeting of the NiSource Inc. (the "Company") board of directors on February 17, 2006, the board of directors, upon the recommendation of the Company's Corporate Governance Committee (the "Governance Committee"), approved an Amended and Restated NiSource Inc. Directors' Charitable Gift Program (the "Program"), which freezes eligibility in the Program such that no director elected on or after February 17, 2006 is eligible to participate in the Program. Under the Program, the Company makes a donation to one or more eligible tax-exempt organizations as designated by each eligible director. Organizations eligible to receive a gift under the program include charitable organizations and accredited United States institutions of higher learning. Individual directors derive no financial benefit from the program, as all deductions relating to the charitable donations accrue solely to the Company. A director's private foundation is not eligible to receive donations under the program.
A copy of the Amended and Restated NiSource Inc. Directors' Charitable Gift Program is attached to this Current Report as exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated by reference into this Item 1.01.
As disclosed in the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on August 26, 2005, Mr. John W. Thompson resigned from the board of directors effective as of August 24, 2005. Mr. Thompson's term as a director was to expire at the annual meeting of stockholders of the Company in 2008. At a meeting of the board of directors on February 17, 2006, the Company's board of directors, upon the recommendation of the Company's Governance Committee, appointed Mr. Peter McCausland to fill the vacancy created by Mr. Thompson's resignation. The board of directors has not yet determined the board committees on which Mr. McCausland will serve.
Mr. McCausland, age 56, is the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Airgas, Inc., a distributor of industrial, medical and specialty gases, welding equipment and safety supplies, a position he has held since 1987. In addition, Mr. McCausland holds in excess of 10% of the outstanding stock of Airgas, Inc. The Company and its subsidiaries use certain of the products sold by Airgas, Inc. in their business operations from time to time and purchase such products from Airgas, Inc. in the ordinary course of business. In 2005, the Company's total purchases of products from Airgas, Inc. were approximately $428,904.
A copy of the press release announcing the appointment of Mr. McCausland and including additional information regarding his background and experience is attached hereto as exhibit 99.1.
(d) Exhibits
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX

 
Exhibit 10.1
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
MERRILLVILLE, Ind.  The Board of Directors of NiSource Inc. (NYSE: NI) has elected Peter McCausland, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Airgas, Inc., to the NiSource Board.
"The NiSource board is honored to have Peter McCausland join our ranks," said Gary L. Neale, Chairman of the Board. "Peter's knowledge of industry, his understanding of financing and the law, and his success in building a business from the ground up complement the experiences of our other independent board members very well."
Airgas, Inc. (NYSE: ARG) is the largest distributor of industrial, medical and specialty gases and welding equipment and one of the largest distributors of safety supplies in the United States. McCausland founded Airgas, Inc. in 1982 and has been the chairman and CEO since 1987. Before starting the firm, he served as general counsel for MG Industries, Inc., an industrial gas producer. He also was a partner in the law firm of McCausland, Keen and Buckman, which specialized in mergers, acquisitions and financings.
McCausland's term on the NiSource board is scheduled to expire on the date of the 2008 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. He fills a vacancy on the board.
 
NiSource elects Peter McCausland to Board of Directors Page 2
NiSource Inc. (NYSE: NI), based in Merrillville, Ind., is a Fortune 500 company engaged in natural gas transmission, storage and distribution, as well as electric generation, transmission and distribution. NiSource operating companies deliver energy to 3.8 million customers located within the high demand energy corridor stretching from the Gulf Coast through the Midwest to New England. Information about NiSource and its subsidiaries is available via the Internet at .
About NiSource
http://www.nisource.com
This news release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Those statements include statements regarding the intent, belief or current expectations of NiSource Inc. and its management. Although NiSource believes that its expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, it can give no assurance that its goals will be achieved. Readers are cautioned that the forward-looking statements in this presentation are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks and uncertainties, and that actual results could differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: weather; fluctuations in supply and demand for energy commodities; growth opportunities for NiSource's businesses; increased competition in deregulated energy markets; the success of regulatory and commercial initiatives; dealings with third parties over whom NiSource has no control; the effectiveness of NiSource's outsourcing initiative; actual operating experience of NiSource assets; the regulatory process; regulatory and legislative changes; changes in general economic, capital and commodity market conditions; and counter-party credit risk.
Forward-Looking Statements


