FILE:NI/NI-8K-20070130080201.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions.
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2 (b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4 (c))
o
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
On January 30, 2007, NiSource Inc. (the "Company") reported its financial results for the year ended December 31, 2006. The Company's press release, dated January 30, 2007, is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
ITEM 5.02.
DEPARTURE OF DIRECTORS OR PRINCIPAL OFFICERS; ELECTION OF DIRECTORS; APPOINTMENT OF PRINCIPAL OFFICERS
On January 25, 2007, Robert J. Welsh delivered a letter to the board of directors of NiSource Inc. expressing his preference to not be renominated for election as a director at the NiSource Inc. 2007 annual meeting of stockholders.
ITEM 9.01.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(d) Exhibits
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX

 
Exhibit 99.1
801 E. 86th Avenue Merrillville, IN 46410
January 30, 2007
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
MERRILLVILLE, Ind.  NiSource Inc. (NYSE: NI) today announced higher net operating earnings (non-GAAP) of $388.5 million, or $1.43 per share, for the 12 months ended Dec. 31, 2006, compared with $375.9 million, or $1.38 per share, for 2005 (all per-share amounts are basic).
Operating earnings (non-GAAP) were $1,002.0 million for 2006, essentially flat with $1,003.3 million during 2005. Schedules 1 and 2 of this news release contain a reconciliation of net operating earnings and operating earnings to GAAP.
Primary drivers of the improvement in net operating earnings were: strong results in the electric business; optimization of transportation and storage services in the NiSource gas transmission and storage business; and an approximately $33 million decrease in interest expense due to the refinancing of $2.4 billion in long-term debt during 2005 at lower rates. These improvements were partially offset by reduced residential natural gas usage and increased customer attrition in the gas distribution business, increased losses at the Whiting Clean Energy unit, and higher operation and maintenance expenses.
"Overall, our core operating companies delivered solid performance during 2006," said NiSource President and Chief Executive Officer Robert C. Skaggs, Jr. "While our gas distribution business continued to be challenged by the dynamics of customer usage and attrition, we have begun to address these issues through the regulatory process in our various markets, and we made and continue to make significant progress on our efforts to expand and optimize our extensive natural gas transmission and storage system. In addition, our electric business continued to grow in terms of number of customers, volumes and operating earnings."
 
NiSource reports improved 2006 performance
Page 2
Significant accomplishments during 2006
The company continues to make progress on its four-point plan for long-term, sustainable growth, Skaggs noted. The balanced plan centers on NiSource's portfolio of regulated assets and includes: commercial growth and expansion of the gas transmission and storage business; commercial and regulatory initiatives; management of the balance sheet; and process and expense management. Specific milestones achieved during 2006 included:
 
NiSource reports improved 2006 performance
Page 3
Financial and strategic review continues
"While our four-point plan continues to gain traction as we execute on these multiple fronts, NiSource's senior management and Board of Directors remain intently focused on completing the strategic and financial review process initiated during 2006 to unlock the underlying value of the company's asset base and position it for the future," Skaggs said. "As I indicated when we released third-quarter earnings in November of last year, we expect to be in a position to communicate the results of our process and NiSource's path forward early this year. We remain committed to sharing information with investors and all other stakeholders in a transparent and timely fashion when decisions are made.
"NiSource does not intend to issue 2007 earnings guidance at this time," Skaggs said. "Once we are in a position to share the outcome of our review process, I would anticipate providing additional information concerning our going-forward plan and outlook for the future."
Overview of 2006 operating earnings (non-GAAP) performance by business segment
Gas Distribution Operations
NiSource's Gas Distribution Operations segment reported operating earnings of $373.8 million, down from $394.2 million in 2005. The $20.4 million decline was primarily due to reductions in residential customer usage.
"Residential gas usage among NiSource's distribution customers declined by about 4 percent during 2006, compared with 0.5 percent to 1 percent annual usage declines experienced historically," Skaggs said. "We believe the usage decline experienced during 2006 was in response to higher market prices for natural gas, particularly in the aftermath of the 2005 hurricane season. As prices decreased during the latter part of 2006, we did see some moderation in the levels of usage erosion. For 2007, we are projecting usage declines of 2 percent to 3 percent."
On the issue of customer attrition, Skaggs noted that the return of customers to the NiSource gas distribution systems during the fall light-up season was relatively encouraging. "Our data indicates that residential customer attrition for 2006 was approximately 0.8 percent. While this is somewhat above the historic levels of about 0.5 percent, it is well below the more elevated levels that were indicated earlier in the year," he said. "Again, we believe moderating gas prices played a meaningful role in terms of the return of customers to our gas distribution systems." Skaggs noted that the company will continue to closely monitor this issue over the coming months.
"We have stepped up our efforts to pursue regulatory initiatives that will address customer conservation," Skaggs added. "In addition, we are participating in an American Gas Association study that is designed to look at the root causes of this issue across our industry and address potential solutions. The study is expected to be completed within the next several months, and we look forward to reviewing its conclusions and recommendations."
NiSource's Columbia Gas of Pennsylvania unit also is participating in a working group formed by that state's Public Utility Commission to address issues relating to residential customer demand, including potential changes in rate design. Likewise, Indiana regulators recently have begun a similar process that could lead to a generic approach to rate design and customer conservation in the state. NIPSCO will be an active participant in the process.
 
NiSource reports improved 2006 performance
Page 4
On a positive note, Skaggs said, the Gas Distribution segment's energy supply team capitalized on short-term market opportunities throughout the year, using the NiSource distribution business's extensive supply and storage portfolio to increase revenues that are shared with customers under various regulatory mechanisms.
Gas Transmission and Storage Operations
Operating earnings for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment were $357.6 million, up from $349.6 million during 2005. Net revenues increased by $48.9 million, primarily due to increased demand services and sales of shorter-term transportation and storage services. Operating expenses increased by $41.4 million mainly due to higher legal reserves, pipeline integrity expenses, property insurance premiums, and employee and administrative costs as the segment continues to build its commercial resources.
"Our commercial team did an outstanding job of optimizing our market-leading storage and pipeline platform," Skaggs said. During 2006, the Gas Transmission and Storage team signed new agreements that resulted in more than $45 million in new revenue.
At the same time, the transmission business continues to make progress on significant asset expansion projects. As previously mentioned, Millennium Pipeline received FERC approval to begin construction and is on track to begin service in November 2008. Construction began during 2006 on the Hardy Storage project, a joint venture between Columbia Gas Transmission and a subsidiary of Piedmont Natural Gas Company. Service is on schedule to begin in April 2007.
Columbia Gas Transmission will file a certificate application with FERC during the first half of 2007 for its fully subscribed Eastern Market Expansion project. This project is underpinned by binding precedent agreements with four anchor customers. Service is on target to begin during the second quarter of 2009. In addition to these relatively advanced projects, NiSource's Gas Transmission and Storage unit has a significant number of projects at various stages of the development cycle. They include projects driven by continuing core demand growth in mid-Atlantic and East Coast markets, as well as projects designed to capitalize on opportunities created by changing supply patterns across the country.
Electric Operations
NiSource's electric business reported operating earnings of $314.1 million for 2006, compared with $292.1 million during 2005. The increase was due to lower unrecoverable costs associated with the Midwest Independent System Operator (MISO), timing of revenue credits, increased industrial volumes and customer growth. These increases were partially offset by higher electric generation and maintenance expenses.
"Our northern Indiana electric business had a very strong year," Skaggs stated. "Steady residential and commercial growth, and continued strength in industrial sales volumes helped drive this solid performance. Sales volumes to NIPSCO's largest electric customers were up 4.1 percent in 2006, compared with year-end 2005 levels."
 
NiSource reports improved 2006 performance
Page 5
Other Operations
The Other Operations segment reported an operating earnings loss of $24.3 million, compared with an operating earnings loss of $13.3 million during 2005, due mainly to increased losses at WCE. Going forward, WCE's operating results are expected to improve under the revised agreement with BP discussed above. Reflecting this improvement, Skaggs said he expects the Other Operations segment to approach operating earnings neutrality in 2007.
Income from Continuing Operations (GAAP)
On a GAAP basis, NiSource reported income from continuing operations for the 12 months ended Dec. 31, 2006, of $313.5 million, or $1.15 per share, compared with $284.1 million, or $1.05 per share, in 2005. Operating income was $880.0 million during 2006, compared with $952.6 million in 2005. In addition to the impacts already discussed, unfavorable weather impacted 2006 operating income by approximately $83 million as NiSource's gas markets experienced 12 percent warmer than normal weather over the 12-month period, and the northern Indiana electric market had an 11 percent cooler than normal summer cooling season.
In addition, 2006 GAAP results were impacted by two charges recorded during the fourth quarter. NiSource accrued a $17 million liability in conjunction with the BP contract revision discussed above, and a $13 million charge reflecting its share of the write-off of certain Millennium Pipeline capitalized costs no longer recoverable under the current project plan approved by FERC.
Loss from Discontinued Operations (GAAP)
NiSource adjusted its accrual for litigation related to a West Virginia class action lawsuit. As previously reported, NiSource and its co-defendant intend to aggressively appeal any adverse judgment in the case involving Columbia Natural Resources, a former NiSource subsidiary. Consistent with the company's position that it at all times has acted in good faith, no accrual has been made for punitive damages.
Definition of non-GAAP measures
NiSource focuses on net operating earnings and operating earnings, which are both non-GAAP measures, because management believes these measures better represent the fundamental earnings strength and performance of the company. NiSource uses these measures internally for budgeting, for reporting to the board of directors, and for purposes of determining the payout under NiSource's annual incentive compensation plan for its employees.
Net operating earnings are a non-GAAP financial measure that NiSource defines as income from continuing operations determined in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) adjusted for certain items. Operating earnings are operating income determined in accordance with GAAP adjusted for certain items. Adjustments reflected in these measures are primarily weather, restructuring and transition costs related to the outsourcing contract with IBM, gains and losses on the sale or impairment of assets, certain reserve adjustments and other items. See Schedule 1 and Schedule 2 of this news release for the reconciliations of net operating earnings and operating earnings, respectively, to GAAP.
Conference call to be held this morning (Jan. 30)
NiSource will host an analyst conference call at 9 a.m. EST on Tuesday, Jan. 30, 2007, to further discuss the company's year-end and fourth-quarter 2006 results. All interested parties may hear the conference call live by logging on to the NiSource Web site at .
www.nisource.com
 
NiSource reports improved 2006 performance
Page 6
NiSource's consolidated operating earnings (non-GAAP) for the 12 months ended Dec. 31, 2006 were $1,002.0 million, compared to $1,003.3 million for 2005. Refer to Schedule 2 for the items included in 2006 and 2005 GAAP operating income but excluded from operating earnings.
Twelve-Month Period 2006 Operating Earnings  Segment Results (non-GAAP)
Operating earnings for NiSource's business segments for the 12 months ended Dec. 31, 2006 are discussed below.
reported operating earnings of $373.8 million versus operating earnings of $394.2 million in 2005. The decrease in operating earnings was due primarily to declines in residential customer usage, higher employee and administrative expenses, and higher depreciation charges. These impacts were partially offset by increased revenues that are shared with customers under various regulatory mechanisms, a change in a restructuring reserve balance for leased office space, lower uncollectible accounts and customer growth.
Gas Distribution Operations
Comparability of Gas Distribution Operations line item operating results is impacted by regulatory trackers that allow for the recovery in rates of certain costs such as bad debt expenses. Increases in the expenses that are the subject of trackers result in a corresponding increase in net revenues and therefore have essentially no impact on total operating earnings results. Approximately $50.5 million of the increase in operation and maintenance expenses were subject to such trackers and were therefore primarily offset by a corresponding increase to net revenues reflecting recovery of certain costs.
reported operating earnings of $357.6 million versus operating earnings of $349.6 million during 2005. The increase resulted from $48.9 million of higher net revenues primarily due to increased subscriptions for demand services and sales of shorter-term transportation and storage services. Seasonal price fluctuations in the national energy market created opportunities for customers to utilize existing short-term tariff services. Operating expenses increased by $41.4 million mainly due to higher legal reserves, employee and administrative costs, pipeline integrity expenses, and property insurance premiums. The increased property insurance costs were attributable to increases in premiums for offshore and onshore facilities located in or near the Gulf of Mexico. Such increases were driven by the losses experienced by the insurance industry over the past few years, resulting from hurricanes such as Ivan, Katrina and Rita.
Gas Transmission and Storage Operations
reported operating earnings of $314.1 million versus operating earnings of $292.1 million during last year. This $22.0 million increase in operating earnings was due to lower unrecoverable MISO costs, timing of revenue credits, increased industrial volumes, and customer growth. The lower unrecoverable MISO costs resulted mainly from the IURC's second quarter ruling on the recoverability of certain MISO costs as well as the deferral of certain costs for future recovery which began on Aug. 1, 2006. These increases were partially offset by higher electric generation and maintenance expenses.
Electric Operations
 
NiSource reports improved 2006 performance
Page 7
reported an operating earnings loss of $24.3 million compared to an operating earnings loss of $13.3 million last year mainly due to increased losses at the Whiting Clean Energy facility offset by lower uncollectible accounts and higher gas marketing margins.
Other Operations
reported an operating earnings loss of $19.2 million essentially flat with an operating earnings loss of $19.3 million during 2005. Higher consulting and outside service costs were offset by lower employee and administrative expenses.
Corporate
Interest expense decreased by $32.7 million due to the refinancing of $2.4 billion in long-term debt during 2005 at lower rates. Other, net expense of $6.5 million compares to other, net income of $14.0 million last year due primarily to lower interest income and higher costs related to the sale of accounts receivable. Higher fees, due to higher interest rates, and increased levels of accounts receivable balances resulted in the higher costs.
Other Items
 
NiSource reports improved 2006 performance
Page 8
NiSource's consolidated fourth-quarter 2006 operating earnings (non-GAAP) were $287.6 million, compared to $294.3 million for the same period in 2005. Refer to Schedule 2 for the items included in 2006 and 2005 GAAP operating income but excluded from operating earnings.
Fourth-Quarter 2006 Operating Earnings  Segment Results (non-GAAP)
Operating earnings for NiSource's business segments for the quarter ended Dec. 31, 2006 are discussed below.
reported operating earnings of $142.4 million compared to operating earnings of $146.6 million during the comparable quarter of 2005. The decrease in operating earnings was due primarily to declines in residential customer usage and higher employee and administrative expenses partially offset by lower uncollectible accounts, increased commercial and industrial volumes and customer growth.
Gas Distribution Operations
reported operating earnings of $96.4 million compared with operating earnings of $97.3 million in the fourth quarter of 2005. Increased net revenues of $19.6 million were more than offset by higher operating expenses of $20.3 million. The higher net revenues were due primarily to sales of shorter-term transportation and storage services. Seasonal price fluctuations in the national energy market continued to create opportunities for customers to utilize existing short-term tariff services. The operating expense increase was mainly due to higher legal reserves, pipeline integrity expenses, property insurance premiums, and employee and administrative expenses.
Gas Transmission and Storage Operations
reported operating earnings of $63.0 million versus operating earnings of $57.5 million from the comparable period last year. Increased net revenues of $10.9 million were due primarily to lower unrecoverable MISO costs included in costs of sales and higher demand revenues and customer growth. The increase in operating expenses of $5.4 million resulted from higher employee and administrative expenses.
Electric Operations
reported an operating earnings loss of $9.4 million in the fourth quarter of 2006, versus operating earnings of $0.9 million in the fourth quarter of 2005. The $10.3 million decrease in operating earnings primarily resulted from increased losses at the Whiting Clean Energy facility.
Other Operations
reported an operating earnings loss of $4.8 million in the fourth quarter of 2006, versus an operating earnings loss of $8.0 million in the fourth quarter of 2005. The decreased loss was due to lower operation and maintenance expenses and non-utility taxes.
Corporate
Interest expense decreased by $5.7 million due to the refinancing of $2.4 billion in long-term debt during 2005 at lower rates. Other, net income of $0.4 million compares to other, net income of $7.6 million in the fourth quarter of 2005 due primarily to lower interest income and higher fees due to increased interest costs related to the sale of accounts receivable.
Other Items
 
NiSource reports improved 2006 performance
Page 9
NiSource Inc. (NYSE: NI), based in Merrillville, Ind., is a Fortune 500 company engaged in natural gas transmission, storage and distribution, as well as electric generation, transmission and distribution. NiSource operating companies deliver energy to 3.8 million customers located within the high-demand energy corridor stretching from the Gulf Coast through the Midwest to New England. Information about NiSource and its subsidiaries is available via the Internet at . NI-F
About NiSource
www.nisource.com
This news release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Those statements include statements regarding the intent, belief or current expectations of NiSource and its management. Although NiSource believes that its expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, it can give no assurance that its goals will be achieved. Readers are cautioned that the forward-looking statements in this presentation are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks and uncertainties, and that actual results could differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: weather; fluctuations in supply and demand for energy commodities; growth opportunities for NiSource's businesses; increased competition in deregulated energy markets; the success of regulatory and commercial initiatives; dealings with third parties over whom NiSource has no control; the effectiveness of NiSource's outsourcing initiative; actual operating experience of NiSource assets; the regulatory process; regulatory and legislative changes; changes in general economic, capital and commodity market conditions; and counter-party credit risk.
Forward-Looking Statements
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


