FILE:NI/NI-8K-20070802083544.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions.
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
On August 2, 2007, NiSource Inc. (the "Company") reported its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2007. The Company's press release, dated August 2, 2007, is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
ITEM 9.01.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
August 2, 2007
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
NiSource Inc. (NYSE: NI) today announced net operating earnings (non-GAAP) of $27.8 million, or 10 cents per share, for the three months ended June 30, 2007, compared with $38.4 million, or 14 cents per share, for the second quarter of 2006 (all per-share amounts are basic). Operating earnings (non-GAAP) were $142.7 million for the second quarter of 2007, compared to $157.3 million in 2006. For a reconciliation of net operating earnings and operating earnings to GAAP, see Schedules 1 and 2 of this news release.
MERRILLVILLE, Ind. 
"NiSource's second quarter results are consistent with our earnings outlook for 2007, and continue to reflect solid performance from each of our core business segments," NiSource President and Chief Executive Officer Robert C. Skaggs, Jr. said. In May, NiSource indicated that net operating earnings for 2007 were expected to be approximately $1.35 per share.
Overall, net revenues were higher for the second quarter when compared with the prior year, driven primarily by increased electric and gas distribution revenues and improved performance from NiSource's Whiting Clean Energy unit. These improvements were more than offset by increased operating and maintenance expenses when compared to the prior-year period. Earnings also were affected by increased interest expense and lower short-term transportation services and optimization revenues in NiSource's gas transmission and storage business.
 
The increased operating and maintenance costs for the quarter were primarily related to employee and administrative expenses, including payroll, benefits and corporate services, Skaggs noted. "Within corporate services, the cost increases were related to NiSource's business services arrangement with IBM. As we noted earlier this year, NiSource is conducting an assessment of that business services arrangement to determine what adjustments can be made to enable NiSource to achieve its business objectives going forward," Skaggs said.
Progress on four-part business plan and path forward' initiatives
Skaggs said NiSource business units made progress on key elements of the company's four-part business plan. That strategy centers on expansion of and commercial growth in the natural gas pipeline and storage business, regulatory and commercial initiatives at its utilities, financial management, and process and expense management.
"NiSource's key business strategies and stream of new projects in the Gas Transmission and Storage segment continued to advance during the quarter," Skaggs said. "Additionally, our planned utility rate cases are moving forward, with regulatory outreach and engagement taking place on several fronts. These activities all require time and effort before generating earnings, but together they are the key to achieving a stable and sustainable 3 to 5 percent annual earnings growth rate by 2010."
Among the examples of second-quarter business accomplishments Skaggs cited were:
 
Among other ongoing business activities, Skaggs noted, was NiSource's analysis of the potential formation of a Master Limited Partnership in connection with a portion of its gas transmission and storage assets and prospective growth projects.
"As we have previously indicated, we are accelerating our review of the MLP option," Skaggs said. "While our analysis is ongoing and no definitive conclusions have been reached at this point, such a structure has the potential to provide additional financial flexibility and access to low cost capital, which would complement our GT&S strategy."
Consolidated operating earnings and operating earnings for NiSource's business segments for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 are discussed below.
Second Quarter 2007 Operating Earnings  Segment Results (non-GAAP)
NiSource's consolidated second-quarter 2007 operating earnings (non-GAAP) were $142.7 million, compared to $157.3 million for the same period in 2006. Refer to Schedule 2 for the items included in 2007 and 2006 GAAP operating income but excluded from operating earnings.
Operating earnings for NiSource's business segments for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 are discussed below.
 
reported operating earnings of $8.7 million versus operating earnings of $12.5 million in the second quarter of 2006. The decrease resulted primarily from higher operating expenses, partially offset by increased net revenues. Operating expenses, excluding the impact of trackers, were $11.1 million higher than the prior year, mainly due to higher employee and administrative expenses, outside services, and environmental reserves. Net revenues, excluding the impact of trackers, were $6.8 million higher than the same period in 2006, primarily as the result of regulatory initiatives and other service programs.
Gas Distribution Operations
reported operating earnings of $74.4 million versus operating earnings of $80.5 million in the second quarter of 2006. The decrease resulted from lower shorter-term transportation services and optimization revenues and higher operating expenses, partially offset by higher earnings from equity investments. While stabilization in the natural gas market did moderate optimization revenues during the second quarter, demand and commodity revenues were up compared to last year. Equity earnings increased by $3.6 million due to Hardy Storage going in service in April 2007 and higher AFUDC earnings from Millennium Pipeline. Operating expenses increased by $4.7 million for the quarter, mainly due to higher employee and administrative expenses and property insurance premiums.
Gas Transmission and Storage Operations
reported operating earnings of $61.8 million versus operating earnings of $67.0 million from the same quarter last year. Increases in net revenues were more than offset by higher operating expenses. Operating expenses increased by $11.8 million due primarily to higher employee and administrative costs. Net revenue increased by $6.6 million as a result of higher wholesale volumes and margins, residential volumes and overall customer growth.
Electric Operations
reported an operating earnings loss of $0.6 million in the second quarter of 2007, compared with an operating earnings loss of $3.1 million in the prior year period. The improvement resulted from higher net revenues from the Whiting Clean Energy facility, partially offset by increased planned turbine maintenance costs at that facility.
Other Operations
Other Items
Interest expense increased by $4.7 million due to higher short-term interest rates and credit facility fees. Other net was a loss of $0.4 million compared to a loss of $2.7 million last year. The improvement resulted primarily from higher interest income in the current period.
Six Month Period 2007 Operating Earnings  Segment Results (non-GAAP)
NiSource's consolidated operating earnings (non-GAAP) for the six months ended June 30, 2007 were $575.4 million, compared to $571.8 million for the same period in 2006. Refer to Schedule 2 for the items included in 2007 and 2006 GAAP operating income but excluded from operating earnings.
Operating earnings for NiSource's business segments for the six months ended June 30, 2007 are discussed below.
 
reported operating earnings of $266.9 million compared to $262.6 million reported for the first six months of 2006. Increases in net revenues were partially offset by increased operating expenses. Net revenues, excluding the impact of trackers, were $22.8 million higher due to customer growth, regulatory initiatives and increased commercial sales. Operating expenses, excluding the impact of trackers, were $18.8 million higher than last year primarily due to higher employee and administrative costs, and outside service expenses.
Gas Distribution Operations
reported operating earnings of $182.1 million versus operating earnings of $191.9 million in the first six months of 2006. The decrease resulted from higher operating expenses of $14 million mainly due to higher employee and administrative expenses, property insurance premiums, and other maintenance and outside service costs. The higher expenses were partially offset by higher earnings from equity investments. Gas Transmission and Storage net revenues for the first six months were essentially flat when compared with the prior year period. Equity earnings increased by $5.3 million due to Hardy Storage going in service in April 2007 and higher AFUDC earnings from Millennium Pipeline.
Gas Transmission and Storage Operations
reported operating earnings of $135.1 million for the first six months of 2007, compared with $138.0 million for the prior year period. Net revenues increased by $13.5 million due to increased residential volumes, increased wholesale margins and customer growth, partially offset by decreased industrial volumes and the timing of revenue credits. The increases in net revenues were more than offset by higher operating expenses, which increased by $16.4 million due primarily to higher employee and administrative costs, and electric generation and maintenance expenses.
Electric Operations
reported an operating earnings loss of $3.8 million in the first six months of 2007, versus an operating earnings loss of $14.8 million in the first six months of 2006. The $11 million decrease in the operating earnings loss primarily resulted from lower losses at the Whiting Clean Energy facility. As previously announced, NiSource unit Whiting Clean Energy (WCE) and BP signed a definitive agreement at the end of 2006 redefining the terms under which WCE provides steam to BP for its oil refining process.
Other Operations
Interest expense increased by $8.0 million due to higher short-term interest rates and credit facility fees. Other net was a loss of $3.2 million compared to a loss of $6.1 million last year. The improvement resulted primarily from higher interest income in the current six-month period. The effective tax rate of net operating earnings for 2007 is 37.2%. Last year's effective tax rate of 35.5% was favorably impacted by state deferred income tax adjustments recorded during the first quarter of 2006.
Other Items
On a GAAP basis, NiSource reported income from continuing operations for the three months ended June 30, 2007, of $28.2 million, or 11 cents per share, compared with $22.1 million, or 8 cents per share, in the same period a year ago. Operating income was $143.3 million for the second quarter of 2007, compared with $132.7 million in the year-ago period. In addition to the business results already discussed, the increase in earnings was primarily due to favorable weather in NiSource's gas distribution and electric markets during the quarter compared to 2006.
Income from Continuing Operations (GAAP)
On a GAAP basis, NiSource reported income from continuing operations for the six months ended June 30, 2007, of $237.3 million, or 87 cents per share, compared with $195.1 million, or 71 cents
 
per share, in the same period a year ago. Operating income was $577.9 million for the first six months of 2007 versus $500.3 million in the year-ago period. Similar to the quarter ended June 30, 2007, the increase in earnings for the first half of 2007 was due to increased gas distribution and electric revenues, primarily due to favorable weather.
NiSource focuses on net operating earnings and operating earnings, which are both non-GAAP measures, because management believes these measures better represent the fundamental earnings strength and performance of the company. NiSource uses these measures internally for budgeting, for reporting to the board of directors, and for purposes of determining the payout under NiSource's annual incentive compensation plan for its employees.
Definition of non-GAAP measures
Net operating earnings are a non-GAAP financial measure that NiSource defines as income from continuing operations determined in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) adjusted for certain items. Operating earnings are operating income determined in accordance with GAAP adjusted for certain items. Adjustments reflected in these measures are primarily weather, restructuring and transition costs related to the outsourcing contract with IBM, gains and losses on the sale of assets, certain reserve adjustments and other items. See Schedule 1 and Schedule 2 of this news release for the reconciliations of net operating earnings and operating earnings, respectively, to GAAP.
NiSource Inc. (NYSE: NI), based in Merrillville, Ind., is a Fortune 500 company engaged in natural gas transmission, storage and distribution, as well as electric generation, transmission and distribution. NiSource operating companies deliver energy to 3.8 million customers located within the high-demand energy corridor stretching from the Gulf Coast through the Midwest to New England. Information about NiSource and its subsidiaries is available via the Internet at . NI-F
About NiSource
www.nisource.com
This news release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Those statements include statements regarding the intent, belief or current expectations of NiSource and its management. Although NiSource believes that its expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, it can give no assurance that its goals will be achieved. Readers are cautioned that the forward-looking statements in this presentation are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks and uncertainties, and that actual results could differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: weather; fluctuations in supply and demand for energy commodities; growth opportunities for NiSource's businesses; increased competition in deregulated energy markets; the success of regulatory and commercial initiatives; dealings with third parties over whom NiSource has no control; the effectiveness of NiSource's outsourcing initiative; actual operating experience of NiSource assets; the regulatory process; regulatory and legislative changes; changes in general economic, capital and commodity market conditions; and counter-party credit risk.
Forward-Looking Statements
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


