FILE:NI/NI-8K-20071102070111.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions.
 
 
Table of Contents
ITEM 2.02.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
On November 2, 2007, NiSource Inc. (the "Company") reported its financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2007. The Company's press release, dated November 2, 2007, is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
ITEM 9.01.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(d) Exhibits
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents
EXHIBIT INDEX

 
Exhibit 99.1
November 2, 2007
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
NiSource Inc. (NYSE: NI) today announced net operating earnings (non-GAAP) of $21.5 million, or 8 cents per share, for the three months ended Sept. 30, 2007, compared with $29.6 million, or 11 cents per share, for the third quarter of 2006 (all per-share amounts are basic). Operating earnings (non-GAAP) were $132.4 million for the third quarter, compared to $142.9 million for the same period in 2006. The operating earnings reduction is the result of a one-time $16.2 million reserve associated with a Northern Indiana Public Service Company (NIPSCO) regulatory settlement discussed later in this news release. For a reconciliation of net operating earnings and operating earnings to GAAP, see Schedules 1 and 2 of this news release.
MERRILLVILLE, Ind. 
"In addition to delivering solid third quarter performance across our core businesses, including our Whiting Clean Energy (WCE) unit, the NiSource team has recently made significant progress on several threshold business initiatives," Skaggs said. "These initiatives, which involved each of our major business units, advance NiSource's ongoing efforts to reposition the company for long-term, sustainable earnings growth. They are, in many respects, watershed events that will help unlock the underlying value of our assets, address legacy issues, and set the stage for future earnings growth."
 
Key Business Initiatives Advance
In particular, Skaggs highlighted several important recent accomplishments designed to further advance NiSource's long-term business strategy:
 
"This list of recent accomplishments unequivocally shows that we are moving aggressively, and thoughtfully, to clear the deck of distractions, engage our stakeholders and make investments so that we can better position our teams to execute on NiSource's growth strategy," Skaggs added. "As a reminder, our investment-driven strategy is premised on enhancing and expanding NiSource's core strategic assets, executing on an array of promising growth prospects, and synchronizing our investments with complementary commercial and regulatory initiatives."
Intent to form MLP
Skaggs also noted NiSource's intention to proceed with the formation of a Master Limited Partnership (MLP) for certain gas transmission and storage assets. He said NiSource intends to file a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission, following board approval, later this year for the offer and sale of limited partnership interests in a new subsidiary.
"We believe the formation of a master limited partnership is a natural complement to our gas transmission and storage growth strategy, and should provide access to competitively priced capital to support future growth investment," Skaggs said.
Earnings Outlook Affirmed
Skaggs noted that NiSource remains on track to achieve its 2007 net operating earnings (non-GAAP) outlook of approximately $1.35 per share. On a GAAP basis, basic earnings per share from continuing operations are projected to be approximately $1.21, which reflects the items shown on Schedule 1 of this news release, plus expected charges which will be recorded in the fourth quarter relating to the agreement-in-principle reached with IBM and the early retirement of the debt related to the proposed sale of WCE to NIPSCO.
Net operating earnings per share (non-GAAP) and basic earnings per share from continuing operations for the 2008-2010 period are expected to fall within a range of $1.25 to $1.35. Thereafter, NiSource expects its ongoing capital investment program of more than $1 billion per year to produce meaningful annual growth in earnings per share.
"Our outlook is premised on executing on our investment and regulatory strategy for our regulated utilities, as well as on our inventory of growth projects in the gas transmission and storage segment of our business," Skaggs said.
 
Continued Execution on Four-Part Plan
Skaggs cited several examples of continuing progress on key elements of NiSource's long-term plan for achieving sustainable earnings growth:
 
"Our teams are continuing to execute across all elements of our four-part growth strategy," Skaggs said. "Whether via commercial growth and expansion of our transmission and storage business, investment-driven regulatory and commercial initiatives, or via strong financial, process and expense management, we are committed to delivering on NiSource's long-term growth prospects."
Third Quarter 2007 Operating Earnings  Segment Results (non-GAAP)
NiSource's consolidated operating earnings (non-GAAP) for the quarter ended Sept. 30, 2007, were $132.4 million, compared to $142.9 million for the same period in 2006. Refer to Schedule 2 for the items included in 2007 and 2006 GAAP operating income but excluded from operating earnings.
Operating earnings for NiSource's business segments for the three months ended Sept. 30, 2007, are discussed below.
reported an operating earnings loss of $41.9 million versus an operating earnings loss of $30.8 million in the third quarter of 2006. The increased loss resulted primarily from higher operating expenses, partially offset by increased net revenues. Operating expenses, excluding the impact of trackers, were $14.7 million higher than the prior year, mainly due to higher employee and administrative expenses, property taxes, depreciation costs, and a reversal of a restructuring charge that benefited last year's results by $5.1 million. The employee and administrative costs include payroll, benefits and corporate services. Net revenues, excluding the impact of trackers, were $3.3 million higher than the same period in 2006, primarily as the result of regulatory initiatives and other service programs.
Gas Distribution Operations
reported operating earnings of $75.4 million versus operating earnings of $69.4 million in the third quarter of 2006. The increase resulted primarily from higher net revenues from firm capacity reservation fees. A key driver behind this improvement is that Columbia Gulf mainline pipeline throughput has increased as a result of higher storage injections, gas-fired electric generation demands, and increased marketing activities. Operating expenses, excluding the impact of trackers, were slightly lower than the comparable period last year.
Gas Transmission and Storage Operations
reported operating earnings of $102 million versus operating earnings of $113.1 million from the same quarter last year. Net revenue decreased by $5.3 million due primarily to a $16.2 million reduction associated with the settlement relating to power purchased by NIPSCO (discussed earlier). These decreases were partially offset by higher wholesale and commercial margins and lower unrecoverable Midwest Independent System Transmission Operator (MISO) costs. Operating expenses increased by $5.8 million due primarily to higher employee and administrative costs and restoration costs associated with severe storms experienced during the quarter.
Electric Operations
reported operating earnings of $5.5 million in the third quarter of 2007, compared with an operating earnings loss of $0.1 million in the prior year period. The improvement resulted from higher net revenues from the Whiting Clean Energy facility.
Other Operations
 
Other Items
Interest expense increased by $4.6 million during the third quarter due to higher short-term interest rates. Other net income improved to $1.4 million compared to a loss of $0.8 million last year. The improvement resulted primarily from higher interest income in the current period.
Nine Months Period 2007 Operating Earnings  Segment Results (non-GAAP)
NiSource's consolidated operating earnings (non-GAAP) for the nine months ended September 30, 2007 were $707.8 million, compared to $714.3 million for the same period in 2006. Refer to Schedule 2 for the items included in 2007 and 2006 GAAP operating income but excluded from operating earnings.
Operating earnings for NiSource's business segments for the nine months ended Sept. 30, 2007, are discussed below.
reported operating earnings of $225 million compared to $231.4 million reported for the first nine months of 2006. Increases in net revenues were more than offset by increased operating expenses. Net revenues, excluding the impact of trackers, were $26.1 million higher due to customer growth, increased commercial volumes, and regulatory initiatives and other service programs. Operating expenses, excluding the impact of trackers, were $33.1 million higher than last year primarily due to higher employee and administrative costs, outside service expenses, property taxes, and reversal of a restructuring charge that benefited last year's results by $5.1 million. The employee and administrative costs include payroll, benefits and corporate services. Within corporate services, the cost increases were primarily related to NiSource's business services arrangement with IBM.
Gas Distribution Operations
reported operating earnings of $257.5 million versus operating earnings of $261.2 million in the first nine months of 2006. The decrease resulted from higher operating expenses, excluding the impact of trackers, of $11.8 million, mainly due to higher employee and administrative expenses, property insurance premiums, and other maintenance costs. The employee and administrative costs include payroll, benefits and corporate services. The higher expenses were partially offset by higher net revenues and earnings from equity investments. Gas Transmission and Storage operations net revenues, excluding the impact of trackers, increased by $1.1 million as higher net revenues from firm capacity reservation fees more than offset lower revenues from shorter term transportation and storage services. While stabilization in the natural gas market has moderated optimization revenues this year, firm capacity and commodity revenues have been strong compared to last year. A key driver behind this improvement is that the Columbia Gulf mainline pipeline throughput has increased as a result of higher storage injections, gas-fired electric generation demands, and increased marketing activities. Equity earnings from unconsolidated affiliates increased by $7.0 million, due to Hardy Storage going into service in April 2007 and higher AFUDC earnings from Millennium Pipeline.
Gas Transmission and Storage Operations
reported operating earnings of $237.1 million for the first nine months of 2007, compared with $251.1 million for the prior year period. Net revenues increased by $8.2 million due to increased wholesale and commercial margins, residential volumes, lower unrecoverable MISO costs and overall customer growth, partially offset by an accrual that was recorded for the settlement relating to power purchased by NIPSCO (discussed earlier), decreased industrial volumes and margins and the timing of revenue credits. The increases in net revenues were more
Electric Operations
 
than offset by higher operating expenses, which increased by $22.2 million due primarily to higher employee and administrative costs, electric generation and maintenance expenses, and restoration costs associated with the severe storms experienced during the third quarter of this year, and higher depreciation costs and property taxes. The employee and administrative costs include payroll, benefits and corporate services.
reported operating earnings of $1.7 million in the first nine months of 2007, versus an operating earnings loss of $14.9 million in the first nine months of 2006. The $16.6 million improvement was caused primarily by improved results at the Whiting Clean Energy facility. As previously announced, Whiting Clean Energy (WCE) and BP signed a definitive agreement at the end of 2006 redefining the terms under which WCE provides steam to BP for its oil refining process.
Other Operations
Interest expense increased by $12.6 million due to higher short-term interest rates and credit facility fees. Other net income was a loss of $1.8 million compared to a loss of $6.9 million last year. The improvement resulted primarily from higher interest income in the current nine-month period. The effective tax rate was 37%. Last year's effective tax rate of 35.6% was favorably impacted by state deferred income tax adjustments recorded during the first quarter of 2006.
Other Items
On a GAAP basis, NiSource reported income from continuing operations for the three months ended Sept. 30, 2007, of $9.8 million, or 3 cents per share, compared with $26 million, or 10 cents per share, in the same period a year ago. Operating income was $112.9 million for the third quarter of 2007, compared with $136.5 million in the year-ago period. The decrease in earnings was primarily due to the accrual that was recorded for the settlement relating to power purchased by NIPSCO (discussed earlier).
Income from Continuing Operations (GAAP)
On a GAAP basis, NiSource reported income from continuing operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2007, of $247.1 million, or 90 cents per share, compared with $221.1 million, or 81 cents per share, in the same period a year ago. Operating income was $690.8 million for the first nine months of 2007 versus $636.8 million in the year-ago period. The increase in earnings for the first nine months of 2007 was due to increased revenues, primarily due to favorable weather, along with the other factors discussed within the business segments.
NiSource focuses on net operating earnings and operating earnings, which are both non-GAAP measures, because management believes these measures better represent the fundamental earnings strength and performance of the company. NiSource uses these measures internally for budgeting, for reporting to the board of directors, and for purposes of determining the payout under NiSource's annual incentive compensation plan for its employees.
Definition of non-GAAP measures
Net operating earnings are a non-GAAP financial measure that NiSource defines as income from continuing operations determined in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) adjusted for certain items. Operating earnings are operating income determined in accordance with GAAP adjusted for certain items. Adjustments reflected in these measures are primarily weather, restructuring and transition costs related to the outsourcing contract with IBM, gains and losses on the sale of assets, certain reserve adjustments and other items. See Schedule 1
 
and Schedule 2 of this news release for the reconciliations of net operating earnings and operating earnings, respectively, to GAAP.
NiSource Inc. (NYSE: NI), based in Merrillville, Ind., is a Fortune 500 company engaged in natural gas transmission, storage and distribution, as well as electric generation, transmission and distribution. NiSource operating companies deliver energy to 3.8 million customers located within the high-demand energy corridor stretching from the Gulf Coast through the Midwest to New England. Information about NiSource and its subsidiaries is available via the Internet at . NI-F
About NiSource
www.nisource.com
This news release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Those statements include statements regarding the intent, belief or current expectations of NiSource and its management. Although NiSource believes that its expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, it can give no assurance that its goals will be achieved. Readers are cautioned that the forward-looking statements in this presentation are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks and uncertainties, and that actual results could differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: weather; fluctuations in supply and demand for energy commodities; growth opportunities for NiSource's businesses; increased competition in deregulated energy markets; the success of regulatory and commercial initiatives; dealings with third parties over whom NiSource has no control; the success of NiSource's restructuring of its outsourcing agreement; actual operating experience of NiSource assets; the regulatory process; regulatory and legislative changes; changes in general economic, capital and commodity market conditions; and counter-party credit risk.
Forward-Looking Statements
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2007 (in millions)
 
2006 (in millions)
 
 
2007 (in millions)
 
2006 (in millions)
 
 
 
 
 
 


