FILE:NI/NI-8K-20071212154043.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions.
 
 
 
ITEM 1.01.
ENTRY INTO A MATERIAL DEFINITIVE AGREEMENT
On December 12, 2007, NiSource Corporate Services Company ("NCSC"), a direct subsidiary of NiSource Inc. (the "Company"), amended its Agreement for Business Process and Support Services ("Amended Outsourcing Agreement") with International Business Machines Corporation ("IBM").
The original Outsourcing Agreement was executed on June 20, 2005 and had an initial term of ten years and NCSC had the right to renew it for up to three additional one-year periods.
Under the Amended Outsourcing Agreement, NiSource will reassume responsibility for business support functions including human resource administration, payroll, accounts payable, supply chain (procurement), sales centers, and the majority of meter to cash operations (billing and collections). During 2007, NiSource had already begun to bring certain finance and accounting functions back within the company. These functions include general accounting, fixed assets, and budgeting. In the Customer Contact Centers, interim operational responsibility will be retained by IBM, although NiSource intends to pursue a direct arrangement with Vertex, which currently operates the contact center as a subcontractor for IBM. IBM will retain responsibility for information technology operations. Support functions returning to NiSource will be transitioned in a phased approach throughout 2008.
In August 2006, further implementation of certain information technology systems was delayed due to difficulties encountered with the first wave of new system implementations. The timeline for resuming other Transformation projects is still under consideration, including the evaluation of service providers to support future transformational project work.
These modifications will place NiSource in a position to more effectively manage its employee and administrative expenses, while ensuring delivery of services needed to meet the Company's needs. The delay in the transformation projects and proposed restructuring of the relationship will mean that the cost savings expected under the original Outsourcing Agreement will not be achieved.
NCSC will continue to pay IBM for the amended services under a combination of fixed and variable charges, with the variable charges fluctuating based on the Company's actual need for such services. Based on the currently projected usage of these services, the Company expects to pay approximately $700 million to IBM in service fees and project costs over the remaining 7.5 year term. Under the original agreement, the company expected to pay IBM approximately $1.6 billion in service fees and project costs over ten years.
NiSource will incur additional costs related to its Amended Outsourcing Agreement with IBM. These costs include:
ITEM 9.01.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
     This (this ""), dated as of December 12, 2007, is entered into by and between NiSource Corporate Services Company, a Delaware corporation (""), and International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation (""). This Amendment shall be effective as of December 1, 2007 (the "").
AMENDMENT #4
Amendment
NiSource
IBM
Amendment Effective Date
     A. WHEREAS, NiSource and IBM (a) entered into an Agreement for Business Process and Support Services dated as of June 20, 2005 (the "") and amended the Original Agreement pursuant to Amendments #1 through 26 and (b) have created a conformed version of the Original Agreement that reflects changes to the Original Agreement implemented by Amendments #1 through #21 and Amendments #24 and #26 (provided, however, that the letter agreements as listed in hereto, Change Orders and Request for Service ("") documents are not reflected within the body of such conformed version but remain in full force and effect) (the ")All references after the Amendment Effective Date to the "Agreement" shall mean the Conformed Version of the Agreement, as may be amended. For tracking purposes after the Amendment Effective Date, Amendments #22, #23, and #25 to the Original Agreement shall be renumbered and referred to as Amendments #1, #2 and #3, respectively, and this Amendment shall be hereafter referred to as Amendment #4.
Original Agreement
Attachment J
RFS
Conformed Version of the Agreement"
.
     B. WHEREAS, the Parties engaged in a reassessment of the relationship formed by the Parties under the Agreement, including the identification and evaluation of (a) adjustment, enhancement and remediation activities to address issues raised by the Parties with respect to the delivery of certain Transformation projects and steady state Services under the Agreement and (b) strategies for the best path forward for NiSource and IBM and the resolution of disputes;
     C. WHEREAS, the Parties entered into a Memorandum of Understanding, dated as of October 22, 2007, (the "") pursuant to which the Parties agreed in principle to (a) the key business terms that would be reflected in this Amendment and (b) certain binding terms in order to allow NiSource and IBM to commence (i) transition back activities for the scope to be terminated under this Amendment, including communications and potentially offers of employment to designated IBM personnel and possible engagement of IBM contractors, and (ii) the implementation of the adjustments, improvements and remediation activities relating to the scope to be retained and performed by IBM; and
MOU
 
     D. WHEREAS, the Parties have agreed in this Amendment to formalize the agreement in principle set forth in the MOU, including amending the Agreement to reflect that (a) the Human Resources ("") Service Tower, the Sales Center Service Tower, the Finance and Accounting ("") Service Tower (except for completion and remediation activities relating to Wave 1 of the F&A Transformation as set forth herein and ERS as set forth herein), the Supply Chain Management ("") Service Tower and the Meter-to-Cash ("") Service Tower (except for certain offshore activities as described in below and the Revenue Recovery Services as described in below) shall be terminated and transitioned back to NiSource or its designee, (b) the Services under the Customer Contact Center ("") Service Tower shall be provided by IBM in accordance with the applicable Service Levels at a fixed price on an interim basis until and if NiSource enters into a direct agreement with, or takes assignment of IBM's current agreement with, IBM's current subcontractors Vertex Outsourcing LLC, a subsidiary of Vertex Data Science Limited (""), NCO Financial Systems, Inc. ("") and Network Omni Multi-Lingual Communications ("") for the provision of certain CCC Services and such Services are fully transitioned to Vertex, NCO and Network Omni as the primary providers of such Services (provided that offshore non-call work identified herein is not intended to be transitioned to Vertex and shall continue to be provided by IBM), (c) IBM shall complete the Wave 1 F&A Transformation completion and remediation activities identified by the Parties, (d) IBM shall continue to provide certain offshore activities for MTC after the transition back to NiSource or its designee of the rest of MTC, (e) IBM shall continue to provide certain offshore non-call work for CCC as described in below after the end of the fixed fee period referenced in subsection (b) above at the charges agreed to herein and subject to the terms and conditions of the Agreement, (f) IBM shall continue to provide the Services under the IT Service Tower subject to certain adjustments and enhancements to the IT Services (including the associated Fees) and the implementation of certain remediation activities and (g) certain settlement conditions have been agreed.
HR
F&A
SCM
MTC
Section 
7(d)
Section 
7(e)
CCC
Vertex
NCO
Network Omni
Section 3 (g)
     , in consideration of the foregoing and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Parties hereby agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE
 
Attachment A
IT Terms  Part 1
IT Terms  Part 2
Attachment B
RTS Specific Terms  Part 1
RTS Specific Terms  Part 2
Attachment C            Resolution of Materials and Supplies Disputes
 
Annex 3.2.6 (Service Levels) Annex 3.3.6 (SLA Definitions) Annex 4.1.6 (Resource Units) Schedule 14.6 (Third Party Contracts)
Annex 3.2.1 (Service Levels) Annex 3.3.1 (SLA Definitions) Annex 4.1.1 (IT Resource Units)
 
Schedule 4.2 (Pricing Tables) Schedule 4.3 (Termination Matrix) Schedule 6.1 (Service Categories) Schedule 9.1 (Service Provider Service Delivery Locations)
Schedule 2.6 A (SOW) Annex 3.2.6A (Service Levels) Annex 3.3.6A (SLA Definitions) Annex 4.1.6A (Resource Units) Schedule 14.6A (Third Party Contracts)
Schedule 2.5A (SOW) Annex 2.5.1A (SOX) Annex 3.2.5A (Service Levels) Annex 3.3.5A (SLA Definitions) Annex 4.1.5A (Resource Units) Annex 14.5A (Third Party Contracts)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
with all of the Service Levels applicable to the MTC Terminated Services. As of the Transition Back Completion Date (as defined below) for the MTC Terminated Services, all references to fees and payments for and further performance obligations with respect to the MTC Terminated Services shall be deleted from the Agreement and neither NiSource nor IBM shall have any further obligations to pay for or provide the MTC Services (except for such fees and obligations expressly set forth herein).
 
 
the applicable MSC in (as may be adjusted for ARCs and RRCs in accordance with the Agreement and prorated if the transition back is completed mid-month). During the Sales Centers Service Period, IBM shall provide the Sales Centers Services in accordance with all of the Service Levels applicable to the Sales Centers Services. As of the Transition Back Completion Date (as defined below), all references to fees and payments for and further performance obligations relating to the Sales Centers Services shall be deleted from the Agreement and neither NiSource nor IBM shall have any further obligations to pay for or provide the Sales Centers Services relating thereto (except for such fees and obligations expressly set forth herein).
Schedule 4.2
 
In the event NiSource wishes to obtain any server images upon any expiration or termination of the Agreement, NiSource shall pay to IBM the net book value for server images upon any such expiration or termination.
 
incremental charge to NiSource. For reference purposes, such additional fees are not included in the AS Resource Baselines as of the Amendment Effective Date.
 
 
purposes): (i) Call Center IVR & Web Support, (ii) Offshore Call Center & Meter to Cash and (iii) T&E (or ERS).
 
specified by NiSource. IBM shall waive any restrictive or other covenants or requirements relating to or imposed on such employees or contractors to the extent the same would interfere with such release and/or hiring or engagement or restrict or limit the actions of any such individual as an employee or contractor of NiSource.
To the extent any of the provisions herein are in conflict with or contradict the terms of the Agreement, (a) all such terms shall be interpreted where possible so as to be consistent with one another, and if such interpretation is not possible, then (b) the terms contained herein shall prevail. Subject to the foregoing, these terms are intended to be additive not in lieu of the terms of the Agreement. If the Agreement has additional terms, then those terms shall be applicable as well. For the avoidance of doubt, IBM shall not make any changes to the invoicing process (including the state by state break downs) with respect to any of the Fees to be charged to NiSource.
 
 
or agreement or instrument was transmitted or communicated through the use of a facsimile machine or as an attachment to an electronic mail message as a defense to the formation of a contract and each such Party forever waives any such defense. A facsimile signature or electronically scanned copy of a signature shall constitute and shall be deemed to be sufficient evidence of a Party's execution of this Amendment, without necessity of further proof. Each such copy shall be deemed an original, and it shall not be necessary in making proof of this Amendment to produce or account for more than one such counterpart.
 
Services have been fully transitioned back to NiSource or its designee (as agreed to by NiSource). Upon reasonable notice to IBM, NiSource may accelerate a transition back period and IBM shall transition back the affected Services within the accelerated time frame, provided that it is reasonable.
 
     the Parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be signed by their duly authorized representatives, as of the date(s) set forth below.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,


