FILE:NI/NI-8K-20070723172326.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
     On July 23, 2007, Peter McCausland, a director of NiSource Inc. (the "Company"), notified the Company that he has decided to resign from the board of directors of the Company effective as of July 23, 2007.
     A copy of the press release announcing Mr. McCausland's resignation is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
(d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX

 
July 23, 2007
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
MERRILLVILLE, Ind.  The NiSource Inc. (NYSE: NI) board of directors today announced that Peter McCausland is stepping down from his position as a director effective immediately.
McCausland cited increasing business and personal commitments in announcing his resignation from the board. McCausland is chairman of the board and chief executive officer of Airgas, Inc., of Radnor, Pa., and a director of the Vaspar Corporation, the International Oxygen Manufacturers Association, Inc., the Fox Chase Cancer Center, and the Independence Seaport Museum. He had been a NiSource director since February 2006.
"I have greatly enjoyed my association with NiSource, and will certainly miss working with my fellow board members and the NiSource management team," McCausland said. "I have great confidence in NiSource's ongoing business strategy and will watch with interest the company's continued progress."
"On behalf of the NiSource board, I express our deep appreciation for Peter's contributions as a member of our ranks," said Ian M. Roland, chairman of the NiSource board. "While his business knowledge and leadership perspective will be greatly missed, we certainly respect his desire to focus on other important personal and business priorities. We wish him well in his future pursuits."
Continuing members of the NiSource board include Steven C. Beering, Dennis E. Foster, Marty R. Kitrell, W. Lee Nutter, Steven R. McCracken, Ian M. Rolland, NiSource CEO and President Robert C. Skaggs, Jr., Richard L. Thompson, Carolyn Y. Woo, and Roger A. Young.
NiSource Inc. (NYSE: NI), based in Merrillville, Ind., is a Fortune 500 company engaged in natural gas transmission, storage and distribution, as well as electric generation, transmission and distribution. NiSource operating companies deliver energy to 3.8 million customers located within the high-demand energy corridor stretching from the Gulf Coast through the Midwest to New England. Information about NiSource and its subsidiaries is available via the Internet at . NI-F
About NiSource
www.nisource.com


