FILE:NI/NI-8K-20070503073039.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions.
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
On May 3, 2007, NiSource Inc. (the "Company") reported its financial results for the year ended March 31, 2007. The Company's press release, dated May 3, 2007, is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
ITEM 9.01.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(d) Exhibits
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX

 
Exhibit 99.1
801 E. 86th Avenue Merrillville, IN 46410
May 3, 2007
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
MERRILLVILLE, Ind.  NiSource Inc. (NYSE: NI) today announced net operating earnings (non-GAAP) of $208 million, or 76 cents per share, for the three months ended March 31, 2007, an increase from $204 million, or 75 cents per share, for the first quarter of 2006 (all per-share amounts are basic). Operating earnings (non-GAAP) were $432.7 million for the first three months of 2007, up from $416.3 million in 2006.
First quarter net operating earnings, compared with the year-ago period, were positively affected by higher earnings from NiSource's Gas Distribution business and the first full quarter of financial improvements from an agreement between NiSource's Whiting Clean Energy unit and BP. These positive impacts were partially offset by increases in employee, administrative and maintenance expenses and a higher effective tax rate compared with the prior period.
Continued Strong Results from Four-Part Business Plan
"NiSource's balanced, four-part business plan continues to deliver solid results from our low-risk portfolio of regulated assets," President and Chief Executive Officer Robert C. Skaggs, Jr. said. Expansion and commercial growth in the natural gas pipeline and storage business, regulatory and commercial initiatives, financial management, and process and expense management are the foundation of NiSource's four-part plan.
"Our operating units are continuing to deliver strong performance to position NiSource for long-term, sustainable growth," Skaggs said. "As we move forward, our team remains focused on the fundamental components of our four-part plan."
 
NiSource reports higher first-quarter earnings
Page 2
Path Forward' Strategic and Financial Review Advances
In addition to its fundamental business plan, Skaggs noted that NiSource is nearing completion of a comprehensive financial and strategic review of NiSource's entire portfolio of businesses.
Conducted in close collaboration with the NiSource Board of Directors, the strategic and financial review has considered and analyzed a broad spectrum of alternatives for unlocking the underlying value of NiSource's asset base, strengthening the company's financial profile and positioning it for long term, sustainable growth. "We remain committed to these objectives, and expect to provide an update on the results of our review by the end of the month," Skaggs said.
Overview of first-quarter operating earnings (non-GAAP) performance by business segment:
Gas Distribution Operations
Operating earnings for NiSource's Gas Distribution Operations increased by $6.9 million, to $258.2 million for the first quarter of 2007.
The improved Gas Distribution earnings were driven by an increase in net revenues of $15.8 million, excluding the impact of regulatory trackers. This increased revenue was primarily attributable to commercial and industrial sales and margin increases, regulatory initiatives, and improved residential and commercial customer growth compared to the prior-year period.
Skaggs noted that weather-normalized customer usage declines during the quarter for the Gas Distribution segment were consistent with the company's expectations.
"First quarter results are generally in line with our belief that declines in customer demand experienced during 2006 were a response to higher market prices for natural gas, particularly in the aftermath of the 2005 hurricane season," Skaggs said. "As prices decreased during the later part of 2006, both usage erosion and customer attrition levels began to moderate."
The Gas Distribution segment also continued to capitalize on short-term market opportunities and use of its extensive supply and storage portfolio to increase revenues. These revenues are shared with customers under various regulatory mechanisms.
Excluding expenses that are recovered through regulatory trackers, operating expenses for the Gas Distribution segment were $8.9 million higher for the quarter compared with the year-ago period, primarily due to higher employee and administrative expenses.
 
NiSource reports higher first-quarter earnings
Page 3
NiSource's utilities continued to advance a full agenda of regulatory initiatives during the quarter, including a February rate case filing by Columbia Gas of Kentucky (CKY). The filing proposes CKY's first base rate increase since 1996 and pursues a change in rate structure to help mitigate the impact of customer conservation. The filing also proposes an accelerated main replacement program to accompany the replacement of aging gas lines and enhance the overall safety and reliability of its gas distribution system over the next 20 years.
In addition, rate case planning activities are in full swing at Bay State Gas Company and Columbia Gas of Pennsylvania, with filings anticipated in mid-2007 and early 2008, respectively. Also, at Columbia Gas of Ohio, stakeholder meetings have been initiated in an effort to meet the respective needs of all parties in shaping the future regulatory, commercial and investment model for Columbia Gas of Ohio. "We are making significant forward movement on regulatory initiatives across our distribution company markets," Skaggs said. "Whether through full rate case filings or other approaches, our goal is to cultivate win-win strategies that benefit all stakeholders as we address changing customer conservation patterns, develop more contemporary pricing structures, and embark on long-term investment programs to enhance our infrastructure and expand our customer base."
Gas Transmission and Storage Operations
Operating earnings for Gas Transmission and Storage Operations were $107.7 million during the first quarter of 2007, compared to $111.7 million for the first quarter of 2006.
Higher property insurance premiums in the wake of 2005's Gulf Coast hurricanes, along with increased employee, administrative and maintenance expenses, contributed to a $4 million decrease in Gas Transmission and Storage (GT&S) operating earnings.
Net revenues from the segment were slightly higher than the prior period, as the GT&S team continued to pursue a two-pronged growth strategy that focuses on optimization of NiSource's strategically located natural gas pipeline and storage system, combined with aggressive physical expansion of its pipeline and storage network.
"While stabilization in the natural gas market did moderate our optimization revenues somewhat during the first quarter, demand and commodity revenues were up in our GT&S business compared to last year," Skaggs noted. "Our team continues to pursue a range of potential system expansions driven by continuing core demand growth in Midwest, mid-Atlantic and East Coast markets." Columbia Gulf is also pursuing a number of projects designed to give its customers access to a greater number of onshore supply basins and Gulf Coast markets.
 
NiSource reports higher first-quarter earnings
Page 4
On April 1, one of the mid-Atlantic expansion projects began operations. Hardy Storage Company LLC, the owner of a new underground gas storage field in West Virginia, started receiving natural gas from customers for injection into the Hardy field. The project, a joint effort between subsidiaries of Columbia Gas Transmission and Piedmont Natural Gas, will ultimately deliver 176,000 dekatherms (Dth) per day of new firm storage services. Those services are fully subscribed under 15-year contracts with four mid-Atlantic utilities. Columbia Gas Transmission is expanding its transmission system to accommodate the new Hardy Storage Project volumes.
Columbia Gas Transmission is also moving forward with its Eastern Market Expansion project, which, like Hardy Storage, is a combined storage and transportation project designed to meet core market growth in the Mid-Atlantic region. Later today, Columbia Gas Transmission will file its certificate application for the 2009 project with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC).
In March, Columbia Gulf Transmission held a successful open season to gauge customer interest in providing increased access to southern Louisiana markets. With planned in-service dates in the third and fourth quarters, Columbia Gulf will make firm deliveries in excess of 300,000 Dth per day to the Henry Hub and to Transcontinental Gas Pipeline at two expanded points of interconnection.
Meanwhile, the Millennium Pipeline remains on track to begin construction later this year. Millennium, which is anchored by long-term agreements with Consolidated Edison and KeySpan, received FERC certificate approval in the fourth quarter of 2006 and has a targeted in-service date of November 2008. Columbia Gas Transmission is a 47.5 percent owner of Millennium, with units of KeySpan and DTE Energy as the other partners.
Electric Operations
NiSource's electric business reported operating earnings of $73.3 million for the quarter, compared with $71.2 million during the first quarter a year ago. A $6.9 million increase in net revenues resulted from increased residential volumes, lower unrecoverable MISO costs, increased wholesale margins, and customer growth partially offset by decreased industrial sales and timing of revenue credits. As of August 2006, Northern Indiana Public Service Company (NIPSCO) began deferring MISO costs for future recovery.
The increase in net revenues was partially offset by a $4.8 million increase in operating expenses primarily due to higher electric generation and maintenance expenses.
"The electric segment had a solid first quarter," Skaggs said. "In addition to revenue increases from usage and customer growth, we continue to see steady growth in margins in our wholesale electric market."
 
NiSource reports higher first-quarter earnings
Page 5
Other Operations
Other Operations reported an operating earnings loss of $3.2 million for the first quarter of 2007, compared with an operating earnings loss of $11.5 million in the first quarter of 2006.
The $8.3 million improvement primarily resulted from lower losses at the Whiting Clean Energy facility and higher gas marketing margins. As previously announced, NiSource unit Whiting Clean Energy (WCE) and BP signed a definitive agreement in late 2006 redefining terms under which WCE provides steam to BP for its oil refining process. The improved results from this agreement, reflected in the first quarter results, are expected to continue through the remainder of 2007.
"As expected, the terms of our Whiting Clean Energy agreement have enabled the plant to operate more competitively," Skaggs noted. "This should help drive improved results from our Other Operations segment, which has been producing negative results for a number of years."
Corporate
Corporate reported an operating earnings loss of $3.3 million versus an operating earnings loss of $6.4 million in the comparable 2006 period. The decreased loss was primarily the result of lower consulting and outside service costs.
Other Items
Interest expense increased by $3.3 million due to higher short-term interest rates. Income taxes on net operating earnings of $123.3 million were $10.8 million higher than last year. The increase resulted from higher pre-tax earnings and a higher effective tax rate. The effective tax rate for the first quarter of 2007 is 37.2%. Last year's effective tax rate of 35.5% was favorably impacted by state deferred income tax adjustments recorded during the first quarter of 2006.
Income from Continuing Operations (GAAP)
On a GAAP basis, income from continuing operations for the first quarter of 2007 was $209.1 million, or 76 cents per share, compared with $173 million, or 63 cents per share, for the year-ago period. The 2006 results were negatively affected by record-setting warm winter weather conditions. For a reconciliation of net operating earnings (non-GAAP) to income from continuing operations (GAAP), see Schedule 1 of this news release.
 
NiSource reports higher first-quarter earnings
Page 6
Definition of non-GAAP measures and reconciliation of earnings guidance to GAAP
NiSource focuses on net operating earnings and operating earnings, which are both non-GAAP measures, because management believes these measures better represent the fundamental earnings strength and performance of the company. NiSource uses these measures internally for budgeting, for reporting to the board of directors, and for purposes of determining the payout under NiSource's annual incentive compensation plan for its employees.
Net operating earnings are a non-GAAP financial measure that NiSource defines as income from continuing operations determined in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) adjusted for certain items. Operating earnings are operating income determined in accordance with GAAP adjusted for certain items. Adjustments reflected in these measures are primarily weather, restructuring and transition costs related to the outsourcing contract with IBM, gains and losses on the sale of assets, certain reserve adjustments and other items. See Schedule 1 and Schedule 2 of this news release for the reconciliations of net operating earnings and operating earnings, respectively, to GAAP.
Conference call to be held this morning (May 3)
NiSource will host an analyst conference call at 9:00 a.m. EDT on Thursday, May 3, 2007, to further discuss the company's first-quarter 2007 results. All interested parties may hear the conference call live by logging on to the NiSource Web site at .
www.nisource.com
NiSource Inc. (NYSE: NI), based in Merrillville, Ind., is a Fortune 500 company engaged in natural gas transmission, storage and distribution, as well as electric generation, transmission and distribution. NiSource operating companies deliver energy to 3.8 million customers located within the high-demand energy corridor stretching from the Gulf Coast through the Midwest to New England. Information about NiSource and its subsidiaries is available via the Internet at . NI-F
About NiSource
www.nisource.com
This news release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Those statements include statements regarding the intent, belief or current expectations of NiSource and its management. Although NiSource believes that its expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, it can give no assurance that its goals will be achieved. Readers are cautioned that the forward-looking statements in this presentation are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks and uncertainties, and that actual results could differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: weather; fluctuations in supply and demand for energy commodities; growth opportunities for NiSource's businesses; increased competition in deregulated energy markets; the success of regulatory and commercial initiatives; dealings with third parties over whom NiSource has no control; the effectiveness of NiSource's outsourcing initiative; actual operating experience of NiSource assets; the regulatory process; regulatory and legislative changes; changes in general economic, capital and commodity market conditions; and counter-party credit risk.
Forward-Looking Statements
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


