FILE:NI/NI-8K-20080604111314.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions.
 
 
Table of Contents
     On June 2, 2008, NiSource Inc. (the "Company") announced that Stephen P. Smith, age 47, will join the company as its new Executive Vice President on June 1, 2008 and will assume the role of Chief Financial Officer, effective as of August 4, 2008. Mr. Smith's responsibilities will include all NiSource Corporate Finance, Treasury, Accounting, Corporate Tax, Financial Planning and Corporate Planning functions. Mr. Smith will succeed the Company's current Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Michael W. O'Donnell, who announced in May his plan to retire from the Company as Chief Financial Officer before the end of 2008.
     Since 2007, Mr. Smith has served as Senior Vice President of Shared Services for American Electric Power Co. ("AEP"), where he had responsibilities for Human Resources, Information Technology/Telecommunications and Business Logistics. From 2003 to 2007, Mr. Smith served as Senior Vice President and Treasurer for AEP, overseeing Accounting, Budgeting, Planning, Risk Management, Strategy, Tax and Treasury functions. Before joining AEP, Smith served in a number of finance and executive leadership roles at the Company and Columbia Energy Group ("Columbia"), culminating in the role of President and Chief Operating Officer of NiSource Corporate Services Company. Prior to the Company's merger with Columbia, Mr. Smith served as Senior Vice President and Deputy Chief Financial Officer for Columbia, where he had responsibility for Accounting, Planning, Risk Management, Tax and Treasury functions. Prior to that role, Mr. Smith served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for Columbia Gas Transmission Corporation, a subsidiary of Columbia.
     The Company has agreed to pay Mr. Smith a base salary of $500,000 per year and a signing bonus of $150,000. Mr. Smith will participate in the Company's annual incentive plan, with a target bonus opportunity for 2008 of $325,000 (or 65% of annual base salary), which amount will be prorated based on the number of months in the performance period after June 1, 2008. In 2009 and 2010, Mr. Smith will be guaranteed an annual incentive opportunity equal to not less than the target amount. For the first five months of 2011, Mr. Smith is guaranteed a bonus opportunity equal to not less than 5/12 of the target amount under the annual incentive plan. As additional compensation for the loss of a portion of Mr. Smith's long term incentive award from his prior employer, Mr. Smith is guaranteed a payment each year equal to $135,000 to be paid on December 31 of 2008, 2009 and 2010. Under his severance arrangement with the Company, these amounts will become payable within 30 days of Mr. Smith being terminated by the Company without cause or Mr. Smith terminating his employment for good reason.
st
     Subject to approval by the Officer Nomination and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors and the Company's Board of Directors, the Company has agreed to grant to Mr. Smith, (i) each fiscal year beginning after June 1, 2008, to the extent the Company grants awards to other executives under the Company's Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "LTIP"), an LTIP award with a value equal to $600,000, and (ii) a contingent stock award under the LTIP (the "Initial Contingent Stock Award") determined by dividing $600,000 by the fair market value of the Company's common stock on the date of the grant which will vest, solely on the passage of time, in one-third increments on December 31, 2008, 2009 and 2010.
     In the event the Company terminates Mr. Smith's employment for any reason other than "cause" or if Mr. Smith terminates his employment for "good reason," Mr. Smith will be entitled to (i) a lump-sum payment equal to his annual salary as then in effect, (ii) a lump-sum payment equal to his prorated annual incentive opportunity at the "target" level, (iii) a lump-sum payment equal to 130% of the costs of continuation coverage premiums under the Company's health and welfare plans, (iv) a payment equal to the amount of any of the Initial Contingent Stock Award that has not yet vested, and (v) reasonable outplacement services. Mr. Smith will be eligible to participate in all of the Company's benefit plans, including any health, life and disability insurance plans, qualified and nonqualified retirement and pensions plans, or any other plan or benefit generally afforded to similarly situated executives of the Company. General descriptions of these plans can be found in the Company's definitive proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 3, 2008.
Table of Contents
     A copy of the Company's press release is attached to this Report as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference to this Item 5.02.
ITEM 9.01
Financial Statement and Exhibits.
Table of Contents
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
June 2, 2008
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
NiSource Inc. (NYSE: NI) today announced that joined the company as its new Executive Vice President on June 1 and will assume the role of Chief Financial Officer in early August, 2008. Smith's responsibilities will include all NiSource Corporate Finance, Treasury, Accounting, Corporate Tax, Financial Planning and Corporate Planning functions.
MERRILLVILLE, Ind. 
Stephen P. Smith
"We are very pleased that Steve Smith will be rejoining NiSource in the role of Chief Financial Officer," said , Chairman of the Board of Directors of NiSource. "Steve not only is a senior financial executive with extensive energy industry experience, but he also has a proven leadership track record across a broad range of business functions. Steve will be a fine addition to the strong management team Bob Skaggs has assembled at NiSource."
Ian Rolland
NiSource President and CEO added, "Steve is joining NiSource at a pivotal point in our company's history. Clearly, our ability to execute on our ambitious investment driven growth plan is premised on maintaining a strong financial footing and having continued access to competitively priced capital. Working with our business unit leaders and the other members of the NiSource senior executive team, Steve will play a key leadership role as we execute our Path Forward strategy."
Robert C. Skaggs, Jr.
On May 13, 2008, NiSource Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer announced his plan to retire from the company in 2009 and to step down from his CFO role later this year. Effective with Steve Smith assuming the CFO position in August, O'Donnell will serve in an executive vice president role reporting to Skaggs, focusing on a number of ongoing projects and business activities for NiSource.
Michael W. O'Donnell
 
NiSource Inc Page 2 of 2
Smith most recently served as senior vice president of Shared Services for American Electric Power Co., one of the nation's largest electric utilities, where he had responsibility for Business Logistics, Human Resources, Information Technology and Telecommunications. From 2003 to 2007, he was senior vice president and treasurer for AEP, overseeing Accounting, Budgeting, Planning, Risk Management, Strategy, Tax and Treasury functions.
Before joining AEP, Smith served in a progression of finance and executive leadership roles at Columbia Energy Group and NiSource, culminating in the role of president and chief operating officer of NiSource Corporate Services Co. In that role, he managed NiSource's shared services functions and oversaw the integration of corporate functions following the NiSource-Columbia Energy Group merger. Prior to the merger, Smith was senior vice president and deputy chief financial officer for Columbia Energy Group, where he had responsibility for Accounting, Planning, Risk Management, Tax and Treasury functions. Prior to that role, Smith served as senior vice president and chief financial officer for Columbia Gas Transmission Corp.
Smith earned a Master of Business Administration degree from the University Of Chicago Graduate School Of Business and a Bachelor of Science degree in Petroleum Engineering from the Colorado School of Mines. He also serves as a Director and Audit Committee member of Natural Resource Partners, L. P. a publicly traded master limited partnership engaged in owning and managing coal properties in Appalachia, the Illinois Basin and the Powder River Basin regions of the United States.
About NiSource
NiSource Inc. (NYSE: NI), based in Merrillville, Ind., is a Fortune 500 company engaged in natural gas transmission, storage and distribution, as well as electric generation, transmission and distribution. NiSource operating companies deliver energy to 3.8 million customers located within the high-demand energy corridor stretching from the Gulf Coast through the Midwest to New England. Information about NiSource and its subsidiaries is available via the Internet at . NI-F
www.nisource.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Those statements include statements regarding the intent, belief or current expectations of NiSource and its management. Although NiSource believes that its expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, it can give no assurance that its goals will be achieved. Readers are cautioned that the forward-looking statements in this presentation are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks and uncertainties, and that actual results could differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: weather; fluctuations in supply and demand for energy commodities; growth opportunities for NiSource's businesses; increased competition in deregulated energy markets; the success of regulatory and commercial initiatives; dealings with third parties over whom NiSource has no control; the success of NiSource's restructuring of its outsourcing agreement; actual operating experience of NiSource assets; the regulatory process; regulatory and legislative changes; changes in general economic, capital and commodity market conditions; and counter-party credit risk.


