FILE:NI/NI-8K-20081104070644.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions.
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
On November 4, 2008, NiSource Inc. (the "Company") reported its financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2008. The Company's press release, dated November 4, 2008, is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
 
ITEM 9.01.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(d) Exhibits
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
November 4, 2008
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
- NiSource Inc. (NYSE: NI) today announced net operating earnings of $9.3 million, or 3 cents per share, from continuing operations (non-GAAP) for the three months ended Sept. 30, 2008, compared to net operating earnings of $18.9 million, or 7 cents per share, for the same period in 2007.
MERRILLVILLE, Ind.
On a GAAP basis, NiSource reported income from continuing operations for the three months ended Sept. 30, 2008, of $32.6 million, or 12 cents per share, compared with $7.9 million, or 3 cents per share, in the same period a year ago. Operating income was $107.9 million for the third quarter of 2008, compared with $109.5 million in the year-ago period.
During the quarter, net operating earnings were affected by higher operating expenses largely related to NiSource's infrastructure expansion and enhancement strategies, increased electric generation and non-recoverable purchased power expense, as well as decreased optimization revenues caused by lower gas market volatility and less liquidity in those short-term markets. These impacts were partially offset by lower interest expense and income taxes.
"As we have noted on a number of occasions, 2008 represents an important year for NiSource as we move forward with building a platform for delivering long-term, sustainable earnings growth," NiSource President and Chief Executive Officer Robert C. Skaggs, Jr. said. "During the third quarter, despite challenging and potentially distracting conditions in business and financial markets, our teams maintained their focus and executed on a number of bellwether initiatives."
Skaggs noted that, consistent with the company's expectations, NiSource remains on track to achieve 2008 financial results that are within the lower end of the range of its $1.25 to $1.35 per share net operating earnings (non-GAAP) outlook.
 
Skaggs also expressed confidence with respect to the adequacy of NiSource's liquidity position. The company recently supplemented its $1.5 billion revolving credit facility (which extends into 2011) with a new, six-month $500 million credit facility. This facility helps ensure ample liquidity to accommodate the company's seasonal cash flow requirements, such as the purchase of natural gas supplies to meet customer needs as well as to provide for short-term payment requirements related to the prospective settlement of the Tawney class action lawsuit, discussed later in this release.
"We believe we are well positioned with respect to our liquidity situation," Skaggs said. "Company management and our Board of Directors will continue to closely monitor events in the credit markets, as well as overall economic conditions, to ensure that NiSource's financial flexibility is maintained."
Skaggs highlighted a number of recent accomplishments in each of NiSource's business segments that demonstrate the company's continued execution of its business strategy.
Rate Cases, Infrastructure Improvements Progress at Gas Distribution
NiSource's Gas Distribution segment is continuing to move forward with infrastructure-driven investment programs synchronized with thoughtful and collaborative regulatory initiatives.
"Our Gas Distribution team is developing and executing on thoughtful regulatory initiatives, closely integrated with long-term infrastructure improvement and replacement strategies," Skaggs said. "NiSource is delivering on its commitment to work collaboratively with our stakeholders, invest in system service reliability, and synchronize those investments with regulatory initiatives."
 
NIPSCO Files Landmark Electric Rate Case; Adds Wind Power to Portfolio
"The NIPSCO team has developed and submitted a rate case that strikes a balance between the company's need to invest in system improvements and providing reasonable rate and tariff adjustments to all customer groups," Skaggs said. "The review of this case is expected to take 12 to 18 months, during which time our team will be engaged with a wide range of stakeholders in a collaborative fashion that is central to our business approach."
In addition to adding wind-generated electric power, NIPSCO will be advancing a Demand Side Management program designed to encourage customers to use electricity more wisely and offer incentives to customers to reduce their electric usage during peak hours.
Finally, on Oct. 24, NIPSCO issued two requests for proposals to secure new sources of electric power beginning in 2011. "NIPSCO is committed to exploring all available energy options in order to meet the needs of its customers," Skaggs said. "These efforts are a key step in NIPSCO's integrated power supply planning process."
Growth Projects Advance at Gas Transmission & Storage
At NiSource's Gas Transmission and Storage (GT&S) segment, progress continued on a range of growth projects designed to capitalize on the company's strategically located assets, with access to some of the nation's highest value natural gas production and market areas.
 
"The Appalachian Basin, specifically in the Marcellus Shale area, is one of the fastest growing natural gas production regions in the United States," Skaggs said. "NiSource's Gas Transmission & Storage units are well positioned to meet producers' need to move their gas out of the basin. Our team is focused on providing new solutions for accessing these supplies and delivering natural gas to important energy markets."
 
Resolution of Tawney Litigation
On Oct. 24, a West Virginia court granted preliminary approval of the establishment of a $380 million settlement fund to resolve the Tawney class action litigation, which involves natural gas royalty claims asserted against Columbia Natural Resources, a former NiSource subsidiary, for which NiSource retained primary financial responsibility. NiSource's share of the settlement, which is subject to final court approval following a Nov. 22, fairness hearing, is up to $338.8 million.
"We are pleased to have reached a settlement of this litigation and to be in a position to remove the uncertainty associated with this matter going forward," Skaggs said. "We are hopeful the settlement will receive final approval during the fourth quarter."
Third Quarter 2008 Operating Earnings  Segment Results (non-GAAP)
NiSource's consolidated third-quarter 2008 operating earnings (non-GAAP) were $104.1 million, compared to $129.0 million for the same period in 2007. Refer to Schedule 2 for the items included in 2008 and 2007 GAAP operating income but excluded from operating earnings.
Operating earnings for NiSource's business segments for the quarter ended Sept. 30, 2008, are discussed below.
reported an operating loss of $58.1 million versus an operating loss of $39.6 million in the third quarter of 2007. The increase in the loss resulted primarily from increased operating expenses which were $16.3 million higher than the prior year. The increase in operating expenses was mainly due to higher employee and administrative expenses, uncollectible accounts, outside service costs and regulatory trackers which are offset in revenue. Net revenues were $2.2 million lower versus the same period last year resulting from reduced revenues from a Stipulation entered into among Columbia of Ohio and its regulatory stakeholders in late 2007 partially offset by an increase in regulatory trackers which are offset in operating expense.
Gas Distribution Operations
reported operating earnings of $80.3 million versus operating earnings of $75.5 million in the third quarter of 2007. Increases in net revenues of $1.8 million were due to increased subscriptions for firm transportation services related to new interconnects along the Columbia Gulf pipeline system, deliveries from the Hardy Storage field and incremental demand revenues on the Columbia Gas Transmission pipeline system. These increases were partially offset by decreased revenues from shorter term transportation and storage services.
Gas Transmission and Storage Operations
Operating expenses decreased by $2.2 million for the quarter mainly due to lower outside service costs. Equity earnings increased by $0.8 million due to higher earnings on Millennium Pipeline and Hardy Storage.
 
reported operating earnings of $82.2 million versus operating earnings of $102.0 million from the same quarter last year. Operating expenses increased by $12.1 million due mostly to higher electric generation and maintenance expenses, including expense associated with the Sugar Creek facility, and higher depreciation costs. Net revenues decreased by $7.7 million compared to the same quarter last year primarily due to non-recoverable purchased power costs and lower residential and commercial volumes and margins. These decreases were partially offset by incremental revenues from the new Sugar Creek plant. The 2007 results were impacted by the settlement relating to power purchased by NIPSCO which reduced operating earnings by $16.2 million partially offset by higher wholesale margins of $13.9 million that resulted from warmer than normal weather and favorable market conditions.
Electric Operations
reported operating earnings of $0.7 million in the third quarter of 2008, compared with an operating loss of $0.2 million in the prior year period due to increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing activities.
Other Operations
Other Items
Interest expense decreased by $6.4 million in the third quarter of 2008 compared to the same period last year due to lower short-term interest rates and the retirement late in 2007 of high-cost debt associated with the Whiting Clean Energy (WCE) facility.
Nine Month Period 2008 Operating Earnings  Segment Results (non-GAAP)
NiSource's consolidated operating earnings (non-GAAP) for the nine months ended Sept. 30, 2008, were $620.3 million, compared to $701.2 million for the same period in 2007. Refer to Schedule 2 for the items included in 2008 and 2007 GAAP operating income but excluded from operating earnings.
Operating earnings for NiSource's business segments for the nine months ended Sept. 30, 2008 are discussed below.
reported operating earnings of $193.1 million compared to $220.4 million reported for the first nine months of 2007. Net revenues increased $11.9 million, primarily attributable to increased residential volumes and regulatory initiatives, partially offset by reduced revenues as a result of the Stipulation entered into among Columbia of Ohio and its regulatory stakeholders in late 2007. Operating expenses were $39.2 million higher than the comparable period due to increases in employee and administrative costs, uncollectible accounts, outside service costs, depreciation costs and other taxes.
Gas Distribution Operations
reported operating earnings of $260.2 million versus operating earnings of $257.4 million in the first nine months of 2007. The increase resulted primarily from higher net revenues partially offset by increased operating expenses. Higher net revenues of $10.2 million were mainly from firm capacity reservation fees. These increases in net revenues from firm capacity reservation fees were the result of higher Columbia Gas Transmission transportation deliveries from the Hardy Storage field and incremental demand revenues from new interconnects along the Columbia Gulf and Columbia Gas Transmission pipeline systems. Operating expenses increased by $6.6 million due primarily to higher employee and administrative
Gas Transmission and Storage Operations
 
expenses. Equity earnings decreased by $0.8 million due to lower earnings from Millennium Pipeline partially offset by increased earnings from Hardy Storage, which was partially in service in 2007.
reported operating earnings of $172.3 million for the first nine months of 2008, compared with $237.1 million for the prior year period. Lower net revenues and higher operating expenses both contributed to the lower operating earnings. Net revenues decreased by $22.4 million compared to the same period last year due to non-recoverable purchased power and MISO costs and lower residential and commercial volumes and margins. These decreases were partially offset by incremental revenues from the new Sugar Creek plant and increased industrial net revenues. Last year's results were impacted by the settlement relating to power purchased by NIPSCO which reduced operating earnings by $16.2 million partially offset by higher wholesale margins of $12.8 million that resulted from warmer than normal weather and favorable market conditions, both reflected in the results for the third quarter ended Sept. 30, 2007.
Electric Operations
Operating expenses increased by $42.4 million due to higher employee and administrative costs, electric generation and maintenance expenses, including expense associated with the Sugar Creek facility, and higher depreciation costs. The higher depreciation costs included an $8.3 million adjustment recorded by NIPSCO during the second quarter of this year. This non-cash adjustment will not have a material impact on depreciation charges in future periods.
reported operating earnings of $1.0 million in the first nine months of 2008, versus an operating loss of $0.2 million in the first nine months of 2007. The improvement resulted from higher net revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing activities. These operating earnings results no longer include earnings associated with the WCE facility which was sold to BPAE on June 30. Earnings associated with WCE's operations have been reclassified to discontinued operations for the current and comparable periods. Other Operations primarily include commercial and industrial gas marketing activities.
Other Operations
Other Items
Interest expense decreased by $24.7 million due to lower short-term interest rates and credit facility fees and the retirement late in 2007 of high-cost debt associated with the WCE facility. The effective tax rate of net operating earnings for 2008 is 36.6% compared to last year's rate of 37.0%.
Income from Continuing Operations (GAAP)
On a GAAP basis, NiSource reported income from continuing operations for the three months ended Sept. 30, 2008, of $32.6 million, or 12 cents per share, compared with $7.9 million, or 3 cents per share, in the same period a year ago. Operating income was $107.9 million for the third quarter of 2008, compared with $109.5 million in the year-ago period.
The increase in income from continuing operations resulted primarily from (i) the sale of an equity interest in JOF Transportation Company to Lehigh Service Corporation on Aug. 27, 2008, for a pre-tax gain of $16.7 million; and (ii) a $13.5 million reduction in NiSource's deferred income tax liability and income tax expense which were recorded in the third quarter as a result of tax legislation enacted in Massachusetts in July 2008.
On a GAAP basis, NiSource reported income from continuing operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2008, of $242.8 million, or 89 cents per share, compared with $243.4 million, or 89 cents per share last year. Operating income was $619.0 million for the first nine months of 2008 versus $684.0 million in the year-ago period.
 
Refer to Schedule 1 for a complete list of the items included in 2008 and 2007 GAAP income from Continuing Operations but excluded from net operating earnings.
Discontinued Operations
In the first quarter of 2008, NiSource began accounting for the operations of Northern Utilities, Granite State Gas and Whiting Clean Energy as discontinued operations. For the nine months ended Sept. 30, 2008, NiSource recorded an estimated after-tax loss of $104.3 million (38 cents per share) for the disposition of these operations. All results of operations for these businesses are classified as net income from discontinued operations. In the second quarter of 2008, NiSource recorded an additional accrual related to the Tawney lawsuit in West Virginia. This adjustment to the reserve was based on the May 22 denial of a petition by the defendants (including NiSource) for review of the case by the West Virginia Supreme Court of Appeals.
About NiSource
NiSource Inc. (NYSE: NI), based in Merrillville, Ind., is a Fortune 500 company engaged in natural gas transmission, storage and distribution, as well as electric generation, transmission and distribution. NiSource operating companies deliver energy to 3.8 million customers located within the high-demand energy corridor stretching from the Gulf Coast through the Midwest to New England. Information about NiSource and its subsidiaries is available via the Internet at . NI-F
www.nisource.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Those statements include statements regarding the intent, belief or current expectations of NiSource and its management. Although NiSource believes that its expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, it can give no assurance that its goals will be achieved. Readers are cautioned that the forward-looking statements in this presentation are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks and uncertainties, and that actual results could differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: weather; fluctuations in supply and demand for energy commodities; growth opportunities for NiSource's businesses; increased competition in deregulated energy markets; the success of regulatory and commercial initiatives; dealings with third parties over whom NiSource has no control; the success of NiSource's restructuring of its outsourcing agreement; actual operating experience of NiSource assets; the regulatory process; regulatory and legislative changes; changes in general economic, capital and commodity market conditions; and counter-party credit risk. NiSource expressly disclaims a duty to update any of the forward-looking statements contained in this release.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2008 (in millions)
2007 (in millions)
 
\
2008 (in millions)
2007 (in millions)
 
 
 
 
 


