FILE:NI/NI-8K-20090204070238.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions.
 
ITEM 2.02.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
On February 4, 2009, NiSource Inc. (the "Company") reported its financial results for the year ended December 31, 2008. The Company's press release, dated February 4, 2009, is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
ITEM 7.01.
REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
Supplemental information to be discussed on the February 4, 2009 analyst call. This information will also be published on NiSource's website (www.nisource.com) on February 4, 2009.
ITEM 9.01.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
February 4, 2009
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
News Highlights:
NiSource Inc. (NYSE: NI) today announced net operating earnings (non-GAAP) of $348.5 million, or $1.27 per share, for the 12 months ended Dec. 31, 2008, compared to net operating earnings of $363.5 million, or $1.33 per share for 2007. NiSource's consolidated operating earnings (non-GAAP) for the 12 months ended 2008 were $917.5 million, compared to $979.7 million in 2007.
MERRILLVILLE, Ind. 
On a GAAP basis, NiSource reported income from continuing operations for the twelve months ended Dec. 31, 2008, of $369.8 million, or $1.35 per share, compared with $302.9 million, or $1.10 per share last year. Operating income was $917.7 million for 2008 versus $916.7 million in the year-ago period. Schedules 1 and 2 of this news release contain a reconciliation of net operating earnings and operating earnings to GAAP.
For the three months ended Dec. 31, 2008, net operating earnings were $126.0 million, or $0.46 per share, compared with $111.0 million, or $0.41 per share, for the fourth quarter of 2007. On a GAAP basis, income from continuing operations for the three months ended Dec. 31, 2008 was $127.0 million, or $0.46 per share, compared with $59.5 million, or $0.21 per share for the fourth quarter of 2007.
NiSource President and CEO noted that the company delivered 2008 earnings within the company's guidance range of $1.25 to $1.35 per share while executing an aggressive array of initiatives designed to enhance long-term shareholder value.
Robert C. Skaggs Jr.
"Across virtually every key dimension of our business, our teams made excellent progress in executing on our business strategy in 2008," Skaggs said. "In what proved to be an extraordinary year for us and so many businesses, we were able to hit our key financial and business targets and continue building a foundation for sustainable investment-driven growth. These were outstanding achievements, especially in light of current difficult economic and financial conditions. Having said that, we fully appreciate the challenges that lie ahead and we are focused on managing them effectively."
 
Skaggs also emphasized that NiSource's management team and Board of Directors have taken steps to address the ongoing economic downturn and challenging conditions that have persisted in the financial markets.
"As described later in this release, the initiatives we are taking are designed to preserve the core elements of our business strategy while conserving cash resources and reducing the need to raise capital in the financial markets," Skaggs said. "This balanced, measured approach, together with our proactive strategy for managing the company's near-term financing requirements, will allow NiSource to maintain adequate liquidity while advancing our business and regulatory agenda."
Skaggs also indicated that NiSource's net operating earnings (non-GAAP) for 2009 are expected to fall within a range of $1.00 to $1.10 per share. As discussed below, major factors affecting the company's outlook include increased pension and interest expenses, as well as the impact of the economic downturn.
In reporting NiSource's 2008 results, Skaggs highlighted accomplishments across all aspects of the company's balanced plan for achieving long-term, sustainable growth:
Executing on regulatory initiatives and infrastructure programs at NiSource's utilities
During 2008, NiSource teams advanced an array of infrastructure enhancement programs and complementary regulatory and commercial initiatives.
 
"Successfully advancing this array of ground-breaking regulatory and infrastructure initiatives was a fundamental element of NiSource's business strategy for 2008," Skaggs said. "I am pleased to report that our teams executed against our aggressive plan quite effectively. Looking to 2009, we likewise are focused on a very active regulatory agenda, particularly with respect to the successful resolution of NIPSCO's rate case, and we understand the need to continue to execute at a high level."
Expanding and growing NiSource's natural gas transmission and storage business
During 2008, NiSource's Gas Transmission & Storage (NGT&S) business continued its strategy of developing a portfolio of growth projects and maximizing value from its existing asset base.
"The NGT&S team notched an impressive year, despite confronting a series of unprecedented challenges, including a late-2007 pipeline rupture in Louisiana and the February 2008 destruction of a mainline compressor station by a tornado," Skaggs said. "The response of our team to these challenges was truly exceptional."
 
Skaggs acknowledged that the pace of growth project development has been affected by the recent economic downturn. "While we are seeing some near-term softening in the development cycle, our NGT&S team remains active in the market and is well positioned to originate new projects as market conditions improve," Skaggs said.
Strengthening NiSource's financial foundation
As part of its efforts to strengthen its balance sheet and focus on its core regulated assets, NiSource took a number of steps in 2008 to divest certain non-strategic assets and to address remaining legacy issues. These included:
Skaggs also pointed to important steps taken during 2008 to secure financing and strengthen NiSource's liquidity position.
2009 agenda, earnings outlook shaped by global financial environment
Turning to 2009, Skaggs said NiSource will continue to advance its core business plan while proactively addressing issues created by the global financial and economic downturn.
"Since the financial crisis began, NiSource's executive team and Board of Directors have been closely monitoring developments, assessing potential impacts on our businesses and developing plans to effectively manage through this period," Skaggs said. A key area of focus relate to continued access to credit markets, on reasonable terms. We are concentrating on the impacts of the economic decline on the industrial and other markets we serve, and increases in pension expense and funding requirements. Although none of these issues are insurmountable or unique to NiSource, they certainly represent a set of challenges that we need to - and will - thoughtfully and proactively manage."
Liquidity plan in place
As of Dec. 31, 2008, NiSource had two outstanding short-term credit facilities; a five-year, $1.5 billion revolving facility that extends to July 2011 and a six-month, $500 million facility that extends to March 2009. Approximately $750 million of aggregate credit capacity was available under the facilities as of the end of 2008.
 
Looking forward, Skaggs emphasized that maintaining adequate liquidity is the key near-term priority for NiSource and indicated that the company has developed a range of strategies to effectively address its liquidity needs. The combined effect of these initiatives has been to reduce the company's total projected 2009 financing requirements from nearly $1 billion to approximately $500 million. These steps include:
The company's resulting $500 million financing requirement for 2009 includes the refinancing of outstanding debt scheduled to mature in November 2009 and all payments associated with the Tawney settlement. NiSource plans to meet this requirement through a combination of measures. First, the company plans to issue unsecured corporate debt up to $500 million. Currently, NiSource is in advanced discussions with a syndicate of banks concerning a two-year term issuance maturing in April 2011. The initial closing of the facility will occur later this month, with a subsequent closing to take place in early April under an "accordion" feature to be included in the arrangement. To date, NiSource has received bank commitments totaling $265 million, with the ultimate level of the facility expected to be up to $350 million. In addition, NiSource is working toward issuing up to an aggregate of $350 million of secured and unsecured debt at a number of its utilities and at Columbia Gas Transmission.
"I am confident we will be successful in maintaining an adequate liquidity position for NiSource going forward," Skaggs added. "With the aggressive steps we have already taken and a series of measures in process, we are well on our way to meeting this year's financing requirements. At the same time, we are also actively focused on our 2010 financing requirements and will take advantage of market conditions to address those needs on an aggressive and opportunistic basis."
Skaggs noted that the company has undertaken a number of additional initiatives to mitigate the effect of the current economic downturn, including reducing O&M expenses, limiting the hiring and replacement of employees, freezing base compensation for NiSource senior executives and postponing most exempt employee pay increases.
"Our portfolio of regulated assets and our balanced business plan are better suited than many to weather the current economic and financial market conditions," Skaggs said. "Having said that, we are by no means immune to these conditions and we are taking meaningful steps to address their impact on our company."
Earnings outlook for 2009
Skaggs noted that the most significant impact on NiSource's near-term earnings outlook relates to an increase in pension expense of about $100 million, or about 24 cents per share, in 2009 due to the deterioration in global securities markets in 2008. In addition, interest expense is expected to increase over 2008 levels by approximately 12 cents per share.
Based on those and other impacts, including various regulatory and commercial initiatives and the effect of the economic slowdown on customer demand, Skaggs said NiSource anticipates that its net operating earnings (non-GAAP) will fall within a range of $1.00 to $1.10 per share for 2009. On a GAAP basis, the range for basic earnings per share from continuing operations for 2009 is likewise $1.00 to $1.10 per share. Skaggs noted that given the significant uncertainties surrounding the current economic conditions, NiSource has decided to limit its earnings outlook to 2009 at this time. The company will consider providing multi-year guidance in the future as conditions warrant.
 
"Although somewhat obscured by today's financial and economic conditions and the headwinds they present for the coming year, 2008 was indeed a very strong year for NiSource," Skaggs said. "We executed effectively against an aggressive, highly visible plan. Going forward, and understanding the challenges presented by the current economic environment, we believe that our core business agenda  infrastructure investment synched with appropriate regulatory and commercial activities  continues to be the appropriate long-term strategy for NiSource."
Full Year 2008 Operating Earnings  Segment Results (non-GAAP)
NiSource's consolidated operating earnings (non-GAAP) for the year ended Dec. 31, 2008, were $917.5 million, compared to $979.7 million in 2007. Refer to Schedule 2 for the items included in 2008 and 2007 GAAP operating income but excluded from operating earnings.
Operating earnings for NiSource's business segments for the twelve months ended Dec. 31, 2008 are discussed below.
reported operating earnings of $326.9 million compared to $345.2 million in 2007. Net revenues, excluding the impact of regulatory trackers, increased $25.7 million, primarily attributable to regulatory and service programs including impacts from rate cases at various utilities, partially offset by reduced revenues as a result of a stipulation entered into among COH and its regulatory stakeholders in late 2007. Operating expenses, excluding trackers, were $44.0 million higher than the comparable period including increases in employee and administrative costs, depreciation costs, and other taxes.
Gas Distribution Operations
reported operating earnings of $376.7 million versus operating earnings of $371.8 million in 2007. The increase resulted primarily from lower operating expenses. Operating expenses decreased by $4.1 million due to lower legal reserves and insurance costs partially offset by higher employee and administrative expenses.
Gas Transmission and Storage Operations
Net revenues were lower by $2.1 million, the result of a $9 million legal settlement that reduced net revenues in the fourth quarter of 2008. Excluding this settlement, the increase in net revenues resulted from increases in firm capacity reservation fees partly offset by lower revenues from shorter term transportation and storage services and commodity margins. The increase in firm capacity reservation fees were the result of higher Columbia Gas Transmission revenue for storage services, new Appalachian Supply interconnects, and incremental revenue from transportation agreements on both Columbia Gulf Transmission and Columbia Gas Transmission. Equity earnings increased by $2.9 million due to increased AFUDC earnings from Millennium Pipeline partially offset by increased interest expense from Hardy Storage.
reported operating earnings of $220.2 million for 2008, compared with $283.1 in 2007. Lower net revenues and higher operating expenses both contributed to the lower operating earnings. Net revenues decreased by $21.6 million due to lower wholesale, residential and commercial margins and non-recoverable purchased power and MISO related costs. These decreases were partially offset by incremental revenues from the new Sugar Creek plant, increased industrial margins and the impact from last year's settlement relating to power purchased by NIPSCO which reduced operating earnings by $16.2 million during the third quarter ended Sept. 30, 2007.
Electric Operations
Operating expenses increased by $41.3 million due to higher employee and administrative costs, electric generation and maintenance expenses, including expenses associated with the Sugar Creek facility and higher depreciation costs. The higher depreciation costs included an $8.3 million adjustment recorded by NIPSCO during the second quarter of this year.
reported operating earnings of $1.8 million for 2008 which were flat with prior year's results. These operating earnings results no longer include earnings associated with the WCE facility which was sold to BPAE on June 30, 2008. Earnings associated with WCE's operations have been reclassified to discontinued operations for the current and comparable periods. Other Operations primarily include commercial and industrial gas marketing activities.
Other Operations
 
Other Items
Interest expense decreased by $27.0 million due to lower short-term interest rates and credit facility fees and the retirement late in 2007 of high-cost debt associated with the WCE facility. Other-net was income of $0.9 million compared to a loss of $6.4 million last year due to lower costs related to the sale of accounts receivable. The effective tax rate of net operating earnings for 2008 is 35.8% compared to last year's rate of 36.3%.
Fourth Quarter 2008 Operating Earnings  Segment Results (non-GAAP)
NiSource's consolidated fourth-quarter 2008 operating earnings (non-GAAP) were $297.2 million, compared to $278.5 million for the same period in 2007. Refer to Schedule 2 for the items included in 2008 and 2007 GAAP operating income but excluded from operating earnings.
Operating earnings for NiSource's business segments for the quarter ended Dec. 31, 2008, are discussed below.
reported operating earnings of $133.8 million versus operating earnings of $124.8 million in the fourth quarter of 2007. The increase in earnings resulted primarily from increased net revenues which were $13.9 million higher than the prior year excluding the impact of regulatory trackers. The increase in net revenues was due to regulatory and service programs including impacts from rate cases at Columbia Gas of Pennsylvania, Columbia Gas of Ohio and Bay State Gas. Operating expenses, excluding trackers, increased by $4.9 million due to higher employee and administrative expenses and depreciation costs partially offset by lower environmental expenses and uncollectible accounts.
Gas Distribution Operations
reported operating earnings of $116.5 million versus operating earnings of $114.4 million in the fourth quarter of 2007. The increase was due to the impact of legal reserves which reduced earnings in the prior period, transportation revenues from contract buyouts, and an increase in equity earnings partially offset by lower revenues from shorter term transportation and storage services and higher employee and administrative expenses.
Gas Transmission and Storage Operations
reported operating earnings of $47.9 million versus operating earnings of $46.0 million from the same quarter last year. Operating expenses decreased by $1.1 million due mostly to lower employee and administrative expenses and electric generation and maintenance expenses partially offset by higher depreciation costs and expenses associated with the Sugar Creek facility. Net revenues increased by $0.8 million compared to the same quarter last year primarily due to lower non-recoverable purchased power costs partially offset by lower wholesale and industrial margins.
Electric Operations
reported operating earnings of $0.8 million in the fourth quarter of 2008, compared with operating earnings of $2.0 million in the prior year period due to decreased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing activities.
Other Operations
Other Items
Interest expense decreased by $2.3 million in the fourth quarter of 2008 compared to the same period last year due to lower short-term interest rates. Other-net was a loss of $3.0 million compared to a loss of $4.6 million last year due to lower costs related to the sale of accounts receivable.
Income from Continuing Operations (GAAP)
On a GAAP basis, NiSource reported income from continuing operations for the twelve months ended Dec. 31, 2008, of $369.8 million, or 1.35 cents per share, compared with $302.9 million, or 1.10 cents per share last year. Operating income was $917.7 million for 2008 versus $916.7 million in the year-ago period.
 
This year's results include a $16.7 million pre-tax gain for a sale of an equity interest in JOF Transportation Company, a $14.9 million reduction of deferred taxes as a result of tax legislation enacted in Massachusetts and a $12.7 million adjustment that decreased medical expenses due to a misclassification of medical claims during 2007.
Last year's results include a $40.6 million pre-tax loss on early extinguishment of debt and other items which in total reduced 2007 net operating earnings by $60.6 million after-tax.
On a GAAP basis, NiSource reported income from continuing operations for the three months ended Dec. 31, 2008, of $127.0 million, or 46 cents per share, compared with $59.5 million, or 21 cents per share, in the same period a year ago. Operating income was $298.7 million for the quarter compared with $232.7 million in the year-ago period. Last year's results include a $40.6 million pre-tax loss on early extinguishment of debt and other items which in total reduced 2007 fourth quarter net operating earnings by $51.5 million after-tax.
Refer to Schedule 1 for a complete list of the items included in 2008 and 2007 GAAP income from Continuing Operations but excluded from net operating earnings.
Discontinued Operations
In the first quarter of 2008, NiSource began accounting for the operations of Northern Utilities, Granite State Gas and Whiting Clean Energy as discontinued operations. All three businesses were disposed of during 2008. For the twelve months ended Dec. 31, 2008, NiSource recorded an after-tax loss of $108.1 million (39 cents per share) for the disposition of these operations. All results of operations for these businesses are classified as net income from discontinued operations. In addition, NiSource recorded an accrual related to the Tawney lawsuit in West Virginia which was settled during the fourth quarter of 2008.
 
About NiSource
NiSource Inc. (NYSE: NI), based in Merrillville, Ind., is a Fortune 500 company engaged in natural gas transmission, storage and distribution, as well as electric generation, transmission and distribution. NiSource operating companies deliver energy to 3.8 million customers located within the high-demand energy corridor stretching from the Gulf Coast through the Midwest to New England. Information about NiSource and its subsidiaries is available via the Internet at . NI-F
www.nisource.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Investors and prospective investors should understand that many factors govern whether any forward-looking statement contained herein will be or can be realized. Any one of those factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning NiSource's plans, objectives, expected performance, expenditures and recovery of expenditures through rates, stated on either a consolidated or segment basis, and any and all underlying assumptions and other statements that are other than statements of historical fact. From time to time, NiSource may publish or otherwise make available forward-looking statements of this nature. All such subsequent forward-looking statements, whether written or oral and whether made by or on behalf of NiSource, are also expressly qualified by these cautionary statements. All forward-looking statements are based on assumptions that management believes to be reasonable; however, there can be no assurance that actual results will not differ materially. Realization of NiSource's objectives and expected performance is subject to a wide range of risks and can be adversely affected by, among other things, weather, fluctuations in supply and demand for energy commodities, growth opportunities for NiSource's businesses, increased competition in deregulated energy markets, the success of regulatory and commercial initiatives, dealings with third parties over whom NiSource has no control, the effectiveness of NiSource's restructured outsourcing agreement, actual operating experience of NiSource's assets, the regulatory process, regulatory and legislative changes, changes in general economic, capital and commodity market conditions, and counterparty credit risk, many of which risks are beyond the control of NiSource. In addition, the relative contributions to profitability by each segment, and the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements relating thereto, may change over time. NiSource expressly disclaims a duty to update any of the forward-looking statements contained in this report.
 
 
Gas Distribution Operations
Gas Transmission and Storage Operations
 
Electric Operations
Other Operations
Corporate
 
Gas Distribution Operations
Gas Transmission and Storage Operations
 
Electric Operations
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 


