FILE:NI/NI-8K-20090804070116.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions.
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2 (b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4 (c))
o
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
On August 4, 2009, NiSource Inc. (the "Company") reported its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2009. The Company's press release, dated August 4, 2009, is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
ITEM 9.01.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(d) Exhibits
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
801 E. 86th Avenue Merrillville, IN 46410
August 4, 2009
AUDIT COMMITTEE DRAFT:
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
.  NiSource Inc. (NYSE: NI) today announced net operating earnings (non-GAAP) of $6.2 million, or 2 cents per share, for the three months ended June 30, 2009, a decrease from $23.2 million, or 8 cents per share, for the second quarter of 2008. Operating earnings (non-GAAP) were $117 million compared to $119.7 million for the same period in 2008.
MERRILLVILLE, Ind
On a GAAP basis, NiSource reported a loss from continuing operations for the three months ended June 30, 2009, of $8.7 million, or 3 cents per share, compared with income of $19.7 million, or 7 cents per share, in the same period a year ago. Operating income was $103.9 million for the second quarter of 2009 compared with $114.4 million in the year-ago period.
The company's quarterly results were primarily affected by the previously reported increased pension expense related to the deterioration in global securities markets in 2008, reduced revenues in the company's electric business resulting from the economic recession, and incremental interest expense related to the issuance of long-term debt under the company's liquidity plan. These impacts were partially offset by increased revenues in NiSource's gas transmission & storage and gas distribution businesses, as well as the effects of open market debt repurchases and lower short-term interest rates.
Managing Economic Impacts
NiSource President and Chief Executive Officer Robert C. Skaggs, Jr. noted that NiSource's core businesses have continued to produce solid results, despite an extremely challenging economic environment.
Skaggs indicated that commercial and industrial deliveries in particular have been impacted by the continuing economic recession, especially in the company's northern Indiana markets, where second quarter electric industrial demand was approximately 25 percent below the prior year's level.
 
"Against a backdrop of extraordinary economic circumstances, NiSource's businesses have taken aggressive steps to mitigate the impact of these near-term economic and financial headwinds while continuing to execute on our long-term financial, regulatory and infrastructure enhancement initiatives that will provide sustainable earnings growth for the future," Skaggs said.
NiSource's quarterly results were impacted by a $24.8 million (or approximately 6 cents per share) increase in pension expense and a $21.3 million (or approximately 5 cents per share) decrease in net revenues from electric operations mainly due to lower industrial and commercial demand. The company successfully mitigated a significant portion of these impacts through increased revenues and aggressive cost management efforts across all its businesses, Skaggs said.
Although not reflected in second quarter results, Skaggs also noted that the company's Columbia Gas of Ohio (COH) unit received authority on July 8 from the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio (PUCO) to defer the difference between actual pension and other postretirement benefits expense and the levels reflected in COH's base rates. The financial impact of the deferral, which is expected to positively impact 2009 operating earnings by approximately $13 million, or about 3 cents per share, will be reflected in the company's results for the third and fourth quarters.
"While the effects of the economic downturn are proving to be deeper and longer than we had hoped, our teams are working day and night to mitigate these impacts and deliver results in line with the earnings outlook we provided earlier this year. Without minimizing the daunting challenges we  and virtually all companies  are facing in managing through these turbulent times, I continue to be encouraged by the fact that our underlying business performance remains strong, our liquidity position is solid, and we are delivering on our commitment to preserve and execute on the core elements of our business strategy."
2009 Guidance Reaffirmed
Skaggs noted that, despite current economic conditions, NiSource's earnings outlook remains consistent with the company's previously announced net operating earnings (non-GAAP) guidance of $1.00 to $1.10 per share for 2009.
"We continue to monitor the economic situation closely and make appropriate, balanced adjustments to our near-term business plans," Skaggs added. "As we indicated earlier this year, our original outlook assumed a gradual economic recovery during the second half of 2009. Obviously, the pace and strength of that recovery remain to be seen. Although we certainly will continue to proactively and aggressively manage the ongoing financial impacts of the downturn, a variety of economic factors  particularly industrial and commercial usage  will remain a key sensitivity for all our businesses going forward."
Liquidity Position Remains Solid
Skaggs noted that NiSource continues to maintain a solid liquidity position, having successfully executed against its previously announced financing and liquidity plan. This plan allowed the company to fully address its 2009 debt refinancing requirements and placed NiSource well on the way toward meeting its 2010 refinancing needs. NiSource estimates that its remaining financing requirements through 2010 will be up to $500 million.
2
 
In terms of recent developments, on June 25, Columbia Gas of Virginia received approval from the Virginia State Corporation Commission for the issuance of long-term debt of up to $75 million. Northern Indiana Public Service Co. (NIPSCO) also is in the process of obtaining IURC approval to issue $120 million of debt related to its Sugar Creek generating facility.
During the third quarter of 2009, NiSource also expects to add an accounts receivable securitization facility for Columbia Gas of Pennsylvania and is in the process of executing similar new facilities at COH and NIPSCO. Total capacity of these facilities is expected to be approximately $525 million with opportunities for annual renewal and capacity increases as required.
Business Initiatives Advancing
NiSource's business units continued to advance key growth and infrastructure enhancement programs, synchronized with complementary regulatory and commercial initiatives:
continued making progress on the company's electric base rate case. Testimony by intervening parties was filed during the second quarter, and NIPSCO filed its last round of testimony in late June. A final round of evidentiary hearings began in late July. The case is expected to be resolved, and new electric rates effective during the first quarter of 2010.
NIPSCO
"Despite the obvious pressures caused by the economic downturn, we continue to see steady progress toward resolution of the NIPSCO rate case," Skaggs said. "Although much work remains ahead of us, I am pleased with our team's efforts to advance the case in a constructive manner."
(NGT&S) business continued its strong 2009 performance during the second quarter, with increases in Columbia Gas Transmission revenue from storage services, new Appalachian supply interconnects, and incremental revenue from transportation agreements on both Columbia Gulf Transmission and Columbia Gas Transmission.
NiSource's Gas Transmission & Storage
The NGT&S team also continued developing a stream of new growth projects that capitalize on the company's strong asset base.
3
 
"Although no part of our business is completely immune from the effects of the economic downturn, the continued strong performance in our NGT&S unit has clearly helped mitigate some of the near-term earnings pressures we are seeing in other parts of our business," Skaggs said. "The NGT&S team also is continuing to aggressively address its cost structure and advance new energy infrastructure projects that will be key contributors to NiSource's long-term growth profile."
NiSource's business also delivered strong results during the quarter, benefiting in part from its ongoing efforts to improve rate design and align its infrastructure replacement and enhancement programs with a number of regulatory initiatives.
Gas Distribution
4
 
"These proceedings continue NiSource's collaborative regulatory approach toward engaging stakeholders in addressing issues related to energy conservation, progressive rate design and timely recovery of ongoing infrastructure enhancement investments," Skaggs said. "Building on last year's successes in Ohio and Pennsylvania, our gas distribution team continues to make excellent progress in executing on that strategy."
Second Quarter 2009 Operating Earnings  Segment Results (non-GAAP)
NiSource's consolidated second-quarter 2009 operating earnings (non-GAAP) were $117.0 million, compared to $119.7 million for the same period in 2008. Refer to Schedule 2 for the items included in 2009 and 2008 GAAP operating income but excluded from operating earnings.
Operating earnings for NiSource's business segments for the quarter ended June 30, 2009, are discussed below. Operating expenses were impacted across NiSource's business segments by an increase in pension expense of $24.8 million which is the result of negative pension plan asset returns during 2008 that are discussed in more detail in NiSource's 2008 SEC Form10-K.
reported operating earnings of $7.5 million versus an operating earnings loss of $3.9 million in the second quarter of 2008. Net revenues, excluding the impact of regulatory trackers, increased $18.2 million, which was primarily attributable to regulatory and service programs including impacts from rate cases at various utilities, partially offset by decreased customer usage.
Gas Distribution Operations
Operating expenses, excluding trackers, were $6.8 million higher than the comparable period, reflecting an increase in pension expense of $10.6 million and higher depreciation costs of $5.3 million, partially offset by lower employee and administrative costs, excluding pension.
reported operating earnings of $80.9 million versus operating earnings of $75.5 million in the second quarter of 2008. The increase resulted primarily from increased net revenues of $13.1 million, which was primarily attributable to increases in firm capacity reservation fees and shorter term transportation and storage services partially offset by lower commodity margins. The increase in firm capacity reservation fees was the result of higher revenue for storage services, new Appalachian Supply interconnects, and incremental revenue from transportation agreements.
Gas Transmission and Storage Operations
Equity earnings decreased by $4.2 million primarily due to a charge resulting from interest rate hedges related to Millennium Pipeline's (Millennium) decision to delay permanent financing until 2010 instead of in 2009 as was originally projected, partially offset by increased earnings from Millennium.
5
 
Operating expenses increased $3.5 million due primarily to higher pension expense.
reported operating earnings of $31.1 million versus operating earnings of $52.1 million from the same quarter last year. Net revenues decreased by $21.3 million primarily as a result of lower industrial and commercial usage due to current economic conditions and lower off-system sales.
Electric Operations
Operating expenses decreased by $0.3 million due primarily to a $7.2 million decrease in depreciation and a $5.1 million decrease in other taxes due to lower property taxes, mostly offset by higher pension expense of $10.5 million and higher electric generation and maintenance costs of $5.0 million. The decrease in depreciation expense is due to the impact of an $8.3 million adjustment recorded by NIPSCO during the second quarter of 2008.
reported an operating earnings loss of $1.7 million in the second quarter of 2009, compared with an operating earnings loss of $1.4 million in the prior year period. These operating earnings results no longer include earnings associated with unregulated natural gas marketing activities which are now reflected as discontinued operations for all periods presented. Please see the discussion below under "Discontinued Operations" for additional information.
Other Operations
Other Items
Interest expense increased by $17.9 million primarily due to incremental interest expense associated with the issuance of $700 million of long-term debt in May of 2008 and $600 million of long-term debt in March of 2009, partially offset by the open market debt repurchase of $100 million in January 2009, the $250.6 million tender offer debt repurchase in April 2009 and lower short-term interest rates. Other-net was a loss of $0.5 million compared to income of $1.3 million for the second quarter of 2008 as a result of lower interest income.
Six Month Period 2009 Operating Earnings  Segment Results (non-GAAP)
NiSource's consolidated operating earnings (non-GAAP) for the six months ended June 30, 2009, were $486.3 million, compared to $513.1 million for the same period in 2008. Refer to Schedule 2 for the items included in 2009 and 2008 GAAP operating income but excluded from operating earnings.
Operating earnings for NiSource's business segments for the six months ended June 30, 2009 are discussed below. Operating expenses increased across NiSource's business segments mainly due to increased pension expense of $49.2 million which is primarily the result of negative pension plan asset returns during 2008 that are discussed in more detail in NiSource's 2008 SEC Form10-K.
6
 
reported operating earnings of $244.8 million compared to $251.6 million reported for the first six months of 2008. Net revenues, excluding the impact of regulatory trackers, increased $23.8 million, primarily attributable to regulatory and service programs including impacts from rate cases at various utilities, partially offset by decreased customer usage and lower off-system sales revenues.
Gas Distribution Operations
Operating expenses, excluding trackers, were $30.6 million higher than the comparable period, reflecting increases in pension expense of $20.9 million together with higher depreciation costs, maintenance costs and uncollectible accounts.
reported operating earnings of $192.0 million versus operating earnings of $179.9 million in the first six months of 2008. The increase resulted primarily from increased net revenues of $24.1 million, primarily attributable to increases in firm capacity reservation fees, increases in shorter term transportation and storage services and the impact of regulatory trackers. The increase in firm capacity reservation fees was the result of higher Columbia Gas Transmission revenue for storage services, new Appalachian Supply interconnects, and incremental revenue from transportation agreements on both Columbia Gulf Transmission and Columbia Gas Transmission.
Gas Transmission and Storage Operations
Equity earnings increased by $0.2 million primarily resulting from increased earnings from Millennium, offset by a charge resulting from interest rate hedges related to Millennium's decision to delay permanent financing until 2010 instead of in 2009 as was originally projected.
Operating expenses increased by $12.2 million due to higher pension expense, regulatory trackers and environmental costs, partially offset by lower maintenance costs, corporate insurance and materials and supplies.
reported operating earnings of $57.2 million for the first six months of 2009, compared with $90.1 million for the prior year period. Lower net revenues and higher operating expenses both contributed to the lower operating earnings. Net revenue decreased by $17.0 million primarily from lower industrial usage due to current economic conditions and lower off-system sales, partially offset by lower non-recoverable purchased power.
Electric Operations
Operating expenses increased by $15.9 million due primarily to higher pension expense of $21.0 million and electric generation and maintenance expenses, partially offset by lower environmental and depreciation expenses. The decrease in depreciation expense is due to the impact of an $8.3 million adjustment recorded by NIPSCO during the second quarter of 2008.
reported an operating earnings loss of $3.1 million, essentially flat with the first six months of 2008. These operating earnings results no longer include earnings associated with unregulated natural gas marketing activities which are now reflected as discontinued operations for all periods presented. Please see the discussion below under "Discontinued Operations" for additional information.
Other Operations
7
 
Other Items
Interest expense increased by $16.6 million primarily due to incremental interest expense associated with the issuance of $700 million of long-term debt in May of 2008 and $600 million of long-term debt in March of 2009, partially offset by the open market debt repurchase of $100 million in January 2009, the $250.6 million tender offer debt repurchase in April 2009 and lower short-term interest rates. Other-net was a loss of $4.7 million compared to a loss of $0.4 million for the second quarter of 2008 as a result of lower interest income.
Income from Continuing Operations (GAAP)
On a GAAP basis, NiSource reported a net loss from continuing operations for the three months ended June 30, 2009, of $8.7 million, or 3 cents per share, compared with net income from continuing operations of $19.7 million, or 7 cents per share, in the same period a year ago. Operating income was $103.9 million for the second quarter of 2009, compared with $114.4 million in the year-ago period.
On a GAAP basis, NiSource reported income from continuing operations for the six months ended June 30, 2009, of $150.6 million, or 55 cents per share, compared with $208.3 million, or 76 cents per share last year. Operating income was $452.1 million for the first six months of 2009 versus $507.9 million in the year-ago period.
Refer to Schedule 1 for a complete list of the items included in 2009 and 2008 GAAP income from Continuing Operations but excluded from net operating earnings.
Discontinued Operations
In the second quarter of 2009, NiSource signed a letter of intent to sell its unregulated natural gas marketing activities. These operations have been removed from NiSource's Other Operations business segment and are now being accounted for as discontinued operations. As such, net income of $13.5 million was classified as net income from discontinued operations for both the three months and six months ended June 30, 2009, and $1.4 million and $2.2 million was reclassified to discontinued operations for the three months and six months ended June 30, 2008, respectively. NiSource also recorded a net loss on sale of discontinued operations of $8.8 million in June 2009, related to the proposed sale of the business.
About NiSource
NiSource Inc. (NYSE: NI), based in Merrillville, Ind., is a Fortune 500 company engaged in natural gas transmission, storage and distribution, as well as electric generation, transmission and distribution. NiSource operating companies deliver energy to 3.8 million customers located within the high-demand energy corridor stretching from the Gulf Coast through the Midwest to New England. Information about NiSource and its subsidiaries is available via the Internet at NI-F
www.nisource.com.
8
 
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Those statements include statements regarding the intent, belief or current expectations of NiSource and its management. Although NiSource believes that its expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, it can give no assurance that its goals will be achieved. Readers are cautioned that the forward-looking statements in this presentation are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks and uncertainties, and that actual results could differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: weather; fluctuations in supply and demand for energy commodities; growth opportunities for NiSource's businesses; increased competition in deregulated energy markets; the success of regulatory and commercial initiatives; dealings with third parties over whom NiSource has no control; the success of NiSource's restructuring of its outsourcing agreement; actual operating experience of NiSource assets; the regulatory process; regulatory and legislative changes; the impact of potential new environmental laws or regulations; the results of material litigation; changes in pension funding requirements; changes in general economic, capital and commodity market conditions; and counter-party credit risk.
9
 
10
 
11
 
12
 
13
 
14
 
15
 
16
 
17
 
18
 
19
 
20
 
21


