FILE:NI/NI-8K-20090501070033.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions.
 
 
Table of Contents
ITEM 2.02.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
On May 1, 2009, NiSource Inc. (the "Company") reported its financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2009. The Company's press release, dated May 1, 2009, is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
ITEM 9.01.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
801 E. 86th Avenue Merrillville, IN 46410
May 1, 2009
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
.  NiSource Inc. (NYSE: NI) today announced net operating earnings (non-GAAP) of $170.2 million, or 62 cents per share, for the three months ended March 31, 2009, compared to $189.4 million, or 69 cents per share, for the first quarter of 2008. Operating earnings (non-GAAP) were $369.4 million, compared to $394.8 million for the same period in 2008.
MERRILLVILLE, Ind
On a GAAP basis, NiSource reported income from continuing operations for the three months ended March 31, 2009, of $159.3 million, or 58 cents per share, compared with $189.5 million, or 69 cents per share, in the same period a year ago. Operating income was $348.3 million for the first quarter of 2009, compared with $394.9 million in the year-ago period.
NiSource President and Chief Executive Officer Robert C. Skaggs, Jr. noted that, as anticipated, the most significant impact on NiSource's first quarter earnings results was an increased pension expense of $25 million (or approximately 6 cents per share) related to the deterioration in global securities markets in 2008.
"Despite challenging economic conditions, NiSource produced another solid quarter of core earnings, while continuing to execute key financial, regulatory and infrastructure enhancement initiatives," Skaggs said. "Our first quarter earnings are consistent with the company's previously announced net operating earnings (non-GAAP) outlook of $1.00 to $1.10 per share for 2009, and our year-to-date accomplishments serve to underscore our continued commitment to preserving  and executing on  the core elements of our business strategy."
Skaggs highlighted several of NiSource's important recent accomplishments:
1
 
Enhancing a Solid Liquidity Position
During the past several months, NiSource has successfully executed against its previously announced financing and liquidity plan:
"NiSource's overall liquidity strategy, including our recent financial and optimization initiatives, not only fully addresses the company's 2009 debt refinancing requirements but also places us well on our way toward meeting our remaining 2010 refinancing needs of approximately $690 million," Skaggs said. "In light of the steps we have taken and are continuing to take, I am confident NiSource will maintain a solid liquidity position going forward."
Skaggs also noted that, on March 5, credit rating agency Standard & Poor's announced that it had affirmed NiSource's "BBB-" investment grade corporate credit rating and, notably, revised its outlook to stable from negative. "We appreciate this recognition that NiSource is executing on its comprehensive strategy to maintain financial flexibility and delivering on our core business commitments," Skaggs said.
2
 
Growth, Infrastructure Investments and Regulatory Initiatives Continue to Progress
NiSource's business units also continued to advance key growth and infrastructure enhancement programs, synchronized with complementary regulatory and commercial initiatives:
"Successful resolution of the NIPSCO rate case remains a very high priority for NIPSCO CEO Eileen O'Neill Odum and the entire NIPSCO team this year," Skaggs said. "While much work remains ahead of us, I am pleased with the progress we are making to establish a solid foundation for NIPSCO and position it to contribute to NiSource's growth going forward."
At NiSource's Gas Transmission & Storage (NGT&S) unit, work also continued on the development of new growth projects and the maximization of value from NiSource's existing asset base.
3
 
"The NGT&S team continues to make significant progress in developing and delivering new energy infrastructure projects that will provide enhanced supply access to Eastern and Southeastern market areas," Skaggs said. "These ongoing infrastructure projects are  and will continue to be  a key contributor to our long-term growth plan."
Regulatory and commercial initiatives also progressed at NiSource's gas distribution companies.
4
 
"Synchronization of our significant infrastructure replacement programs and enhancement projects with thoughtful, collaborative regulatory initiatives such as those being undertaken in Massachusetts and Kentucky is a central feature to NiSource's long-term gas distribution business strategy," Skaggs said. "Building on last year's successes in Ohio and Pennsylvania, our gas distribution team continues to make excellent progress in executing on that strategy."
First Quarter 2009 Operating Earnings  Segment Results (non-GAAP)
NiSource's consolidated operating earnings (non-GAAP) for the quarter ended March 31, 2009, were $369.4 million, compared to $394.8 million for the same period in 2008. Refer to Schedule 2 for the items included in 2009 and 2008 GAAP operating income but excluded from operating earnings.
Operating earnings for NiSource's business segments for the three months ended March 31, 2009 are discussed below.
reported operating earnings for the current quarter of $237.3 million compared to $255.6 million in the first quarter of 2008. Net revenues, excluding the impact of regulatory trackers, increased $5.1 million, primarily attributable to regulatory and service programs including impacts from rate cases at various utilities, partially offset by decreased customer usage and lower off-system sales revenues. Operating expenses, excluding trackers, were $23.4 million higher than the comparable period, reflecting increases in employee and administrative costs, uncollectible accounts, depreciation costs, and outside services. The increase in employee and administrative expenses for all operating segments was driven primarily by increased pension costs that were discussed in NiSource's 2008 SEC Form 10-K and Feb. 4, 2009 earnings release.
Gas Distribution Operations
reported operating earnings for the current quarter of $111.1 million versus operating earnings of $104.4 million in the first quarter of 2008. The increase resulted primarily from increased net revenues of $11.0 million, primarily attributable to increases in firm capacity reservation fees and the impact of regulatory trackers. The increase in firm capacity reservation fees was the result of higher Columbia Gas Transmission revenue for storage services, new Appalachian Supply interconnects, and incremental revenue from transportation agreements on both Columbia Gulf Transmission and Columbia Gas Transmission. Equity earnings increased by $4.4 million resulting from Millennium Pipeline being in service.
Gas Transmission and Storage Operations
Operating expenses increased by $8.7 million due to higher employee and administrative expenses, environmental costs, and regulatory trackers, partially offset by lower outside services fees and materials and supplies.
reported operating earnings for the current quarter of $26.1 million, compared with $38.0 million in the first quarter of 2008. The decrease resulted from higher operating expenses, partially offset by higher net revenues. Operating expenses increased by $16.2 million due to higher employee and administrative costs, electric generation and maintenance expenses, including expenses associated with the Sugar Creek facility, storm damage repairs, higher depreciation costs and other taxes. These increases were partially offset by lower environmental expenses resulting from an insurance settlement.
Electric Operations
Net revenues increased by $4.3 million due to increased residential and commercial margins partially offset by lower industrial and wholesale volumes and margins.
5
 
reported an operating loss for the current quarter of $1.4 million, compared with a loss of $0.5 million for the first quarter of 2008. The decrease was due to lower net revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing activities.
Other Operations
Other Items
Interest expense decreased by $1.3 million due to lower short-term interest rates and savings from the $100 million of open market debt repurchases in January 2009, partially offset by incremental interest expense associated with $700 million of debt issued in May 2008 and a partial month of interest expense associated with the $600 million of debt issued in March 2009. Other-net was a loss of $4.2 million compared to a loss of $1.5 million for the first quarter of 2008 as a result of lower interest income. The effective tax rate of net operating earnings for the first quarter 2009 was 38.0% compared to the tax rate of 37.2% for the first quarter of 2008. The increase in the effective tax rate is primarily due to a reduction in estimated Section 199 deductions as a result of lower projected taxable income for 2009, and an increase in tax expense related to AFUDC-Equity and certain depreciation differences.
Income from Continuing Operations (GAAP)
On a GAAP basis, NiSource reported income from continuing operations for the three months ended March 31, 2009, of $159.3 million or 58 cents per share, compared with $189.5 million, or 69 cents per share for the three months ended March 31, 2008. Operating income was $348.3 million for the first three months of 2009 versus $394.9 million in the year-ago period. In addition to the impacts discussed above, the first quarter 2009 GAAP results include a restructuring charge of $19.8 million related to the restructuring of Gas Transmission and Storage Operations. As previously announced, the majority of these charges include costs related to severance and other employee related costs.
Refer to Schedule 1 for a complete list of the items included in 2009 and 2008 GAAP income from Continuing Operations but excluded from net operating earnings.
About NiSource
NiSource Inc. (NYSE: NI), based in Merrillville, Ind., is a Fortune 500 company engaged in natural gas transmission, storage and distribution, as well as electric generation, transmission and distribution. NiSource operating companies deliver energy to 3.8 million customers located within the high-demand energy corridor stretching from the Gulf Coast through the Midwest to New England. Information about NiSource and its subsidiaries is available via the Internet at
www.nisource.com. NI-F
6
 
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release contains "forward-looking statements," within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Investors and prospective investors should understand that many factors govern whether any forward-looking statement contained herein will be or can be realized. Any one of those factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning NiSource's plans, objectives, expected performance, expenditures and recovery of expenditures through rates, stated on either a consolidated or segment basis, and any and all underlying assumptions and other statements that are other than statements of historical fact. From time to time, NiSource may publish or otherwise make available forward-looking statements of this nature. All such subsequent forward-looking statements, whether written or oral and whether made by or on behalf of NiSource, are also expressly qualified by these cautionary statements. All forward-looking statements are based on assumptions that management believes to be reasonable; however, there can be no assurance that actual results will not differ materially. Realization of NiSource's objectives and expected performance is subject to a wide range of risks and can be adversely affected by, among other things, weather, fluctuations in supply and demand for energy commodities, growth opportunities for NiSource's businesses, increased competition in deregulated energy markets, the success of regulatory and commercial initiatives, dealings with third parties over whom NiSource has no control, the success of NiSource's restructured outsourcing agreement, actual operating experience of NiSource's assets, the regulatory process, regulatory and legislative changes, changes in general economic, capital and commodity market conditions, and counter- party credit risk, many of which risks are beyond the control of NiSource. In addition, the relative contributions to profitability by each segment, and the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements relating thereto, may change over time. Nisource expressly claims a duty to update any of the foward-looking statements contained in this release.
7
 
8
 
9
 
10
 
11
 
12
 
13
 
2009 (in millions)
2008 (in millions)
14
 
15
 
16
 
17
 
18


