FILE:NI/NI-8K-20101029063041.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions.
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2 (b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4 (c))
o
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
On October 29, 2010, NiSource Inc. (the "Company") reported its financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2010. The Company's press release, dated October 29, 2010, is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
ITEM 9.01.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(d) Exhibits
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
October 29, 2010
 NiSource Inc. (NYSE: NI) today announced net operating earnings from continuing operations (non-GAAP) of $10.3 million, or 4 cents per share, for the three months ended September 30, 2010, a decrease from $19.4 million, or 7 cents per share, for the third quarter of 2009. Operating earnings (non-GAAP) were $109.9 million for the recent three months compared to $134.8 million for the same period in 2009.
MERRILLVILLE, Ind.
On a GAAP basis, NiSource reported income from continuing operations for the three months ended September 30, 2010, of $33.4 million, or 12 cents per share, compared with a loss of $13.2 million, or 5 cents per share, in the same period a year ago. Operating income was $123.3 million for the third quarter of 2010 compared with $93.6 million in the year-ago period. Schedules 1 and 2 of this news release contain a reconciliation of net operating earnings and operating earnings from continuing operations to GAAP.
The company's third quarter results benefited from increased electric industrial margins and off-system sales, as well as increased gas distribution revenues due to regulatory and infrastructure programs. These revenue increases were offset by anticipated increases in operating expenses, taxes and depreciation addressed in the segment discussions below.
NiSource President and Chief Executive Officer noted that third quarter operating earnings were expected to be somewhat below 2009 levels due to the items mentioned above. However, he emphasized that the company's overall 2010 financial performance is expected to exceed the net operating earnings outlook of $1.10 to $1.20 per share (non-GAAP) provided earlier in the year.
Robert C. Skaggs, Jr.
"Based on NiSource's solid year-to-date results and continued gradual economic recovery in some of our key markets, we are increasing our 2010 net operating earnings outlook to $1.20 to $1.25 per share. In addition, we are reiterating NiSource's commitment to growing earnings annually by 3 to 5 percent on a long term, sustainable basis," Skaggs said.
"NiSource's improved earnings outlook reflects the core strength of our team's 2010 performance and signs of resilience in some of our key markets," Skaggs said. "We are confident we will deliver on this improved outlook as we continue to execute on our balanced strategy to meet the needs of our customers and enhance shareholder value through long-term, infrastructure investment-driven growth."
Building flexibility to fund infrastructure investments
1
 
NiSource enhanced its ability to invest in new infrastructure improvements and growth opportunities through the successful execution of a $400 million equity offering of common stock in September. The offering, structured under a 24-month forward sale agreement, was fully subscribed under favorable pricing terms.
"For some time, we have highlighted the deep inventory of attractive infrastructure investment opportunities available to NiSource's three business units  amounting to approximately $1 billion annually  and we've emphasized our focus on building the financial capability to take advantage of those opportunities," Skaggs said.
"We also made clear, that as we managed the funding of these investments, we would do so in a manner consistent with our commitments to create long-term shareholder value, maintain our dividend and preserve our investment grade credit rating," Skaggs continued. "The successful equity offering meets these key criteria and positions the company to sustainably grow long-term earnings at the upper end of our targeted range."
Milestone regulatory advancements in Indiana
NiSource's Indiana team achieved several significant regulatory milestones during the third quarter as part of its commitment to enhance customer service, restore appropriate earnings levels and position the companies for continued growth.
"The third quarter marked several significant milestones in NIPSCO's efforts to enhance customer service, invest in Indiana's critical energy infrastructure and chart a course for long-term growth," Skaggs noted. "Going forward, our Indiana team is committed to working with all stakeholders in a constructive and collaborative fashion to continue addressing the needs of Indiana consumers and investors."
Pipeline growth projects in Marcellus Shale region advance
2
 
During the quarter, continued to advance strategic infrastructure investments linked to the Marcellus Shale production region in Appalachia.
NiSource's Gas Transmission & Storage Operations (NGT&S)
"The NGT&S team is executing on our strategy to grow the business through thoughtful, customer-driven projects leveraging our geographic presence in the Marcellus Shale region, including pursuing opportunities to transport production gas to processing facilities and market centers," Skaggs said. "At the same time, we're maximizing value from our existing assets by managing long-term contracts, expanding our customer base and maintaining safe and reliable operations."
Continued execution of infrastructure and regulatory programs
continues to execute its strategy of combining long-term infrastructure replacement programs with complementary regulatory initiatives.
NiSource's Gas Distribution Operations (NGD)
3
 
"Infrastructure and customer programs continue to advance at NGD," Skaggs said. "In addition to enhancing our ability to provide safe, reliable and responsive service to our millions of natural gas customers, these core programs continue to produce predictable, long-term and low-risk earnings growth."
2010 earnings guidance increased
As noted above, NiSource is increasing its full-year guidance to $1.20 to $1.25 per share of net operating earnings (non-GAAP). As outlined in the company's Feb. 1, 2010 earnings release, due to the unpredictability of weather and other factors, NiSource is not providing GAAP earnings guidance.
Third Quarter 2010 Operating Earnings  Segment Results (non-GAAP)
NiSource's consolidated third-quarter 2010 operating earnings (non-GAAP) were $109.9 million, compared to $134.8 million for the same period in 2009. Refer to Schedule 2 for the items included in 2010 and 2009 GAAP operating income but excluded from operating earnings.
Operating earnings for NiSource's business segments for the quarter ended September 30, 2010, are discussed below.
reported an operating earnings loss for the current quarter of $40.7 million compared to an operating earnings loss of $30.0 million in the third quarter of 2009. Net revenues, excluding the impact of regulatory trackers, increased $8.5 million, primarily attributable to regulatory and service programs. The increase in regulatory and service programs was largely due to Columbia Gas of Ohio's previously announced change from a volumetric to straight fixed-variable rate design. Additionally, Columbia Gas of Ohio implemented new rates under its approved infrastructure replacement program. The increase in revenue was partially offset by a decrease in commercial and residential margins as well as a decrease in off-system sales.
Gas Distribution Operations
Operating expenses, excluding trackers, were $19.2 million higher than the comparable 2009 period. The increase was primarily attributable to higher employee and administration costs, including the impacts of the previously deferred 2009 pension costs by Columbia Gas of Ohio.
reported operating earnings for the current quarter of $76.4 million compared to operating earnings of $100.2 million in the third quarter of 2009. Net revenues, excluding the impact of trackers, decreased by $7.8 million, driven by decreases in revenues from shorter term transportation and storage services and mineral rights lease revenues. These decreases were partially offset by higher demand and commodity margin revenues.
Gas Transmission and Storage Operations
Operating expenses, excluding the impact of trackers, increased $13.6 million compared to the third quarter of 2009. This increase was the result of an increase in maintenance and other outside service costs and employee and administration expenses, including pension costs.
Equity earnings decreased by $2.4 million primarily due to lower earnings at Millennium Pipeline, primarily because of higher interest expense.
reported operating earnings of $80.0 million versus operating earnings of $69.6 million from the same quarter last year. Net revenues, excluding trackers, increased by $17.4 million primarily as a result of increased industrial margins and higher off-system sales.
Electric Operations
Operating expenses, excluding the impact of trackers, increased by $7.0 million due primarily to increased employee and administration costs, higher electric generation costs and higher taxes (property and other).
4
 
reported an operating earnings loss of $5.8 million for the current quarter compared to a loss of $5.0 million in the third quarter of 2009.
Corporate and Other Operations
In the first quarter of 2010, the company eliminated the "Other" segment. NiSource's decision to wind down the unregulated natural gas marketing activities will impact the results from Other Operations. Results previously recorded as "Other" are now included within "Corporate and Other Operations."
Other Items
Interest expense decreased by $7.4 million primarily due to the December 2009 term loan repayment, the maturity of the company's November 2009 floating rate note, and lower short-term interest rates. The benefits were partially offset by incremental interest expense associated with the issuance of December 2009 long-term debt and the effect of the adoption of new accounting requirements related to the company's accounts receivable facilities.
Other-net was essentially flat for the third quarter of 2010 compared to the third quarter of 2009.
The effective tax rate of net operating earnings was 28.5 percent compared to 39.8 percent for the same period last year. During the third quarter of 2010, a rate settlement was approved that reduced income tax expense for accelerated tax deductions on property differences.
Nine-Month Period 2010 Operating Earnings  Segment Results (non-GAAP)
NiSource's consolidated operating earnings (non-GAAP) for the nine months ended September 30, 2010, were $669.0 million, compared to $621.6 million for the same period in 2009. Refer to Schedule 2 for the items included in 2010 and 2009 GAAP operating income but excluded from operating earnings.
Operating earnings for NiSource's business segments for the nine months ended September 30, 2010 are discussed below.
reported operating earnings of $229.9 million compared to $214.8 million reported for the nine months ended September 30, 2009. Net revenues, excluding the impact of regulatory trackers, increased $28.0 million, primarily attributable to regulatory and service programs and off-system sales. The increase to regulatory and service programs is primarily a result of recent rate case outcomes as well as Columbia Gas of Ohio's implementation of new rates under its approved infrastructure replacement program. These increased revenues were partially offset by a decrease in commercial and residential margins as well as decreased forfeited discounts and late payments.
Gas Distribution Operations
Operating expenses, excluding trackers, were $12.9 million higher than the comparable period, as a result of an increase in employee and administration expenses and depreciation costs. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in uncollectible expense.
reported operating earnings of $277.2 million versus operating earnings of $292.2 million as of September 30, 2009. Net revenues, excluding trackers, increased $14.1 million primarily attributable to increases in demand margin revenues, recognition of revenue related to a previously deferred gain for native gas contributed to Hardy Storage Company (Hardy Storage) from Columbia Gas Transmission following Hardy Storage securing permanent financing, and fees received from a contract buyout. Additionally, net revenue increased due to an increase in mineral rights royalty revenue. The increase in net revenues was partially offset by decreases in revenues from shorter term transportation and storage services as well as mineral rights lease revenue.
Gas Transmission and Storage Operations
5
 
Operating expenses, excluding the impact of trackers, increased by $30.8 million, primarily due to increased maintenance and outside service costs, higher employee and administration expenses, and increased depreciation costs. These increases were partially offset by decreases in legal and bad debt reserves.
Equity earnings increased by $1.7 million primarily due to lower interest charges at Millennium Pipeline.
reported operating earnings of $174.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2010, compared with operating earnings of $126.8 million for the prior year period. Net revenues increased by $59.9 million primarily from increased industrial and residential margins, higher off-system sales, and returns associated with environmental investments. These increases were partially offset by a increase in revenue credits.
Electric Operations
Operating expenses, excluding the impact of trackers, increased by $12.2 million due primarily to property taxes and environmental costs. Additionally, the increase is due to higher depreciation costs. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in uncollectible accounts.
reported an operating earnings loss of $12.6 million for the nine month period ended September 30, 2010, compared to an operating earnings loss of $12.2 million for the nine month period ended September 30, 2009.
Corporate and Other Operations
Other Items
Interest expense decreased by $5.9 million primarily due to the December 2009 term loan repayment, the maturity of the company's November 2009 floating rate note, and lower short-term interest rates. The benefits were partially offset by incremental interest expense associated with the issuance of December 2009 long-term debt and the effect of the adoption of new accounting requirements related to the company's accounts receivable facilities.
Other-net increased $9.6 million for the period ended September 30, 2010, compared to the period ended September 30, 2009 primarily due to favorable AFUDC rates and a reclassification of interest expense related to the adoption of new accounting requirements noted above.
The effective tax rate of net operating earnings was 35.6 percent compared to 38.5 percent for the same period last year. During the third-quarter of 2010, a rate settlement was approved that reduced income tax expense for accelerated tax deductions on property differences.
Income from Continuing Operations (GAAP)
As noted above, on a GAAP basis, NiSource reported net income from continuing operations for the three months ended September 30, 2010, of $33.4 million, or 12 cents per share, compared with a net loss from continuing operations of $13.2 million, or 5 cents per share, in the same period a year ago. Operating income was $123.3 million for the third quarter of 2010, compared with $93.6 million in the year-ago period.
On a GAAP basis, NiSource reported net income from continuing operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2010, of $258.8 million, or 93 cents per share, compared with $142.0 million, or 52 cents per share last year. Operating income was $665.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2010, versus $553.5 million in the year-ago period.
Refer to Schedule 1 for a complete list of the items included in 2010 and 2009 GAAP income from Continuing Operations but excluded from net operating earnings.
6
 
About NiSource
NiSource Inc. (NYSE: NI), based in Merrillville, Ind., is a Fortune 500 company engaged in natural gas transmission, storage and distribution, as well as electric generation, transmission and distribution. NiSource operating companies deliver energy to 3.8 million customers located within the high-demand energy corridor stretching from the Gulf Coast through the Midwest to New England. Information about NiSource and its subsidiaries is available via the Internet at www.nisource.com. NI-F
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Those statements include statements regarding the intent, belief or current expectations of NiSource and its management. Although NiSource believes that its expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, it can give no assurance that its goals will be achieved. Readers are cautioned that the forward-looking statements in this news release are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks and uncertainties, and that actual results could differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: weather; fluctuations in supply and demand for energy commodities; growth opportunities for NiSource's businesses; increased competition in deregulated energy markets; the success of regulatory and commercial initiatives; dealings with third parties over whom NiSource has no control; actual operating experience of NiSource's assets; the regulatory process; regulatory and legislative changes; the impact of potential new environmental laws or regulations; the results of material litigation; changes in pension funding requirements; changes in general economic, capital and commodity market conditions; and counter-party credit risk, and the matters set forth in the "Risk Factors" sections in NiSource's 2009 Form 10-K and 2010 Forms 10-Q, many of which risks are beyond the control of NiSource. NiSource expressly disclaims a duty to update any of the forward-looking statements contained in this release.
7
 
8
 
9
 
10
 
11
 
12
 
13
 
2010 (in millions)
2009 (in millions)
14
 
2010 (in millions)
2009 (in millions)
15
 
16
 
17
 
18
 
19


