FILE:NI/NI-8K-20100803070437.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions.
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
On August 3, 2010, NiSource Inc. (the "Company") reported its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2010. The Company's press release, dated August 3, 2010, is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
ITEM 9.01.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(d) Exhibits
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
Merrillville, IN 46410
801 E. 86th Avenue
 NiSource Inc. (NYSE: NI) today announced net operating earnings (non-GAAP) of $37.0 million, or 13 cents per share, for the three months ended June 30, 2010, an increase from $6.4 million, or 2 cents per share, for the second quarter of 2009. Operating earnings (non-GAAP) were $154.0 million compared to $117.4 million for the same period in 2009.
MERRILLVILLE, Ind.
On a GAAP basis, NiSource reported income from continuing operations for the three months ended June 30, 2010, of $28.0 million, or 10 cents per share, compared with a loss of $4.0 million, or 1 cent per share, in the same period a year ago. Operating income was $139.2 million for the second quarter of 2010 compared with $111.7 million in the year-ago period. Schedules 1 and 2 of this news release contain a reconciliation of net operating earnings and operating earnings to GAAP.
"We're encouraged by our performance in the first half of the year, and our team remains sharply focused on delivering on our commitments to all of our stakeholders over the balance of 2010," President and Chief Executive Officer Robert C. Skaggs, Jr. said.
Skaggs noted that for the fourth consecutive year, NiSource expects to deliver net operating earnings in line with its full-year outlook, which for 2010 is $1.10 to $1.20 per share (non-GAAP).
NiSource's second quarter results benefited from solid performance across all of its business units. In particular, increased electric industrial margins at , as well as revenue gains from infrastructure and regulatory programs at the company's natural gas utilities, contributed to the improved results compared to last year.
Northern Indiana Public Service Company (NIPSCO)
1
 
Regulatory, customer, and environmental initiatives advance in Indiana
NiSource's Indiana utilities continue their focus on initiatives to enhance customer service and reliability, modernize rate structures, and position the company for long-term, sustainable growth.
"As I've mentioned in prior updates, charting a course for NIPSCO's long-term strength is a top priority for the entire team," said Skaggs. "While we acknowledge that the process will take some time, we are committed to delivering strong performance on behalf of our customers, our communities, and our shareholders."
Disciplined growth project execution in the Marcellus Shale region
continues to execute on its disciplined strategy to leverage its unparalleled asset position in the Marcellus Shale region of the Appalachian supply basin.
NiSource's Gas Transmission & Storage Operations (NGT&S)
2
 
"We continue to be excited about the inventory of investment opportunities available to NGT&S," Skaggs said. "Our approach to these opportunities is thoughtful and straightforward, as we are focused on meeting our customers' needs and to making investments that are accretive for our shareholders. This disciplined approach has served NGT&S and its stakeholders well, and is one we will continue to follow."
Infrastructure and regulatory programs continue to demonstrate long-term, stable earnings growth
continues to advance its strategy of combining long-term infrastructure replacement programs with complementary regulatory initiatives.
NiSource's Gas Distribution Operations (NGD)
"Our portfolio of gas distribution companies continues to deliver innovative programs to customers and solid financial performance for shareholders," Skaggs said. "We have positioned this business to deliver long-term, low-risk earnings growth of approximately 3 percent, while providing our customers with safe, reliable and high-quality service."
3
 
2010 guidance affirmed
Skaggs reiterated that NiSource anticipates net operating earnings for 2010 will be in line with its full-year guidance of $1.10 to $1.20 per share of net operating earnings (non-GAAP). As outlined in the company's first quarter earnings release, due to the unpredictability of weather and other factors, NiSource is not providing GAAP earnings guidance. On a long-term basis, the company continues to anticipate a growth rate of 3 to 5 percent, driven by ongoing investments in its regulated asset base.
"Execution on our infrastructure investment programs, regulatory initiatives, and growth projects remains solid and squarely in line with our business plan," Skaggs said. "Moving forward, our objective continues to be to increase the level of our infrastructure investments over time and to do so in a manner that is accretive to shareholder value, and at the same time supportive of our investment grade credit profile. As we increase the annual capital spend to that level, we would expect our annual earnings growth rate to fall in the upper end of the 3 to 5 percent range."
Second Quarter 2010 Operating Earnings  Segment Results (non-GAAP)
NiSource's consolidated second-quarter 2010 operating earnings (non-GAAP) were $154.0 million, compared to $117.4 million for the same period in 2009. Refer to Schedule 2 for the items included in 2010 and 2009 GAAP operating income but excluded from operating earnings.
Operating earnings for NiSource's business segments for the quarter ended June 30, 2010, are discussed below.
reported operating earnings for the current quarter of $35.9 million compared to operating earnings of $7.5 million in the second quarter of 2009. Net revenues, excluding the impact of regulatory trackers, increased $34.9 million, primarily attributable to regulatory and service programs and off-system sales. The increase in regulatory and service programs was largely due to Columbia Gas of Ohio's previously announced change from a volumetric to straight fixed-variable rate design. The straight fixed-variable rate design allows recovery based on a flat monthly customer charge for certain customer classes which were previously recovered based on volumetric throughput. Additionally, Columbia Gas of Ohio implemented new rates under its approved infrastructure replacement program.
Gas Distribution Operations
Operating expenses, excluding trackers, were $6.5 million higher than the comparable 2009 period. The increase was primarily attributable to higher taxes and employee and administration expenses partially offset by lower charges attributable to uncollectible accounts.
reported operating earnings for the current quarter of $74.9 million compared to operating earnings of $80.9 million in the second quarter of 2009. Net revenues, excluding the impact of trackers, increased by $7.5 million, driven by higher demand margin revenues from projects placed into service in 2009, an increase in revenue from mineral rights, and fees received from a contract buyout. These increases were partially offset by decreases in revenues from shorter term transportation and storage services.
Gas Transmission and Storage Operations
Operating expenses, excluding the impact of trackers, increased $16.5 million compared to the second quarter of 2009. This increase was the result of an increase in employee and administration expense, maintenance and other outside service costs and depreciation costs.
4
 
Equity earnings increased by $3.0 million primarily due to lower interest charges at Millennium Pipeline in the current period.
reported operating earnings of $48.3 million versus operating earnings of $31.1 million from the same quarter last year. Net revenues, excluding trackers, increased by $27.3 million primarily as a result of increased industrial and residential margins.
Electric Operations
Operating expenses, excluding the impact of trackers, increased by $10.1 million due primarily to higher taxes and storm damage costs.
reported an operating earnings loss of $5.1 million for the current quarter compared to a loss of $2.1 million in the second quarter of 2009.
Corporate and Other Operations
In the first quarter of 2010, the company eliminated the "Other" segment. NiSource's decision to wind down the unregulated natural gas marketing activities will impact the results from Other Operations. Results previously recorded as "Other" are now included within "Corporate and Other Operations."
Other Items
Interest expense decreased by $6.9 million primarily due to the December 2009 term loan repayment, the maturity of the company's November 2009 floating rate note, and the tender offer repurchase of long-term debt in April 2009 coupled with lower short-term interest rates. The benefits were partially offset by incremental interest expense associated with the issuance of December 2009 long-term debt and the effect of the adoption of new accounting requirements related to the company's accounts receivable facilities.
Other-net increased $3.0 million for the second quarter of 2010 compared to the second quarter of 2009 primarily due to favorable Allowance for Funds Used During Construction (AFUDC) rates and a reclassification of interest expense related to the adoption of new accounting requirements noted above.
The effective tax rate of net operating earnings was 36.4 percent compared to 45.3 percent for the same period last year.
Six-Month Period 2010 Operating Earnings  Segment Results (non-GAAP)
NiSource's consolidated operating earnings (non-GAAP) for the six months ended June 30, 2010, were $559.1 million, compared to $486.8 million for the same period in 2009. Refer to Schedule 2 for the items included in 2010 and 2009 GAAP operating income but excluded from operating earnings.
Operating earnings for NiSource's business segments for the six months ended June 30, 2010 are discussed below.
5
 
reported operating earnings of $270.6 million compared to $244.8 million reported for the first six months of 2009. Net revenues, excluding the impact of regulatory trackers, increased $19.4 million, primarily attributable to regulatory and service programs and off-system sales. The increase to regulatory and service programs is a result of recent rate case outcomes. These increased revenues were partially offset by Columbia Gas Ohio's shift from a volumetric to straight fixed-variable rate billing structure. The straight fixed-variable rate design allows for recovery based on a flat monthly customer charge for certain customer classes which were previously recovered based on volumetric throughput. Additionally, Columbia Gas of Ohio implemented new rates under its approved infrastructure replacement program.
Gas Distribution Operations
Operating expenses, excluding trackers, were $6.4 million lower than the comparable period, as a result of a decrease in uncollectible accounts and environmental costs.
reported operating earnings of $200.8 million versus operating earnings of $192.0 million in the first six months of 2009. Net revenues, excluding trackers, increased $21.9 million primarily attributable to increases in demand margin revenues, recognition of revenue related to a previously deferred gain for native gas contributed to Hardy Storage Company (Hardy Storage) from Columbia Gas Transmission following Hardy Storage securing permanent financing, and fees received from a contract buyout. The increase in net revenues was partially offset by decreases in revenues from shorter term transportation and storage services.
Gas Transmission and Storage Operations
Operating expenses increased by $17.1 million, primarily due to increased maintenance and outside service costs, higher employee and administration expense, and depreciation costs.
Equity earnings increased by $4.0 million primarily due to lower interest charges at Millennium Pipeline in the current year.
reported operating earnings of $94.5 million for the first six months of 2010, compared with operating earnings of $57.2 million for the prior year period. Net revenues increased by $42.6 million primarily from increased industrial and residential margins and higher off-system sales.
Electric Operations
Operating expenses, excluding the impact of trackers, increased by $5.3 million due primarily to environmental costs, property taxes, and second quarter storm damage costs, partially offset by a decrease in electric generation costs and employee and administration expenses.
reported an operating earnings loss of $6.8 million in the first six months of 2010, compared to an operating earnings loss of $7.2 million in the first six months of 2009.
Corporate and Other Operations
Other Items
Interest expense increased by $1.4 million due to incremental expense associated with the issuance of $600 million in long-term debt in March of 2009, $500 million of long-term debt in December of 2009 and the adoption of the new accounting requirements related to the accounts receivable facilities. These items were partially offset by the $250.6 million tender offer repurchase of long-term debt in April 2009, the floating rate maturity in November 2009 and the term loan repayment in December 2009 coupled with lower short-term interest rates and borrowings.
6
 
Other-net increased $9.8 million for the first six months of 2010 compared to the first six months of 2009 primarily due to favorable AFUDC rates and a reclassification of interest expense related to the adoption of new accounting requirements noted above.
The effective tax rate of net operating earnings was 35.9 percent compared to 38.3 percent for the same period last year.
Income from Continuing Operations (GAAP)
As noted above, on a GAAP basis, NiSource reported net income from continuing operations for the three months ended June 30, 2010, of $28.0 million, or 10 cents per share, compared with a net loss from continuing operations of $4.0 million, or 1 cent per share, in the same period a year ago. Operating income was $139.2 million for the second quarter of 2010, compared with $111.7 million in the year-ago period.
On a GAAP basis, NiSource reported net income from continuing operations for the six months ended June 30, 2010, of $225.4 million, or 81 cents per share, compared with $155.2 million, or 57 cents per share last year. Operating income was $542.6 million for the first six months of 2010 versus $459.9 million in the year-ago period.
Refer to Schedule 1 for a complete list of the items included in 2010 and 2009 GAAP income from Continuing Operations but excluded from net operating earnings.
About NiSource
NiSource Inc. (NYSE: NI), based in Merrillville, Ind., is a Fortune 500 company engaged in natural gas transmission, storage and distribution, as well as electric generation, transmission and distribution. NiSource operating companies deliver energy to 3.8 million customers located within the high-demand energy corridor stretching from the Gulf Coast through the Midwest to New England. Information about NiSource and its subsidiaries is available via the Internet at www.nisource.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Those statements include statements regarding the intent, belief or current expectations of NiSource and its management. Although NiSource believes that its expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, it can give no assurance that its goals will be achieved. Readers are cautioned that the forward-looking statements in this news release are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks and uncertainties, and that actual results could differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: weather; fluctuations in supply and demand for energy commodities; growth opportunities for NiSource's businesses; increased competition in deregulated energy markets; the success of regulatory and commercial initiatives; dealings with third parties over whom NiSource has no control; actual operating experience of NiSource's assets; the regulatory process; regulatory and legislative changes; the impact of potential new environmental laws or regulations; the results of material litigation; changes in pension funding requirements; changes in general economic, capital and commodity market conditions; and counter-party credit risk, and the matters set forth in the "Risk Factors" section in NiSource's 2009 Form 10-K, many of which risks are beyond the control of NiSource. NiSource expressly disclaims a duty to update any of the forward-looking statements contained in this release.
7
 
8
 
9
 
10
 
11
 
12
 
13
 
14
 
2010 (in millions)
2009 (in millions)
15
 
16
 
 
18
 
19


