FILE:NI/NI-8K-20100722083055.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions.
 
 
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
NiSource Inc. ("NiSource") will host an Investor Day in New York City on Thursday, July 22, 2010, starting at 9:00 a.m. EDT and concluding at 1:00 p.m. EDT during which NiSource's senior management, including its business unit chief executive officers, will discuss the company's business profile, strategic direction and growth investment opportunities, as well as other matters of interest to the financial community. A copy of the slide presentation used during the Investor Day is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and will be available on NiSource's website, www.nisource.com. The Investor Day presentation will be available via live webcast and archived for future viewing through a link on NiSource's website, www.nisource.com.
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth in such a filing.
This Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements that are subject to various assumptions, risks and uncertainties. It should be read in conjunction with the "Forward-Looking Statements" section in NiSource's 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K and in its 2010 Forms 10-Q (which sections are incorporated by reference herein), and in conjunction with other SEC reports filed by NiSource that discuss important factors that could cause NiSource's actual results to differ materially. NiSource expressly disclaims any duty to update any forward-looking statements contained in this report.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


