FILE:NI/NI-8K-20100201070033.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions.
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2 (b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4 (c))
o
 
 
 
On February 1, 2010, NiSource Inc. (the "Company") reported its financial results for the year ended December 31, 2009. The Company's press release, dated February 1, 2010, is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
(d) Exhibits
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
Merrillville, IN 46410
801 E. 86th Avenue
February 1, 2010
.  NiSource Inc. (NYSE: NI) today announced net operating earnings (non-GAAP) of $295.3 million, or $1.07 per share, for the twelve months ended Dec. 31, 2009, compared to net operating earnings of $349.4 million, or $1.28 per share for 2008. NiSource's consolidated operating earnings (non-GAAP) for the twelve months ended Dec. 31, 2009 were $881.0 million, compared to $918.6 million in 2008.
MERRILLVILLE, Ind
On a GAAP basis, NiSource reported income from continuing operations for the twelve months ended Dec. 31, 2009, of $231.2 million, or $0.84 per share, compared with $370.6 million, or $1.35 per share in 2008. Operating income was $801.9 million for 2009 versus $918.7 million in the year-ago period. Schedules 1 and 2 of this news release contain a reconciliation of net operating earnings and operating earnings to GAAP.
For the three months ended Dec. 31, 2009, net operating earnings were $98.9 million (non-GAAP), or $0.35 per share, compared with $126.2 million, or $0.46 per share, for the same period in 2008. On a GAAP basis, income from continuing operations for the three months ended Dec. 31, 2009 was $88.5 million, or $0.32 per share, compared with $127.5 million, or $0.46 per share for the fourth quarter of 2008.
Notably, as reflected in the attached financial statements, year-over-year cash flows from operating activities increased by more than $1 billion. In addition, short-term borrowings at year end 2009 were more than $1 billion lower than at year end 2008.
"Our team's exceptional execution enabled NiSource to not only weather the storm during 2009, but to emerge as a stronger, more robust company," NiSource President and Chief Executive Officer said. "Despite unprecedented dislocations in the financial markets and a very challenging economic environment  particularly in our Northern Indiana markets  our company's underlying business performance remained strong, our liquidity position improved significantly, and we produced tangible results from our core strategy to build shareholder value and deliver long-term, sustainable earnings growth.
Robert C. Skaggs, Jr.
 
The company noted that its net operating earnings for 2009 (non-GAAP) were solidly in line with the company's guidance range of $1.00 to $1.10 per share announced early last year. The results reflect increased net revenues in NiSource's Gas Distribution and Gas Transmission & Storage businesses, as well as the effects of open market debt repurchases and lower short-term interest rates. As anticipated, these improvements were more than offset by previously disclosed increased pension expense, reduced electric demand resulting from the economic downturn, and incremental interest expense related to the issuance of long-term debt under the company's liquidity plan.
Revenue improvements help offset economic impacts
Compared with 2008, NiSource's 2009 results reflected approximately $69.9 million in additional net revenues (excluding regulatory trackers) at NiSource's Gas Distribution unit, primarily attributable to regulatory initiatives. NiSource's Gas Transmission & Storage unit also delivered $56.2 million in increased net revenues (excluding regulatory trackers) resulting from growth projects, short-term transportation and storage services, and mineral rights leasing. These improvements helped to lessen impacts from the economic recession, which resulted in reduced industrial electric demand of approximately 17 percent compared to 2008 levels.
"Through our revenue growth initiatives, as well as aggressive cost management efforts across all our businesses, we mitigated a significant portion of the impacts of the economic recession," Skaggs said. "Our ability to deliver on our financial commitments in the face of a tough economy underscores the resilience of our core regulated businesses and is a testament to the team's disciplined execution of their business plans."
Financing needs addressed through 2011, investment-grade ratings affirmed
NiSource's financing and liquidity position continued to improve during the fourth quarter of 2009, as the company's finance subsidiary, NiSource Finance Corp., issued $500 million of senior unsecured notes on Dec. 4, 2009. Proceeds from the issuance will be used by NiSource to complete the refinancing of outstanding long-term debt scheduled to mature in 2010 and 2011. The company continues to maintain its $1.5 billion revolving credit facility that extends to July 2011.
NiSource's December debt issuance followed a decision by Moody's Investors Service to affirm the company's investment grade credit rating of Baa3 and raise its outlook to stable. Moody's cited the successful resolution of a variety of rate proceedings by NiSource's gas utilities and the management of the company's liquidity position as major influencing factors for raising NiSource's outlook to stable.
"We are pleased Moody's recognized the progress we have made in strengthening our liquidity position and advancing an aggressive business agenda," Skaggs said.
"As we entered 2009, we emphasized that maintaining adequate liquidity and managing our upcoming debt maturities were key near-term priorities for NiSource, and we outlined an aggressive and comprehensive plan to effectively address those challenges. Throughout the year, our business units and our finance team did an outstanding job of executing the plan  capital expenditure levels were recalibrated, operating expenses and working capital were managed aggressively, and debt refinancings of approximately $2 billion were completed. As a result of those and other efforts, NiSource entered 2010 with a significantly stronger liquidity profile, and with its long-term financing needs addressed through 2011."
 
Core business initiatives advance
During the fourth quarter, NiSource continued to advance core elements of its long-term business strategy, centering on expansion and commercial growth in its Gas Transmission and Storage business, regulatory and commercial initiatives at its utilities, and strong financial process and expense management across the corporation.
As noted above, continued to deliver strong results during 2009 from a strategy of aligning infrastructure replacement and enhancement programs with a variety of regulatory and rate design initiatives. Highlights include:
NiSource's Gas Distribution Operations
"Our gas distribution teams continue to build on their excellent track record of execution," Skaggs noted. "This ongoing progress is a testament to our commitment to building creative and collaborative regulatory and infrastructure investment solutions that benefit customers and ensure a safe and reliable distribution system."
continue to capture growth opportunities leveraging NiSource's strategically positioned pipeline and storage assets. A number of NGT&S' new growth projects are designed to support increasing Marcellus Shale production, while the company also has continued to grow and adapt its system to provide critical transportation and storage services to markets across its high-demand service territory. Some examples include:
NiSource's Gas Transmission & Storage (NGT&S) Operations
 
"With our strategic NGT&S footprint, our system capabilities and our disciplined expansion investment strategy, NiSource is capitalizing on the unprecedented producer investment in the Marcellus region, as well as additional new storage and transportation business opportunities across our system," Skaggs said.
also continued to make progress on an aggressive regulatory and business agenda, despite pressures caused by the economic downturn.
NiSource's Electric Operations
"Without question, 2009 was a challenging year for NIPSCO," Skaggs noted. "The company's earnings were impacted by a significant increase in pension expense, as well as materially lower industrial demand as a result of the economic recession. Looking forward, we have a solid regulatory and business plan for 2010 to restore NIPSCO's earnings base and position it to grow in the future. Executing that plan is a key priority for NiSource this year."
Strategic focus continues in 2010
Looking forward to 2010, Skaggs said NiSource will continue to aggressively focus on its core business strategy of synchronizing infrastructure investment with appropriate regulatory and commercial activities.
"Our key business priorities for this year are to advance the next wave of Marcellus Shale growth projects in our NGT&S business, continue to execute our infrastructure replacement programs and related regulatory initiatives in the Gas Distribution segment, and complete the NIPSCO repositioning process," Skaggs said.
 
In terms of financial performance, Skaggs said NiSource expects its earnings to grow by 3 to 5 percent on a long-term basis. For 2010, net operating earnings (non-GAAP) are projected to fall within a range of $1.10 to $1.20 per share. There will likely be differences between net operating earnings and GAAP earnings for matters including, but not limited to, weather, restructuring costs and accounting changes. NiSource is not able to estimate the impact of such items on GAAP earnings and, as such, is not providing earnings guidance on a GAAP basis.
Skaggs said that the company's outlook assumes a gradual and modest pace of economic recovery across the markets served by its utilities, continuing the trend experienced during the latter half of 2009. He also indicated that, in light of NiSource's improved liquidity position and its deep inventory of investment opportunities, the company is projecting a capital expenditure level of approximately $900 million for 2010, an increase of approximately $100 million, or 12.5 percent, over its 2009 program.
"Although the landscape we face today is much more stable, and less treacherous, than the one we encountered a year ago, 2010 will present its share of challenges," Skaggs said. "As we face those challenges and continue the basic work of building and growing NiSource, I am convinced we do so as a stronger company  one with a business plan that is compelling, balanced and tested."
Full Year 2009 Operating Earnings  Segment Results (non-GAAP)
NiSource's consolidated operating earnings (non-GAAP) for the year ended Dec. 31, 2009, were $881.0 million, compared to $918.6 million in 2008. Refer to Schedule 2 for the items included in 2009 and 2008 GAAP operating income but excluded from operating earnings.
Operating earnings for NiSource's business segments for the full year ended Dec. 31, 2009 are discussed below.
reported operating earnings of $329.3 million, slightly above $328.2 million of operating earnings in 2008. As noted above, net revenues, excluding the impact of regulatory and tax trackers, increased $69.9 million, primarily attributable to regulatory and service programs including impacts from rate cases at various utilities, partially offset by decreased customer usage and lower off-system sales revenues.
Gas Distribution Operations
Operating expenses, excluding trackers, were $68.8 million higher than the comparable period, reflecting higher employee and administrative costs, depreciation costs and uncollectible accounts. The higher employee and administrative costs were primarily due to increases in pension expense of $31.8 million, net of the deferral of pension costs for Columbia Gas of Ohio.
reported operating earnings of $408.8 million versus operating earnings of $376.7 million in 2008. The increase resulted primarily from increased net revenues of $56.2 million, excluding regulatory trackers, primarily attributable to increases in firm capacity reservation fees from growth projects such as the Eastern Market Expansion and the Ohio Storage Expansion, as well as for new Appalachian supply contracts, increases in shorter term transportation and storage services, and mineral rights leasing revenues.
Gas Transmission and Storage Operations
Equity earnings increased by $3.7 million primarily resulting from increased earnings from Millennium Pipeline in its first full year of service, despite an $8.1 million reduction in equity earnings resulting from interest rate hedges related to Millennium's decision to delay permanent financing until 2010.
Operating expenses increased by $27.8 million, excluding trackers, due to higher capacity lease costs, employee and administrative costs, outside services, maintenance costs, and environmental expenses. In addition, 2008 operating expenses were favorably impacted by the reduction of legal reserves.
 
reported operating earnings of $162.4 million for 2009, compared with $220.2 million in 2008. Lower net revenues and higher operating expenses both contributed to the lower operating earnings. Excluding regulatory trackers, net revenue decreased by $17.1 million primarily from lower industrial usage, off-system sales, emission allowance sales and Sugar Creek revenues from capacity sales into the PJM Interconnection, partially offset by lower non-recoverable purchased power costs.
Electric Operations
Operating expenses increased by $40.7 million, excluding trackers, due primarily to higher pension expense of $42.6 million, other employee and administrative costs, and higher electric generation and maintenance expenses, partially offset by lower property taxes, environmental expenses and depreciation. The decrease in depreciation expense is due primarily to the impact of an $8.3 million adjustment recorded by NIPSCO during the second quarter of 2008.
reported an operating earnings loss of $4.6 million for 2009 compared to operating earnings of $1.6 million for 2008. Last year's operating earnings results include earnings from the unregulated natural gas marketing business. Operating earnings this year no longer include results from that business. See discussion below under Discontinued Operations (GAAP). Other Operation's operating earnings for 2009 include results from the NiSource Development companies such as low income housing properties and Lake Erie Land, NiSource Energy Technology, Primary Energy, and Columbia Network Services.
Other Operations
Other Items
Interest expense increased by $24.1 million due to incremental interest expense associated with the issuance of $700 million of long-term debt in May of 2008, $600 million of long-term debt in March of 2009 and the $385 million two-year term loan issued in April of 2009, partially offset by the open market debt repurchase of $100 million in January 2009, the $250.6 million tender offer debt repurchase in April 2009 and lower short-term interest rates. Other-net was a loss of $1.4 million in 2009 compared to income of $0.9 million for 2008 as a result of lower interest income. The effective tax rate of net operating earnings was 38.6 percent compared to 35.8 percent for the same period last year. The tax rate is higher in 2009 versus last year due to deferred income tax adjustments related primarily to state income tax apportionment changes and an increase in tax expense related to AFUDC equity.
Fourth Quarter 2009 Operating Earnings  Segment Results (non-GAAP)
NiSource's consolidated fourth-quarter 2009 operating earnings (non-GAAP) were $258.5 million, compared to $297.9 million for the same period in 2008. Refer to Schedule 2 for the items included in 2009 and 2008 GAAP operating income but excluded from operating earnings.
Operating earnings for NiSource's business segments for the fourth quarter ended Dec. 31, 2009, are discussed below.
reported operating earnings of $114.5 million versus operating earnings of $134.6 million in the fourth quarter of 2008. Net revenues, excluding the impact of regulatory and tax trackers, increased $3.9 million, primarily attributable to regulatory and service programs including impacts from rate cases at various utilities, partially offset by lower customer usage.
Gas Distribution Operations
Operating expenses, excluding trackers, were $24.0 million higher than the comparable period, reflecting an increase in employee and administrative costs, which includes higher pension expense, along with higher uncollectible receivables and higher depreciation costs. After deferring pension costs for Columbia Gas of Ohio, pension expense increased $7.9 million for Gas Distribution Operations for the quarter.
 
reported operating earnings of $116.6 million, essentially flat with operating earnings of $116.5 million in the fourth quarter of 2008. Net revenues, excluding the impact of regulatory and tax trackers, increased $19.2 million, primarily attributable to increases in firm capacity reservation fees for growth projects including the Eastern Market Expansion and the Ohio Storage Expansion, as well as for new Appalachian supply contracts, and increased shorter term transportation and storage services.
Gas Transmission and Storage Operations
Equity earnings increased by $1.1 million due to increased earnings from Millennium.
Operating expenses increased $20.2 million, excluding trackers, due primarily to higher maintenance costs, including expenditures for the Integrity Management Program. In addition, 2008 operating expenses were favorably impacted by the reduction of legal reserves.
reported operating earnings of $35.6 million versus operating earnings of $47.9 million from the same quarter last year. Net revenues, excluding regulatory trackers, were $0.3 million lower than last year. Increased commercial and industrial usage was more than offset by lower Sugar Creek revenues from capacity sales into the PJM Interconnection and lower sales of emission allowances.
Electric Operations
Operating expenses increased by $12.0 million, excluding trackers, due primarily to higher pension expense of $10.8 million and other employee and administrative expenses.
reported an operating earnings loss of $1.7 million in the fourth quarter of 2009, compared with operating earnings of $0.8 million in the prior year. Last year's operating results include earnings from the unregulated natural gas marketing business. Operating earnings this year no longer include results from that business. See discussion below under Discontinued Operations (GAAP). Other Operation's operating earnings for 2009 include results from the NiSource Development companies such as low income housing properties and Lake Erie Land, NiSource Energy Technology, Primary Energy, and Columbia Network Services.
Other Operations
Other Items
Interest expense decreased by $2.7 million in the fourth quarter of 2009 compared to the same period last year due to lower short-term borrowings and short-term interest rates coupled with the debt repurchases during 2009, partially offset by the new debt issuances during 2009. Other-net was $0.8 million compared to a loss of $2.9 million last year due to increased AFUDC equity earnings, partially offset by lower interest income. The effective tax rate of net operating earnings for the fourth quarter of 2009 was 38.5 percent compared to 34.8 percent for the same period last year. The tax rate is higher in 2009 versus last year due to deferred income tax adjustments related primarily to state income tax apportionment changes.
Income from Continuing Operations (GAAP)
On a GAAP basis, NiSource reported income from continuing operations for the twelve months ended Dec. 31, 2009, of $231.2 million, or $0.84 per share, compared with $370.6 million, or $1.35 per share in 2008.
On a GAAP basis, income from continuing operations for the three months ended Dec. 31, 2009 was $88.5 million, or $0.32 per share, compared with $127.5 million, or $0.46 per share for the fourth quarter of 2008.
 
Discontinued Operations
During the second and third quarters of 2009, NiSource was pursuing the sale of its unregulated natural gas marketing business. In both periods, net assets for the business were accounted for as assets and liabilities held for sale and discontinued operations, and as such, the results of operations and cash flows were classified as discontinued operations for all periods presented. In the fourth quarter, it was determined the sale of NiSource's unregulated natural gas marketing business was no longer probable. As such, the assets and liabilities were reclassified to assets held and used at Dec. 31, 2009, and the results of the business are now included within continuing operations (GAAP).
In the first quarter of 2008, NiSource began accounting for the operations of Northern Utilities, Granite State Gas and Whiting Clean Energy as discontinued operations. All three businesses were disposed of during 2008. For the twelve months ended Dec. 31, 2008, NiSource recorded an after-tax loss of $108.1 million ($0.39 per share) for the disposition of these operations. All results of operations for these businesses are classified as net income from discontinued operations. In addition, NiSource recorded an accrual related to the Tawney lawsuit in West Virginia which was settled during the fourth quarter of 2008.
About NiSource
NiSource Inc. (NYSE: NI), based in Merrillville, Ind., is a Fortune 500 company engaged in natural gas transmission, storage and distribution, as well as electric generation, transmission and distribution. NiSource operating companies deliver energy to 3.7 million customers located within the high-demand energy corridor stretching from the Gulf Coast through the Midwest to New England. Information about NiSource and its subsidiaries is available via the Internet at . NI-F
www.nisource.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Those statements include statements regarding the intent, belief or current expectations of NiSource and its management. Although NiSource believes that its expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, it can give no assurance that its goals will be achieved. Readers are cautioned that the forward-looking statements in this presentation are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks and uncertainties, and that actual results could differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: weather; fluctuations in supply and demand for energy commodities; growth opportunities for NiSource's businesses; increased competition in deregulated energy markets; the success of regulatory and commercial initiatives; dealings with third parties over whom NiSource has no control; the effectiveness of NiSource's restructured outsourcing agreement; actual operating experience of NiSource's assets; the regulatory process; regulatory and legislative changes; the impact of potential new environmental laws or regulations; the results of material litigation; changes in pension funding requirements; changes in general economic, capital and commodity market conditions; and counterparty credit risk, many of which are risks beyond the control of NiSource. In addition, the relative contributions to profitability by each segment, and the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements relating thereto, may change over time. NiSource expressly disclaims a duty to update any of the forward-looking statements contained in this release.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2009 (in millions)
2008 (in millions)
 
2009 (in millions)
2008 (in millions)
 
 
 
 


