FILE:NI/NI-8K-20110726170239.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions.
 
 
 
.
Item 5.02
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Effective July 26, 2011, the NiSource Inc. (the "Company") Board of Directors appointed Mr. Sigmund L. Cornelius to the Company's Board of Directors. It is expected that Mr. Cornelius will serve on the following Committees: Audit, Corporate Governance, and Finance. Mr. Cornelius will be compensated for his service as a director under the Company's compensation plans for non-employee directors which are set forth generally on pages 12-13 of the Company's 2011 Proxy Statement as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 1, 2011, including participating in the Company's 2010 Omnibus Incentive Plan, under which he received a pro-rated annual award of restricted stock units upon his appointment. Subject to the specific terms and conditions of the restricted stock unit award agreement, the restricted stock units awarded to Mr. Cornelius will vest and be payable to him, on the last day of his initial term.
A copy of the press release announcing the appointment of Mr. Cornelius and including information regarding his background and experience is attached hereto as exhibit 99.1.
.
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)  Exhibits
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
NEWS
NiSource
Merrillville, IN 46410
801 E. 86th Avenue
July 26, 2011
FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
NiSource Elects Sigmund L. Cornelius to Board of Directors
.,  The NiSource Inc. (NYSE: NI) Board of Directors has elected former ConocoPhillips executive to become a member of the NiSource board, effective July 26, 2011.
MERRILLVILLE, Ind
Sigmund L. Cornelius
Cornelius, 56, retired in January 2011 from ConocoPhillips, where he was senior vice president, finance, and chief financial officer from 2008 to 2010. Prior to that, he served as senior vice president, planning, strategy and corporate affairs from 2007 to 2008, having previously served as president, exploration and production-lower 48 from 2006 to 2007 and president, global gas from 2004 to 2006. Cornelius joined ConocoPhillips predecessor Conoco Inc. in 1980. He also serves on the boards of directors of the Parallel Energy Trust, USEC and Carbo Ceramics Inc.
"We are very pleased to welcome Sig to the NiSource board of directors," , chairman of the NiSource board of directors, said. "Our board is comprised of an experienced, engaged and diverse group of individuals, and I am confident Sig's addition will help us build on that strength. In particular, as NiSource executes on its long-term, investment-driven growth strategy, I believe we will benefit from Sig's extensive experience at a large, diversified energy company."
Ian M. Rolland
NiSource Inc. (NYSE: NI), based in Merrillville, Ind., is a Fortune 500 company engaged in natural gas transmission, storage and distribution, as well as electric generation, transmission and distribution. NiSource operating companies deliver energy to 3.8 million customers located within the high-demand energy corridor stretching from the Gulf Coast through the Midwest to New England. Information about NiSource and its subsidiaries is available via the Internet at . NI-F
About NiSource
www.nisource.com
This news release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities laws. Such statements include those regarding the execution by NiSource of its long-term, investment-driven growth strategy. Although NiSource believes that its expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, it can give no assurance that its goals will be achieved. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements include the matters set forth in the and "" sections of NiSource's 2010 Form 10-K and in subsequent reports on Form 10-Q, many of which risks are beyond the control of NiSource.
Forward-Looking Statements
"
Note regarding forward-looking statements"
Risk Factors


