FILE:NI/NI-8K-20111028063053.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 28, 2011, NiSource Inc. (the "Company") reported its financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2011. The Company's press release, dated October 28, 2011, is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
October 28, 2011
FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
 
NiSource Reports Third Quarter Results
 
 
 
 NiSource Inc. (NYSE: NI) today announced net operating earnings from continuing operations (non-GAAP) of $33.1 million, or $0.11 per share for the three months ended Sept. 30, 2011, compared to $10.3 million, or $0.04 per share for the third quarter of 2010. Operating earnings for the quarter (non-GAAP) were $142.0 million compared to $109.9 million for the same period in 2010.
MERRILLVILLE, Ind.
On a GAAP basis, NiSource reported income from continuing operations for the three months ended Sept. 30, 2011, of $36.3 million, or $0.13 per share, compared with $33.4 million, or $0.12 per share in the same period a year ago. Operating income was $147.5 million for the third quarter of 2011 compared with $123.3 million in the year-ago period. Schedules 1 and 2 of this news release contain a reconciliation of net operating earnings and operating earnings to GAAP.
"NiSource's balanced, investment-driven business strategy continues to deliver solid results in line with our 2011 earnings outlook and consistent with our long-term growth plan," NiSource President and Chief Executive Officer said. "Despite sluggish economic conditions, NiSource teams continue to execute on fundamental initiatives across each segment of our business. These accomplishments are key to our commitments to enhance customer service, modernize our energy infrastructure, drive long-term, sustainable earnings growth and increase shareholder value."
Robert C. Skaggs Jr.
Based on year-to-date financial and operational performance, Skaggs said that NiSource is on track to achieve net operating earnings from continuing operations at the upper half of its 2011 guidance range of $1.25 to $1.35 per share (non-GAAP). NiSource also is on pace to deliver double-digit shareholder returns for the third consecutive year, significantly outperforming the utility indices and broader markets.
 
Skaggs highlighted several key recent accomplishments in executing the company's business strategy:
Continued NIPSCO environmental, customer service and regulatory achievements
NiSource's (NIPSCO) electric business continues to advance a broad business agenda designed to deliver exceptional customer service, enhance operational and environmental performance, and establish a robust platform for ongoing earnings growth.
Northern Indiana Public Service Company's
 
 
 
"While the pending electric rate case settlement is unquestionably a watershed event for NIPSCO, its customers and other stakeholders, the NIPSCO team is also making steady progress on a wide array of customer service, environmental, and operational initiatives," Skaggs said. "Taken together, these efforts are helping customers manage energy use, providing long-term environmental and economic development benefits for northern Indiana, and supporting stable and sustainable earnings growth."
Leveraging gas transmission, storage and midstream growth opportunities
also continued to make progress on key strategies to enhance system reliability, develop new growth projects, and leverage the company's strategic footprint in emerging shale gas production areas.
NiSource Gas Transmission & Storage (NGT&S)
 
 
 
 
"Our NGT&S team is proceeding on a measured, thoughtful path to leverage NiSource's unique position in the Marcellus and Utica shale production regions," Skaggs said. "This approach ensures that we pursue complementary projects that capitalize on the near-term potential of this important business opportunity, while also enhancing the long-term value of our pipeline and storage assets for our customers and shareholders."
Progress also continues on the regulatory front. On Sept. 9, filed a settlement with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to resolve the company's 2010 base rate case  its first in 14 years. The settlement was certified to the Commission on Oct. 4, and is pending approval.
Columbia Gulf Transmission
Executing on gas utility infrastructure, customer and regulatory programs
During the third quarter, continued to successfully execute on its strategy of combining long-term infrastructure modernization programs with complementary customer programs and regulatory initiatives.
NiSource Gas Distribution
 
 
 
 
"The hallmark of our gas distribution strategy is to work collaboratively with all stakeholders to deliver a broad array of core infrastructure, customer and regulatory initiatives, and the team's execution of that strategy continues to be exceptional," Skaggs noted. "In addition to enhancing our ability to provide safe, reliable and responsive service to our customers, these efforts continue to produce predictable, long-term earnings growth."
 
Capital investments and financial flexibility provide foundation for ongoing growth
A disciplined, well-executed financial strategy is a key element of NiSource's commitment to meet customer needs and deliver long-term, investment-driven earnings growth. NiSource continues to maintain significant financial flexibility to fund its growing capital investment program, which for 2011 is expected to be approximately $1.1 billion. At the end of the third quarter, NiSource maintained in excess of $460 million in net available liquidity.
NiSource continues to monitor the historically attractive debt capital market environment for opportunities to reduce financing costs and extend its maturity profile. The company is actively evaluating a number of financing options that could be executed as early as the fourth quarter of this year.
Third Quarter 2011 Operating Earnings  Segment Results (non-GAAP)
NiSource's consolidated operating earnings (non-GAAP) for the quarter ended Sept. 30, 2011, were $142.0 million, compared to $109.9 million in the third quarter of 2010. Refer to Schedule 2 for the items included in 2011 and 2010 GAAP operating income but excluded from operating earnings.
Operating earnings for NiSource's business segments for the quarter ended Sept. 30, 2011, are discussed below.
reported operating earnings for the current quarter of $8.0 million compared to an operating earnings loss of $40.7 million in the third quarter of 2010. Net revenues, excluding the impact of trackers, increased by $24.0 million, primarily attributable to increased residential and commercial margins due to NIPSCO's change from a volumetric-based rate design to one with a higher fixed charge. The new rate design provides a greater proportion of recovery through the monthly fixed customer charge for certain customer classes. Additionally, there was an increase in other regulatory and service programs largely due to new rates under Columbia Gas of Ohio's approved infrastructure replacement program and rate cases at other utilities.
NiSource Gas Distribution
Operating expenses, excluding trackers, were $24.7 million lower than the comparable 2010 period primarily as a result of lower depreciation costs due to reduced depreciation rates at NIPSCO.
reported operating earnings for the current quarter of $68.2 million compared to $76.4 million in the third quarter of 2010. Net revenues, excluding the impact of trackers, increased by $10.8 million, primarily attributable to an increase in demand margin revenue as a result of growth projects placed into service since the third quarter of 2010 and the impact of new Columbia Gulf rates placed into effect May 1, 2011, subject to refund.
NiSource Gas Transmission and Storage
Operating expenses, excluding the impact of trackers, increased $19.0 million from the comparable 2010 period primarily due to higher environmental costs, increased employee and administrative expenses and separation costs. The increased environmental costs, which amounted to $11.2 million, relate to an expense for the portion of certain remediation activities that are not recoverable from customers under the terms of a prior rate settlement.
Equity earnings remained flat due to 2010 hedge ineffectiveness charges for Millennium Pipeline, offset by Millennium's higher current year interest costs resulting from its Aug. 2010 debt refinancing.
 
reported operating earnings for the current quarter of $72.9 million compared to $80.0 million in the third quarter of 2010. Net revenues, excluding the impact of trackers, decreased by $4.3 million primarily due to lower environmental cost recovery levels during the quarter. Additionally, there was a decrease in residential and commercial margins as well as lower off-system sales. These decreases were partially offset by increased industrial usage and margins as a result of improved economic conditions.
NiSource Electric
Operating expenses, excluding the impact of trackers, increased by $2.8 million, primarily attributable to increased rate case costs and higher employee and administrative expenses. These increases were partially offset by a one-time inventory impairment recorded in the prior period.
reported an operating earnings loss of $7.1 million for the current quarter compared to an operating earnings loss of $5.8 million in the third quarter of 2010.
Corporate and Other
Other Items
Interest expense decreased by $1.9 million due to a long-term debt maturity in Nov. 2010 and a Dec. 2010 repurchase of long-term debt. The benefits were partially offset by incremental interest expense associated with a swap maturity in Nov. 2010, the issuance of long-term debt in June 2011 and Dec. 2010, and higher average short-term borrowings and rates.
Other-net reflected income of $1.6 million in 2011 compared to income of $2.1 million in 2010.
The effective tax rate of net operating earnings was 30.9 percent compared to 28.5 percent for the same period last year.
Nine-Month Period 2011 Operating Earnings  Segment Results (non-GAAP)
NiSource's consolidated operating earnings (non-GAAP) for the nine months ended Sept. 30, 2011, were $699.2 million, compared to $669.0 million for the same period in 2010. Refer to Schedule 2 for the items included in 2011 and 2010 GAAP operating income but excluded from operating earnings.
Operating earnings for NiSource's business segments for the nine months ended Sept. 30, 2011, are discussed below.
reported operating earnings of $293.8 million compared to $229.9 million reported for the nine months ended Sept. 30, 2010. Net revenues, excluding the impact of regulatory trackers, increased $16.1 million primarily attributable to an increase in other regulatory and service programs largely due to new rates under Columbia Gas of Ohio's approved infrastructure replacement program and rate cases at other utilities. Additionally, there was an increase in residential and commercial margins due to NIPSCO's change from a volumetric-based rate design to one with a higher fixed charge. The new rate design provides a greater proportion of recovery through the monthly fixed customer charge for certain customer classes. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in off-system sales and lower industrial margins.
NiSource Gas Distribution
Operating expenses, excluding the impact of trackers, were $47.8 million lower than the comparable period in the prior year primarily due to lower depreciation costs as a result of reduced depreciation rates at NIPSCO and decreased uncollectible accounts. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in employee and administrative costs and higher outside service costs.
 
reported operating earnings of $271.3 million versus operating earnings of $277.2 million for the nine months ended Sept. 30, 2010. Net revenues, excluding trackers, increased $24.7 million primarily attributable to an increase in demand margin revenue as a result of growth projects placed into service since the third quarter of 2010 and the impact of new Columbia Gulf rates placed into effect on May 1, 2011, subject to refund. These increases were partially offset by the recognition of revenue in the prior year related to a previously deferred gain for native gas and fees received from a contract buyout. Additionally, there was a decrease in short-term transportation and storage services.
NiSource Gas Transmission and Storage
Operating expenses, excluding trackers, increased by $28.1 million primarily due to higher environmental costs, increased employee and administrative expenses, and separation costs.
Equity earnings decreased by $2.5 million primarily from Millennium Pipeline's higher interest costs resulting from the Aug. 2010 debt refinancing partially offset by the non-recurrence of 2010 hedge ineffectiveness charges at Millennium.
reported operating earnings of $152.1 million for the nine months ended Sept. 30, 2011, compared with operating earnings of $174.5 million for the prior year period. Net revenues, excluding trackers, increased by $5.0 million primarily due to increased industrial usage and margins as a result of improved economic conditions and lower revenue credits partially offset by decreased residential and commercial margins and lower environmental cost recovery rates.
NiSource Electric
Operating expenses, excluding trackers, increased by $27.4 million due primarily to an increase in employee and administrative expenses, higher electric generation costs as a result of an increase in outage duration, a regulatory adjustment, an increase in depreciation and higher rate case costs.
reported an operating earnings loss of $18.0 million for the nine months ended Sept. 30, 2011, compared to an operating earnings loss of $12.6 million for the nine months ended Sept. 30, 2010.
Corporate and Other
Other Items
Interest expense decreased by $14.9 million due to a long-term debt maturity in Nov. 2010 and a Dec. 2010 repurchase of long-term debt. The benefits were partially offset by incremental interest expense associated with a swap maturity in Nov. 2010, the issuance of long-term debt in June 2011 and Dec. 2010, and higher average short-term borrowings and rates.
Other-net reflected income of $5.5 million in 2011 compared to income of $7.3 million in 2010.
The effective tax rate of net operating earnings was 33.9 percent compared to 35.6 percent for the same period last year.
 
Income from Continuing Operations (GAAP)
As noted above, on a GAAP basis, NiSource reported net income from continuing operations for the three months ended Sept. 30, 2011, of $36.3 million, or $0.13 per share, compared with $33.4 million, or $0.12 per share, in the same period a year ago. Operating income was $147.5 million for the third quarter of 2011, compared with $123.3 million in the year-ago period.
On a GAAP basis, NiSource reported net income from continuing operations for the nine months ended Sept. 30, 2011, of $280.6 million, or $1.00 per share, compared with $258.8 million, or $0.93 per share last year. Operating income was $710.0 million for the nine months ended Sept. 30, 2011 versus $665.9 million in the year-ago period.
Refer to Schedule 1 for a complete list of the items included in 2011 and 2010 GAAP income from Continuing Operations but excluded from net operating earnings.
About NiSource
NiSource Inc. (NYSE: NI), based in Merrillville, Ind., is a Fortune 500 company engaged in natural gas transmission, storage and distribution, as well as electric generation, transmission and distribution. NiSource operating companies deliver energy to 3.8 million customers located within the high-demand energy corridor stretching from the Gulf Coast through the Midwest to New England. Information about NiSource and its subsidiaries is available via the Internet at www.nisource.com. NI-F
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Those statements include statements regarding the intent, belief or current expectations of NiSource and its management. Although NiSource believes that its expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, it can give no assurance that its goals will be achieved. Readers are cautioned that the forward-looking statements in this news release are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks and uncertainties, and that actual results could differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: weather; fluctuations in supply and demand for energy commodities; growth opportunities for NiSource's businesses; increased competition in deregulated energy markets; the success of regulatory and commercial initiatives; dealings with third parties over whom NiSource has no control; actual operating experience of NiSource's assets; the regulatory process; regulatory and legislative changes; the impact of potential new environmental laws or regulations; the results of material litigation; changes in pension funding requirements; changes in general economic, capital and commodity market conditions; and counter-party credit risk, and the matters set forth in the "Risk Factors" section in NiSource's 2010 Form 10-K and subsequent reports on Form 10-Q, many of which risks are beyond the control of NiSource. NiSource expressly disclaims a duty to update any of the forward-looking statements contained in this release.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


