FILE:NI/NI-8K-20110513151559.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions.
 
 
 
On May 10, 2011, NiSource Inc. (the "Company") held its Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the "Annual Meeting"). At the Annual Meeting, 229,146,676 shares of common stock, par value $.01, or approximately 81.96% of the 279,580,251 shares of common stock outstanding as of the record date, were present in person or by proxy. Set forth below are the matters acted upon by Company stockholders at the Annual Meeting as described the Company's Proxy Statement filed on April 1, 2011, and the final voting results on each such matter.
The number of votes cast for and against each nominee, as well as the number of abstentions and broker non-votes, were as follows:
Proposal I: Election of Directors.
Each nominee, having received more votes in favor of his or her election than against election, was elected.
 
The number of votes cast for and against this matter, as well as the number of abstentions, were as follows:
Proposal II: Ratification of Independent Registered Public Accountants.
There were no broker non-votes as to Proposal II.
Proposal II, having received the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the shares of common stock present and entitled to vote at the Annual Meeting, was approved.
The number of votes cast for and against this matter, as well as the number of abstentions and broker non-votes, were as follows:
Proposal III: Advisory Vote on Executive Compensation.
There were 29,417,448 broker non-votes as to Proposal III.
Proposal III, having received the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the shares of common stock present and entitled to vote at the Annual Meeting, was approved.
The number of votes cast in favor of the annual, every 2 years and every 3 years alternatives, as well as the number of abstentions and broker non-votes, were as follows:
Proposal IV: Advisory Vote on the Frequency of the Advisory Vote on Executive Compensation.
There were 29,417,448 broker non-votes as to Proposal IV.
The Annual alternative in Proposal IV, having received the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the shares of common stock present and entitled to vote at the Annual Meeting, was adopted as the stockholders' preference. The Company intends to include a stockholder vote annually on the compensation of executives in its proxy materials until the next required vote on the frequency of stockholder votes on the compensation of executives.
 
The number of votes cast for and against this matter, as well as the number of abstentions and broker non-votes, were as follows:
Proposal V: Stockholder Proposal regarding Stockholder Action by Written Consent.
There were 29,417,448 broker non-votes as to Proposal V.
Proposal V, having failed to receive the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the shares of common stock present and entitled to vote at the Annual Meeting, was not approved.
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


