FILE:NI/NI-8K-20120501063254.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 1, 2012, NiSource Inc. (the "Company") reported its financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2012. The Company's press release, dated May 1, 2012, is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
801 E. 86th Avenue
Merrillville, IN 46410
May 1, 2012
FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
 
NiSource Reports First Quarter 2012 Earnings
 
 
 
 NiSource Inc. (NYSE: NI) today announced net operating earnings from continuing operations (non-GAAP) of $214.5 million, or $0.76 cents per share for the three months ended March 31, 2012, compared to $206.6 million, or $0.74 cents per share for the first quarter of 2011. Operating earnings for the quarter (non-GAAP) were $435.5 million compared to $402.1 million for the same period in 2011.
MERRILLVILLE, Ind.
On a GAAP basis, NiSource reported income from continuing operations for the three months ended March 31, 2012, of $193.5 million, or $0.68 cents per share, compared with $209.1 million, or $0.75 cents per share in the same period a year ago. Operating income was $399.4 million for the first quarter of 2012, compared with $406.4 million in the year-ago period. Schedules 1 and 2 of this news release contain a reconciliation of net operating earnings and operating earnings to GAAP.
"Following a successful 2011, NiSource teams are continuing to execute on a robust combination of investment-driven growth, modernization and regulatory initiatives," President and Chief Executive Officer said. "This well-established and customer-focused business strategy generated first quarter results squarely in line with our expectations, as well as our 2012 earnings outlook."
Robert C. Skaggs, Jr.
Progress on midstream and pipeline investment opportunities
(NGT&S) continues to develop and execute investment opportunities in emerging and existing markets. The company is active in midstream, mineral leasing and traditional pipeline projects, particularly in areas within the company's strategic footprint in the Utica and Marcellus shale production areas.
NiSource Gas Transmission & Storage
 
 
 
 
 
 
"The NGT&S Team has hit the ground running in the first quarter," Skaggs said. "With a diverse mix of new and ongoing projects, we remain focused on enhancing the long-term value of our assets by executing on exciting growth opportunities taking shape in both supply and demand markets. The team also is actively pursuing a collaborative, long-term commitment to system modernization that offers numerous customer benefits, while at the same time supporting ongoing rate base and earnings growth."
 
Customer service and reliability initiatives in Indiana
(NIPSCO) continues to advance initiatives designed to improve customer services and reliability, as well as enhance the region's environmental and economic sustainability.
Northern Indiana Public Service Company
 
 
 
 
"Our NIPSCO team remains keenly focused on continuously improving customer service and reliability, while investing in long-term economic and environmental sustainability across our Indiana service territory," said Skaggs. "The team made significant strides in 2011, and I'm confident NIPSCO is positioned to deliver even greater customer, community and shareholder value this year."
Modernizing natural gas distribution infrastructure and services
(NGD) companies continue to deliver strong results from their strategy of aligning long-term infrastructure replacement and enhancement programs with a variety of complementary customer programs and rate-design initiatives.
NiSource Gas Distribution
 
 
 
 
"Our portfolio of gas distribution companies continues to deliver innovative programs to customers and solid financial performance for shareholders," Skaggs said. "Through a combination of regulatory and infrastructure strategies, we have positioned this business to deliver long-term earnings growth, while providing our customers with safe, reliable and high-quality service."
Affirming earnings guidance, capital investment and dividend growth consideration
Skaggs noted that NiSource remains on track to deliver net operating earnings in line with its full-year outlook, which for 2012 is $1.40 to $1.50 per share (non-GAAP*). The company also is proceeding with a robust 2012 capital investment program of approximately $1.4 billion.
NiSource also continues to maintain its core financial commitments, including stable, investment grade credit ratings and a secure, attractive dividend.
During the first quarter, Standard & Poor's reaffirmed NiSource's BBB- /stable credit rating. Comparable ratings for the company were reaffirmed by Moody's Investors Services and Fitch Ratings in the fourth quarter of 2011.
First Quarter 2012 Operating Earnings  Segment Results (non-GAAP)
NiSource's consolidated operating earnings (non-GAAP) for the quarter ended March 31, 2012, were $435.5 million, compared to $402.1 million in the first quarter of 2011. Refer to Schedule 2 for the items included in 2012 and 2011 GAAP operating income but excluded from operating earnings.
Operating earnings for NiSource's business segments for the quarter ended March 31, 2012, are discussed below.
reported operating earnings for the current quarter of $246.5 million compared to $237.0 million in the first quarter of 2011. Net revenues, excluding the impact of trackers, increased by $11.4 million primarily attributable to increases in regulatory and service programs, including the impact of the CPA rate case and the implementation of new rates under Columbia Gas of Ohio's approved infrastructure replacement program.
NiSource Gas Distribution
Operating expenses, excluding trackers, were $1.9 million higher than the comparable 2011 period as a result of an increase in depreciation costs due to an increase in capital expenditures. This increase was partially offset by a decrease in employee and administrative expenses, primarily pension costs.
As reflected in the Segment Volumes and Statistical Data schedule, deliveries to residential and commercial customers during the quarter were reduced due to unseasonably mild weather, which was 23 percent warmer than normal. By contrast, industrial deliveries increased by approximately 10 percent compared to the first quarter of 2011, reflecting the impact of low natural gas prices on industrial usage in our markets.
 
reported operating earnings for the current quarter of $138.6 million compared to $118.4 million in the first quarter of 2011. Net revenues, excluding the impact of trackers, increased by $16.5 million, primarily attributable to an increase in demand margin revenue as a result of growth projects and the impact of the rate case at Columbia Gulf, partially offset by a decrease in commodity margin revenue due to decreased throughput as a result of warmer weather.
NiSource Gas Transmission and Storage
Operating expenses, excluding the impact of trackers, increased $1.0 million from the comparable 2011 period primarily due to increased other taxes, partially offset by lower outside service costs and decreased employee and administrative expenses, largely pension costs.
Equity earnings increased $4.7 million primarily from increased earnings at Millennium.
reported operating earnings for the current quarter of $48.5 million compared to $49.3 million in the first quarter of 2011. Net revenues, excluding the impact of trackers, increased by $29.1 million primarily due to increased industrial, commercial and residential margins mainly as a result of the implementation of the electric rate case. Additionally, there were lower revenue credits in the current period as a result of the electric rate case. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in environmental cost recovery due to the plant investment eligible for recovery being reset to zero as a result of the electric rate case.
NiSource Electric
Operating expenses increased by $29.9 million, excluding trackers, primarily attributable to an increase in employee and administrative expenses, higher electric generation costs, and an increase in Midwest Independent Transmission System Operator (MISO) fees. Additionally, there was an increase in depreciation costs primarily related to the Sugar Creek facility that is no longer being deferred as a result of the electric rate case.
reported operating earnings of $1.9 million for the current quarter compared to a loss of $2.6 million in the first quarter of 2011.
Corporate and Other
Other Items
Interest expense increased by $13.5 million due to the issuance of long-term debt in November 2011 and June 2011, the expiration of deferred interest costs related to Sugar Creek as a result of the electric rate case, and higher short-term borrowings and rates. These increases were partially offset by the repurchase of long-term debt in December 2011.
Other-net income of $1.0 million was recorded in 2012 compared to $3.3 million in 2011.
The effective tax rate of net operating earnings was 35.6 percent compared to 34.5 percent for the same period last year.
Income from Continuing Operations (GAAP)
On a GAAP basis, NiSource reported income from continuing operations for the three months ended March 31, 2012, of $193.5 million, or $0.68 per share, compared with $209.1 million, or $0.75 per share for the comparable period in 2011.
The NiSource GAAP results reflect certain non-material corrections to its consolidated financial statements for the three months ended March 31, 2011. The effect of these non-material corrections was an increase in income from continuing operations of $4.3 million or $0.02 per share for the three months ended March 31, 2011.
 
Operating earnings and net operating earnings from continuing operations are non-GAAP measures. NiSource management believes that these performance measures provide a more meaningful representation of the company's earnings from ongoing operations than GAAP measures alone. NiSource uses these measures internally to manage the business and to track financial performance against budget. Refer to Schedule 1 for a complete list of the items included in 2012 and 2011 GAAP income from Continuing Operations but excluded from net operating earnings.
*There will likely be differences between net operating earnings and GAAP earnings, but, due to the unpredictability of weather and other factors, NiSource does not provide GAAP earnings guidance.
About NiSource
NiSource Inc. (NYSE: NI), based in Merrillville, Ind., is a Fortune 500 company engaged in natural gas transmission, storage and distribution, as well as electric generation, transmission and distribution. NiSource operating companies deliver energy to 3.8 million customers located within the high-demand energy corridor stretching from the Gulf Coast through the Midwest to New England. Information about NiSource and its subsidiaries is available via the Internet at www.nisource.com. NI-F
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Those statements include statements regarding the intent, belief or current expectations of NiSource and its management. Although NiSource believes that its expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, it can give no assurance that its goals will be achieved. Readers are cautioned that the forward-looking statements in this presentation are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks and uncertainties, and that actual results could differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: weather; fluctuations in supply and demand for energy commodities; growth opportunities for NiSource's businesses; increased competition in deregulated energy markets; the success of regulatory and commercial initiatives; dealings with third parties over whom NiSource has no control; the effectiveness of NiSource's restructured outsourcing agreement; actual operating experience of NiSource's assets; the regulatory process; regulatory and legislative changes; the impact of potential new environmental laws or regulations; the results of material litigation; changes in pension funding requirements; changes in general economic, capital and commodity market conditions; and counterparty credit risk and the matters set forth in the "Risk Factors" Section in NiSource's 2011 Form 10-K and 2011 Forms 10-Q, many of which are risks beyond the control of NiSource. In addition, the relative contributions to profitability by each segment, and the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements relating thereto, may change over time. NiSource expressly disclaims a duty to update any of the forward-looking statements contained in this release.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


