FILE:NI/NI-8K-20120731063056.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 31, 2012, NiSource Inc. (the "Company") reported its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2012. The Company's press release, dated July 31, 2012, is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
July 31, 2012
 
NiSource Reports Second Quarter 2012 Earnings
 
 
 
 
 NiSource Inc. (NYSE: NI) today announced net operating earnings from continuing operations (non-GAAP) of $66.6 million, or $0.23 cents per share for the three months ended June 30, 2012, compared to $46.9 million, or $0.17 cents per share for the second quarter of 2011. Operating earnings for the quarter (non-GAAP) were $202.1 million compared to $164.4 million for the same period in 2011.
MERRILLVILLE, Ind.
On a GAAP basis, NiSource reported income from continuing operations for the three months ended June 30, 2012, of $70.5 million, or $0.25 cents per share, compared with $40.8 million, or $0.14 cents per share in the same period a year ago. Operating income was $208.6 million for the second quarter of 2012, compared with $165.5 million in the year-ago period. Schedules 1 and 2 of this news release contain a reconciliation of net operating earnings and operating earnings to GAAP.
"Across each of our three business units, NiSource continues to deliver on a robust combination of infrastructure modernization, growth and regulatory initiatives that together deliver significant benefits for our customers and solid value for our shareholders," President and Chief Executive Officer said. "We continue to see strong performance from NiSource's gas distribution unit, our Indiana electric business, as well as our gas transmission, storage and midstream business, which is demonstrating NiSource's significant near- and long-term growth potential in the Utica and Marcellus Shale regions."
Robert C. Skaggs, Jr.
Customer-focused pipeline projects; leveraging minerals and midstream position
(NGT&S) continues to develop and execute infrastructure investment opportunities in existing and new markets, including midstream projects to serve the increased natural gas production in the Utica and Marcellus Shale regions.
NiSource Gas Transmission & Storage
 
 
 
 
 
 
"Our gas transmission and storage team continues to advance a broad array of initiatives to enhance customer service, assure continued system reliability, and leverage our unparalleled strategic position in shale production regions," Skaggs said. "Across the board, the team is engaging customers and stakeholders in developing and executing on a deep and diverse portfolio of infrastructure investment opportunities in order to enhance the long-term value of our assets for our customers and shareholders."
 
Delivering strong performance, continued environmental investments in Indiana
(NIPSCO) continued to deliver strong operational and financial performance, while executing on significant environmental investments.
Northern Indiana Public Service Company
 
 
 
"Our NIPSCO team is celebrating the company's 100
th
anniversary this year by executing on a truly historic level of environmental investment, customer focus, and community and economic development," Skaggs said. "These combined efforts provide NIPSCO with an outstanding foundation for providing long-term sustainable growth and enhanced service to our customers."
Modernizing natural gas distribution infrastructure and services
(NGD) continues to deliver strong results from its strategy of aligning long-term infrastructure replacement and enhancement programs with a variety of complementary customer programs and rate-design initiatives.
NiSource Gas Distribution
 
 
 
 
Increasing shareholder value, supporting growing capital investment program
On May 15, NiSource announced that it has increased its quarterly dividend by 4.3 percent, resulting in an increase in the annualized Common Stock dividend from $0.92 to $0.96 per share.
NiSource also took a number of actions during the second quarter to lower borrowing costs and support its robust capital investment program, including extending the company's $1.5 billion revolving credit agreement through 2017, completing a $250 million three-year bank term loan and issuing $750 million in long-term debt at historically attractive rates. NiSource also remains on track to draw on its 2010 $400 million forward equity sale during the third quarter.
"Taken together, these actions are a testament to NiSource's disciplined financial approach and our commitment to creating long-term, sustainable shareholder value," Skaggs said. "We continue to believe NiSource has a compelling plan and the resources and capabilities to deliver on our core financial commitments, including stable investment grade credit ratings, sustainable earnings growth, and an attractive, secure and growing dividend."
2012 earnings guidance affirmed
Skaggs noted that NiSource remains on track to deliver net operating earnings in line with its full-year outlook for 2012, which is $1.40 to $1.50 per share (non-GAAP*).
Second Quarter 2012 Operating Earnings  Segment Results (non-GAAP)
NiSource's consolidated operating earnings (non-GAAP) for the quarter ended June 30, 2012, were $202.1 million, compared to $164.4 million in the second quarter of 2011. Refer to Schedule 2 for the items included in 2012 and 2011 GAAP operating income but excluded from operating earnings.
Operating earnings for NiSource's business segments for the quarter ended June 30, 2012, are discussed below.
reported operating earnings for the current quarter of $54.6 million compared to $48.9 million in the second quarter of 2011. Net revenues, excluding the impact of trackers, increased by $8.0 million primarily attributable to increases in regulatory and service programs, including the implementation of new rates under Columbia Gas of Ohio's approved infrastructure replacement program and the impact of the rate case at Columbia Gas of Pennsylvania.
Gas Distribution Operations
Operating expenses, excluding the impact of trackers, were $2.3 million higher than the comparable 2011 period as a result of an increase in depreciation costs due to an increase in capital expenditures and higher outside service costs.
 
reported operating earnings for the current quarter of $91.6 million compared to $84.6 million in the second quarter of 2011. Net revenues, excluding the impact of trackers, increased by $1.2 million, primarily attributable to higher demand margin revenue as a result of growth projects partially offset by a settlement in the second quarter of 2011 and lower condensate revenues.
Gas Transmission and Storage Operations
Operating expenses, excluding the impact of trackers, increased $0.4 million from the comparable 2011 period due to an increase in outside service costs and the write off of a growth project partially offset by decreased employee and administrative service costs, primarily pension.
Equity earnings increased $6.2 million primarily from increased earnings at Millennium Pipeline due to increased demand and commodity revenues.
reported operating earnings for the current quarter of $59.8 million compared to $37.8 million in the second quarter of 2011. Net revenues, excluding the impact of trackers, increased by $29.6 million primarily due to increased industrial, commercial and residential margins mainly as a result of the implementation of the 2010 electric rate case. Additionally, there were lower revenue credits in the current period as the electric rate case discontinued these credits. Net revenues also increased as a result of off-system sales and the implementation of a Regional Transmission Organization recovery mechanism. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in environmental cost recovery due to the plant investment eligible for recovery being reset to zero as a result of the electric rate case.
Electric Operations
Operating expenses increased by $7.6 million, excluding the impact of trackers, primarily attributable to increased depreciation costs due to previously deferred depreciation associated with the Sugar Creek facility being recognized as a result of the electric rate case. Additionally, there was an increase in MISO fees. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in electric generation costs.
reported an operating earnings loss of $3.9 million for the current quarter compared to a loss of $6.9 million in the second quarter of 2011.
Corporate and Other Operations
Other Items
Interest expense increased by $8.8 million due to the issuance of long-term debt in June 2012, November 2011 and June 2011 and the expiration of deferred interest costs related to Sugar Creek as a result of the electric rate case. These increases were partially offset by the repurchase of long-term debt in December 2011 and lower short-term borrowings and rates.
Other-net income of $2.8 million was recorded in 2012 compared to $0.6 million in 2011.
The effective tax rate of net operating earnings was 34.5 percent compared to 33.6 percent for the same period last year.
Six Month Period 2012 Operating Earnings  Segment Results (non-GAAP)
NiSource's consolidated operating earnings (non-GAAP) for the six months ended June 30, 2012, were $637.5 million, compared to $566.5 million for the same period in 2011. Refer to Schedule 2 for the items included in 2012 and 2011 GAAP operating income but excluded from operating earnings.
Operating earnings for NiSource's business segments for the six months ended June 30, 2012, are discussed below.
 
reported operating earnings of $301.1 million compared to $285.9 million reported for the first six months of 2011. Net revenues, excluding the impact of trackers, increased by $19.2 million primarily attributable to increases in regulatory and service programs, including the impact of the implementation of new rates under Columbia Gas of Ohio's approved infrastructure replacement program and the impact of the rate case at Columbia Gas of Pennsylvania.
Gas Distribution Operations
Operating expenses, excluding the impact of trackers, were $4.0 million higher than the comparable period in the prior year primarily due to an increase in depreciation costs as a result of higher capital expenditures partially offset by a decrease in employee and administrative costs.
reported operating earnings of $230.2 million versus operating earnings of $203.0 million in the first six months of 2011. Net revenues, excluding the impact of trackers, increased $17.7 million primarily attributable to an increase in demand margin revenue as a result of growth projects, the impact of new Columbia Gulf rates and increased revenue from shorter term transportation services. These increases were partially offset by decreased condensate revenues and a settlement in the second quarter of 2011.
Gas Transmission and Storage Operations
Operating expenses, excluding the impact of trackers, increased $1.4 million primarily due to Midstream expenses and increased other taxes partially offset by decreased employee and administrative costs, primarily pension.
Equity earnings increased by $10.9 million primarily from increased earnings at Millennium Pipeline due to increased demand and commodity revenues.
reported operating earnings of $108.3 million for the first six months of 2012, compared with operating earnings of $87.1 million for the prior year period. Net revenues, excluding the impact of trackers, increased by $58.9 million primarily due to increased industrial, commercial and residential margins mainly as a result of the implementation of the 2010 electric rate case. Additionally, there were lower revenue credits in the current period as the implementation of the electric rate case discontinued these credits. Net revenues also increased as a result of the implementation of a Regional Transmission Organization recovery mechanism and off system sales. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in environmental cost recovery due to the plant investment eligible for recovery being reset to zero as a result of the electric rate case.
Electric Operations
Operating expenses, excluding the impact of trackers, increased by $37.7 million due primarily to increased depreciation costs due to previously deferred depreciation associated with the Sugar Creek facility being recognized as a result of the electric rate case. Additionally, there was an increase in MISO fees and employee and administration costs. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in electric generation costs.
reported an operating earnings loss of $2.1 million in the first six months of 2012, compared to an operating earnings loss of $9.5 million in the first six months of 2011. The reduced loss is primarily attributable to unrealized gains on increases in cash surrender value of corporate owned life insurance investments.
Corporate and Other Operations
Other Items
Interest expense increased by $22.3 million due to the issuance of long-term debt in June 2012, November 2011 and June 2011 and the expiration of deferred interest costs related to Sugar Creek as a result of the electric rate case. These increases were partially offset by the repurchase of long-term debt in December 2011 and lower short-term borrowings and rates.
The effective tax rate of net operating earnings was 35.3 percent compared to 34.4 percent for the same period last year.
 
Income from Continuing Operations (GAAP)
As noted above, on a GAAP basis, NiSource reported income from continuing operations for the three months ended June 30, 2012, of $70.5 million, or $0.25 per share, compared with $40.8 million, or $0.14 per share for the comparable period in 2011. Operating income was $208.6 million for the second quarter of 2012, compared with $165.5 million in the year-ago period.
On a GAAP basis, NiSource reported income from continuing operations for the six months ended June 30, 2012, of $264.0 million, or $0.93 per share, compared with $249.9 million, or $0.89 per share last year. Operating income was $608.0 million for the first six months of 2012 versus $571.9 million in the year-ago period.
The NiSource GAAP results reflect certain non-material corrections to its consolidated financial statements for the three and six months ended June 30, 2011. The effect of these non-material corrections was an increase in income from continuing operations of $1.3 million or $0.00 per share for the three months ended June 30, 2011 and $5.6 million or $0.02 per share for the six months ended June 30, 2011.
Refer to Schedule 1 for a complete list of the items included in 2012 and 2011 GAAP income from Continuing Operations but excluded from net operating earnings.
 
About NiSource
NiSource Inc. (NYSE: NI), based in Merrillville, Ind., is a Fortune 500 company engaged in natural gas transmission, storage and distribution, as well as electric generation, transmission and distribution. NiSource operating companies deliver energy to 3.8 million customers located within the high-demand energy corridor stretching from the Gulf Coast through the Midwest to New England. Information about NiSource and its subsidiaries is available via the Internet at www.nisource.com. NI-F
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Those statements include statements regarding the intent, belief or current expectations of NiSource and its management. Although NiSource believes that its expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, it can give no assurance that its goals will be achieved. Readers are cautioned that the forward-looking statements in this presentation are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks and uncertainties, and that actual results could differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: weather; fluctuations in supply and demand for energy commodities; growth opportunities for NiSource's businesses; increased competition in deregulated energy markets; the success of regulatory and commercial initiatives; dealings with third parties over whom NiSource has no control; the effectiveness of NiSource's restructured outsourcing agreement; actual operating experience of NiSource's assets; the regulatory process; regulatory and legislative changes; the impact of potential new environmental laws or regulations; the results of material litigation; changes in pension funding requirements; changes in general economic, capital and commodity market conditions; and counterparty credit risk and the matters set forth in the "Risk Factors" Section in NiSource's 2011 Form 10-K and subsequent reports on Form 10-Q, many of which are risks beyond the control of NiSource. In addition, the relative contributions to profitability by each segment, and the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements relating thereto, may change over time. NiSource expressly disclaims a duty to update any of the forward-looking statements contained in this release.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


