FILE:NI/NI-8K-20120516141500.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers
On May 15, 2012, Ian M. Rolland, who currently serves as a Chairman of the Board of NiSource Inc. (the "Company"), advised the Board of Directors of his intention to retire from the Board of Directors upon expiration of his current term at the 2013 Annual Stockholders' Meeting.
Item 5.07
Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
On May 15, 2012, the Company held its Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the "Annual Meeting"). At the Annual Meeting, 235,576,442 shares of common stock, par value $.01, or approximately 83% of the 283,785,609 shares of common stock outstanding as of the record date, were present in person or by proxy. Set forth below are the matters acted upon by Company stockholders at the Annual Meeting as described the Company's Proxy Statement filed on April 5, 2012, and the final voting results on each such matter.
The number of votes cast for and against each nominee, as well as the number of abstentions and broker non-votes, were as follows:
Proposal I: Election of Directors.
 
Each nominee, having received more votes in favor of his or her election than against election, was elected.
The number of votes cast for and against this matter, as well as the number of abstentions, were as follows:
Proposal II: Ratification of Independent Registered Public Accountants.
 
There were no broker non-votes as to Proposal II.
Proposal II, having received the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the shares of common stock present and entitled to vote at the Annual Meeting, was approved.
The number of votes cast for and against this matter, as well as the number of abstentions, were as follows:
Proposal III: Advisory Approval of Executive Compensation.
 
There were 27,961,414 broker non-votes as to Proposal III.
Proposal III, having received the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the shares of common stock present and entitled to vote at the Annual Meeting, was approved on an advisory basis.
The number of votes cast for and against this matter, as well as the number of abstentions, were as follows:
Proposal IV: Approval of Amendment to the Company's Employee Stock Purchase Plan.
 
There were 27,961,414 broker non-votes as to Proposal IV.
Proposal IV, having received the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the shares of common stock present and entitled to vote at the Annual Meeting, was approved.
The number of votes cast for and against this matter, as well as the number of abstentions, were as follows:
Proposal V: Stockholder Proposal Regarding Cumulative Voting.
 
There were 27,961,414 broker non-votes as to Proposal V.
Proposal V, having failed to receive the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the shares of common stock present and entitled to vote at the Annual Meeting, was not approved.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


