FILE:NI/NI-8K-20121102062853.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant To Section 13 OR 15(d) of The
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): November 2, 2012
 
NiSource Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
Registrants telephone number, including area code (877) 647-5990
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions.
On November 2, 2012, NiSource Inc. (the Company) reported its financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2012. The Companys press release, dated November 2, 2012, is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99.1
November 2, 2012
FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
NiSource Reports Third Quarter 2012 Earnings
MERRILLVILLE, Ind.
- NiSource Inc. (NYSE: NI) today announced net operating earnings from continuing operations (non-GAAP) of $15.8 million, or $0.05 per share for the three months ended September 30, 2012. Earnings for the quarter, which are in line with consensus estimates, reflect the costs to achieve
Columbia Gas Transmission's
pipeline modernization settlement filed with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) on September 4, 2012. For the third quarter of 2011, net operating earnings from continuing operations (non-GAAP) were $33.1 million, or $0.11 per share. Operating earnings for the quarter (non-GAAP) were $130.1 million compared to $141.9 million for the same period in 2011.
Commenting on the settlement, NiSource President & CEO
Robert C. Skaggs Jr.
noted, The modernization settlement will provide significant long-term benefits to all key stakeholders. By partnering with our customers, we've developed a collaborative settlement that supports good public policy, while creating a win-win for customers, pipeline integrity, economic growth and shareholder value.
Skaggs also indicated that with continued strong performance from each of its core business units - and landmark progress on the company's comprehensive infrastructure investment strategy - NiSource is solidly on track to achieve its 2012 earnings guidance of $1.40 to $1.50 per share (non-GAAP*), while advancing its long-term strategy to produce increased shareholder value and sustainable earnings growth of 5-7 percent annually.
On a GAAP basis, NiSource reported income from continuing operations for the three months ended September 30, 2012, of $20.0 million, or $0.06 per share, compared with $36.3 million, or $0.13 per share in the same period a year ago. Operating income was $137.2 million for the third quarter of 2012, compared with $147.4 million in the year-ago period. Schedules 1 and 2 of
1
this news release contain a reconciliation of net operating earnings and operating earnings to GAAP.
Pipeline modernization, midstream and market growth projects on track
NiSource
Gas Transmission & Storage
(NGT&S)
made strong progress during the third quarter on its strategies to modernize the company's core interstate natural gas pipeline system, execute on market- and supply-driven growth projects, and pursue midstream and minerals opportunities linked to NiSource's strong asset position in the Utica and Marcellus Shale production regions.
 
2
NiSource's gas transmission, storage and midstream team continues to execute on a broad array of value-adding system improvement and growth opportunities, Skaggs noted. Moving forward, we expect to invest $500 million to $700 million annually in this segment of our business, driving annual operating earnings growth of 10 to 12 percent for the unit.
Continued strong performance, environmental investments in Indiana
Northern Indiana Public Service Company
(NIPSCO) continued to deliver strong operational and financial performance during the third quarter, while executing on significant environmental investments at its largest electric generating facility.
Our NIPSCO team, under the leadership of new group CEO Jim Stanley, is moving full steam ahead on a course toward top-tier customer service and reliability, infrastructure investment, environmental improvements and strong, sustainable earnings growth, Skaggs said.
Modernizing natural gas distribution infrastructure, rates and services
NiSource Gas Distribution
(NGD)
continues to deliver strong results from its strategy of aligning long-term infrastructure replacement and enhancement programs with a variety of complementary customer programs and regulatory initiatives.
3
With an investment inventory approaching $10 billion over the next 20-plus years, our gas distribution modernization programs provide a strong foundation for NiSource's long-term, investment-driven growth strategy, Skaggs said. These programs, paired with complementary customer programs and regulatory treatment, are providing significant value for our customers, shareholders and other key stakeholders.
Enhanced infrastructure investment plans outlined at 2012 Investor Day
Skaggs and other NiSource executives outlined an enhanced long-term capital investment program - with potential growth investment opportunities amounting to $25 billion to $30 billion over the next 20-plus years across its three major business units - at its September 12, 2012, Investor Day.
In addition to outlining the company's enhanced infrastructure investment plans - which are expected to contribute to an annual capital investment program of $1.5 billion to $1.8 billion - NiSource highlighted its core commitments to investors and other financial stakeholders, including:
Thanks to NiSource's solid financial, regulatory and operational execution over the past few years, we are pleased to be in a position to accelerate our infrastructure investments across the company, Skaggs
said. These enhanced long-term infrastructure plans will continue to provide significant benefits to customers, communities and shareholders through more modern and reliable systems, job creation and economic development, and sustainable earnings growth.
Third Quarter 2012 Operating Earnings - Segment Results (non-GAAP)
NiSource's consolidated operating earnings (non-GAAP) for the quarter ended September 30, 2012, were $130.1 million, compared to $141.9 million in the third quarter of 2011. Refer to Schedule 2 for the items included in 2012 and 2011 GAAP operating income but excluded from operating earnings.
4
Operating earnings for NiSource's business segments for the quarter ended September 30, 2012, are discussed below.
Gas Transmission and Storage
Operations
reported operating earnings for the current quarter of $38.8 million compared to $68.2 million in the third quarter of 2011. Net revenues, excluding the impact of trackers, decreased by $64.6 million, primarily attributable to the Columbia Gas Transmission customer settlement, partially offset by higher demand margin revenue as a result of growth projects placed in service and the impacts of the Columbia Gulf rate case.
Operating expenses, excluding the impact of trackers, decreased $30.7 million from the comparable 2011 period due to decreased depreciation and amortization primarily attributable to the Columbia Gas Transmission customer settlement and a decrease in environmental costs, partially offset by higher outside service costs.
Equity earnings increased $4.5 million primarily from increased earnings at Millennium Pipeline due to increased demand and commodity revenues.
Electric
Operations
reported operating earnings for the current quarter of $77.7 million compared to $72.9 million in the third quarter of 2011. Net revenues, excluding the impact of trackers, increased by $26.7 million primarily due to lower revenue credits in the current period as the 2011 electric rate case discontinued these credits. Additionally, net revenues increased due to increased industrial and commercial margins mainly as a result of the implementation of the electric rate case. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in environmental cost recovery due to the plant investment eligible for recovery being reset to zero as a result of the electric rate case.
Operating expenses increased by $21.9 million, excluding the impact of trackers, primarily attributable to increased depreciation costs due to previously deferred depreciation associated with the Sugar Creek facility being recognized as a result of the electric rate case. Additionally, there was an increase in electric generation costs, higher property taxes, increased storm damage costs and increased employee and administration costs. Additionally, MISO fees increased as these costs were previously deferred and the electric rate case resulted in the expiration of those deferrals. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in rate case expenses related to the electric rate case filing.
Gas Distribution
Operations
reported operating earnings for the current quarter of $15.5 million compared to $8.0 million in the third quarter of 2011. Net revenues, excluding the impact of trackers, increased by $12.5 million primarily attributable to increases in regulatory and service programs, including the implementation of new rates under Columbia Gas of Ohio's approved infrastructure replacement program and the impact of a 2011 rate case at Columbia Gas of Pennsylvania.
Operating expenses, excluding the impact of trackers, were $5.0 million higher than the comparable 2011 period as a result of an increase in depreciation costs due to an increase in capital expenditures and increased employee and administration costs partially offset by a decrease in environmental costs.
Corporate and Other Operations
reported an operating earnings loss of $1.9 million for the current quarter compared to an operating earnings loss of $7.2 million in the third quarter of 2011. The reduced loss is primarily attributable to unrealized gains on increases in cash surrender value of corporate-owned life insurance investments.
5
Other Items
Interest expense increased by $12.2 million due to the issuance of long-term debt in June 2012 and November 2011 and the expiration of deferred interest costs related to Sugar Creek as a result of the 2011 electric rate case. These increases were partially offset by the repurchase of long-term debt in December 2011 and lower short-term borrowings and rates.
Other-net income of $2.2 million was recorded in 2012 compared to $1.6 million in 2011.
The effective tax rate of net operating earnings was 35.2 percent compared to 30.8 percent for the same period last year, primarily due to the removal of the research and development tax credit benefit in 2012.
Nine Month Period 2012 Operating Earnings - Segment Results (non-GAAP)
NiSource's consolidated operating earnings (non-GAAP) for the nine months ended September 30, 2012, were $767.7 million, compared to $708.5 million for the same period in 2011. Refer to Schedule 2 for the items included in 2012 and 2011 GAAP operating income but excluded from operating earnings.
Operating earnings for NiSource's business segments for the nine months ended September 30, 2012, are discussed below.
Gas Transmission and Storage Operations
reported operating earnings of $269.0 million versus operating earnings of $271.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2011. Net revenues, excluding the impact of trackers, decreased $46.9 million primarily as a result of the customer settlement at Columbia Gas Transmission, a decrease in condensate revenue and a settlement in the second quarter of 2011. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in demand margin revenue as a result of growth projects placed in service, the impact of new Columbia Gulf rates and increased revenue from shorter term transportation services.
Operating expenses, excluding the impact of trackers, decreased $29.4 million primarily due to lower depreciation and amortization as a result of the Columbia Gas Transmission customer settlement, decreased environmental costs, and decreased employee and administration costs, primarily pension. These decreases were partially offset by increased outside service costs, increased Midstream expenses and higher other taxes.
Equity earnings increased by $15.4 million primarily from increased earnings at Millennium Pipeline due to increased demand and commodity revenues.
Electric Operations
reported operating earnings of $186.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2012, compared with operating earnings of $160.0 million for the prior year period. Net revenues, excluding the impact of trackers, increased by $85.3 million primarily due to increased industrial, commercial and residential margins mainly as a result of the implementation of the 2011 electric rate case. Additionally, there were lower revenue credits in the current period as the implementation of the electric rate case discontinued these credits. Net revenues also increased as a result of the implementation of a Regional Transmission Organization recovery mechanism. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in environmental cost recovery due to the plant investment eligible for recovery being reset to zero as a result of the electric rate case.
Operating expenses, excluding the impact of trackers, increased by $59.3 million due primarily to increased depreciation costs due to previously deferred depreciation associated with the Sugar Creek facility being recognized as a result of the electric rate case. Additionally, there was
6
an increase in MISO fees and employee and administration costs. Operating expenses also increased due to increased electric generation and storm damage costs. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in rate case filing expenses related to the electric rate case filing.
Gas Distribution Operations
reported operating earnings of $316.6 million compared to $293.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2011. Net revenues, excluding the impact of trackers, increased by $31.8 million primarily attributable to increases in regulatory and service programs, including the impact of the implementation of new rates under Columbia Gas of Ohio's approved infrastructure replacement program and the impact of a 2011 rate case at Columbia Gas of Pennsylvania.
Operating expenses, excluding the impact of trackers, were $9.1 million higher than the comparable period in the prior year primarily due to an increase in depreciation costs as a result of higher capital expenditures and increased outside service costs partially offset by a decrease in environmental costs.
Corporate and Other Operations
reported an operating earnings loss of $3.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2012, compared to an operating earnings loss of $16.5 million for the comparable prior period. The reduced loss is primarily attributable to unrealized gains on increases in cash surrender value of corporate-owned life insurance investments.
Other Items
Interest expense increased by $34.5 million due to the issuance of long-term debt in June 2012, November 2011 and June 2011 and the expiration of deferred interest costs related to Sugar Creek as a result of the electric rate case. These increases were partially offset by the repurchase of long-term debt in December 2011 and lower short-term borrowings and rates.
The effective tax rate of net operating earnings was 35.4 percent compared to 34.0 percent for the same period last year.
Income from Continuing Operations (GAAP)
As noted above, on a GAAP basis, NiSource reported income from continuing operations for the three months ended September 30, 2012, of $20.0 million, or $0.06 per share, compared with $36.3 million, or $0.13 per share for the comparable period in 2011. Operating income was $137.2 million for the third quarter of 2012, compared with $147.4 million in the year-ago period.
On a GAAP basis, NiSource reported income from continuing operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2012, of $284.0 million, or $0.99 per share, compared with $286.2 million, or $1.02 per share last year. Operating income was $745.2 million for the first nine months of 2012 versus $719.3 million in the year-ago period.
The NiSource GAAP results reflect certain non-material corrections to its consolidated financial statements for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2011. There was no effect of these non-material corrections on income from continuing operations for the three months ended September 30, 2011 and $5.6 million or $0.02 per share for the nine months ended September 30, 2011.
Refer to Schedule 1 for a complete list of the items included in 2012 and 2011 GAAP income from continuing operations but excluded from net operating earnings.
*There will likely be differences between net operating earnings and GAAP earnings, but due to the unpredictability of weather and other factors, NiSource does not provide GAAP earnings guidance.
7
About NiSource
NiSource Inc. (NYSE: NI), based in Merrillville, Ind., is a Fortune 500 company engaged in natural gas transmission, storage and distribution, as well as electric generation, transmission and distribution. NiSource operating companies deliver energy to 3.8 million customers located within the high-demand energy corridor stretching from the Gulf Coast through the Midwest to New England. Information about NiSource and its subsidiaries is available via the Internet at www.nisource.com. NI-F
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Those statements include statements regarding the intent, belief or current expectations of NiSource and its management. Although NiSource believes that its expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, it can give no assurance that its goals will be achieved. Readers are cautioned that the forward-looking statements in this presentation are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks and uncertainties, and that actual results could differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: weather; fluctuations in supply and demand for energy commodities; growth opportunities for NiSource's businesses; increased competition in deregulated energy markets; the success of regulatory and commercial initiatives; dealings with third parties over whom NiSource has no control; the effectiveness of NiSource's restructured outsourcing agreement; actual operating experience of NiSource's assets; the regulatory process; regulatory and legislative changes; the impact of potential new environmental laws or regulations; the results of material litigation; changes in pension funding requirements; changes in general economic, capital and commodity market conditions; and counterparty credit risk and the matters set forth in the "Risk Factors" Section in NiSource's 2011 Form 10-K and subsequent reports on Form 10-Q, many of which are risks beyond the control of NiSource. In addition, the relative contributions to profitability by each segment, and the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements relating thereto, may change over time. NiSource expressly disclaims a duty to update any of the forward-looking statements contained in this release.
8
NiSource Inc.
Consolidated Net Operating Earnings (Non-GAAP)
(
unaudited
)
9
NiSource Inc.
Segment Operating Earnings (Non-GAAP)
10
NiSource Inc.
Segment Operating Earnings (Non-GAAP)
11
NiSource Inc.
Segment Volumes and Statistical Data
12
NiSource Inc.
Segment Volumes and Statistical Data
13
NiSource Inc.
Schedule 1  Reconciliation of Net Operating Earnings to GAAP
14
NiSource Inc.
Schedule 2  Adjustments by Segment from Operating Earnings to GAAP
For Quarter ended September 30,
15
NiSource Inc.
Schedule 2  Adjustments by Segment from Operating Earnings to GAAP
For Nine Months ended September 30,
16
NiSource Inc.
Consolidated Income Statement (GAAP)
(
unaudited
)
17
NiSource Inc.
Consolidated Balance Sheets (GAAP)
(
unaudited
)
18
NiSource Inc.
Consolidated Balance Sheets (continued) (GAAP)
(
unaudited
)
19
NiSource Inc.
Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows (GAAP)
(
unaudited
)
20


