FILE:HCP/HCP-8K-20040506113154.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 12. Disclosure of Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On May 6, 2004, we issued a press release, which sets forth our results of operations for the quarter ended March 31, 2004. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. Such information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and is not incorporated by reference into any filing of the company, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

 
 
HEALTH CARE PROPERTY INVESTORS, INC. REPORTS RESULTS FOR
THE QUARTER ENDED MARCH 31, 2004
 
LONG BEACH, CA, May 6, 2004  Health Care Property Investors, Inc. (NYSE:HCP), a health care real estate investment trust (REIT), today announced operating results for the quarter ended March 31, 2004. Net income applicable to common shares for the quarter ended March 31, 2004 totaled $41.6 million, or $0.31 per diluted share of common stock, on revenue of $98.1 million. This compares with net income applicable to common shares of $21.4 million, or $0.18 per diluted share of common stock, on revenue of $85.9 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2003.
 
Funds From Operations (FFO) was $54.0 million, or $0.41 per diluted share of common stock, for the quarter ended March 31, 2004. This compares with FFO of $38.9 million, or $0.32 per diluted share of common stock, for the quarter ended March 31, 2003. Prior to asset impairment charges, FFO was $0.41 and $0.40 per diluted share for the quarters ended March 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
 
The Company's presentation of FFO has been revised to include the effect of asset impairment charges, consistent with recent clarifications from the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT"). For the first quarter of 2004 and 2003, asset impairments reduced FFO by $1.0 million and $8.9 million, respectively. FFO is a supplemental non-GAAP financial measurement used to evaluate the operating performance of real estate investment trusts.
 
FIRST QUARTER HIGHLIGHTS AND RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FUTURE OPERATIONS
 
For the full year 2004, the Company presently expects net income applicable to common shares to be $1.19 per diluted share, and continues to expect FFO to range between $1.76 and $1.81 per diluted share, excluding the impact of future impairments, if any.
 
COMPANY INFORMATION
 
Health Care Property Investors, Inc. has scheduled a conference call and webcast today, Thursday, May 6, 2004 at 9:00 a.m. Pacific Time (12:00 p.m. Eastern Time) in order to present the Company's performance and operating results for the quarter ended March 31, 2004. The conference call is accessible by dialing 800-299-7635 (U.S.) and 617-786-2901 (International). The participant passcode is 38079479. The webcast is accessible via the Company's Internet web site at . A webcast replay of the conference call will be available after 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time on May 6, 2004 through May 20, 2004 on the Company's website.
www.hcpi.com
 
Health Care Property Investors, Inc. (NYSE:HCP) is a self-administered real estate investment trust (REIT) that invests directly or through joint ventures in health care facilities. As of March 31, 2004, the Company's portfolio of properties, including investments through joint ventures and mortgage loans, included 537 properties in 43 states and consisted of 30 hospitals, 173 long-term care facilities, 122 assisted and retirement living facilities, 188 medical office buildings and 24 other health care facilities. For more information on Health Care Property Investors, Inc., visit the Company's web site at .
www.hcpi.com
 
Statements in this news release and the supplement that are not historical may contain forward-looking statements subject to risks and uncertainties, such as competition for the acquisition and financing of health-care facilities, competition for lessees and mortgagors (including with respect to new leases and mortgages and the renewal or roll-over of existing leases); continuing operational difficulties in the long-term care and assisted living sectors; the Company's ability to acquire, sell or lease facilities and the timing of acquisitions, sales and leasings; changes in health care laws and regulations and other changes in the health-care industry which affect the operations of the Company's lessees or mortgagors; changes in management; costs of compliance with building regulations; changes in tax laws and regulations; changes in the financial position of the Company's lessees and mortgagors; changes in rules governing financial reporting, including new accounting pronouncements; and changes in economic conditions, including changes in interest rates and the availability and cost of capital, which affect opportunities for profitable investments. Some of these risks are described from time to time in the SEC reports filed by the Company.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
The Company believes that Funds From Operations (FFO) is an important supplemental measure of operating performance for a real estate investment trust. Because the historical cost accounting convention used for real estate assets requires straight-line depreciation (except on land), such accounting presentation implies that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time. Since real estate values instead have historically risen and fallen with market conditions, presentations of operating results for a real estate investment trust that uses historical cost accounting for depreciation could be less informative. The term FFO was designed by the real estate investment trust industry to address this issue.
 
The Company defines FFO as net income applicable to common shares (computed in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles), excluding gains (or losses) from real estate dispositions, plus real estate depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated joint ventures. Adjustments for unconsolidated joint ventures are calculated to reflect FFO on the same basis. FFO does not represent cash generated from operating activities in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, is not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund cash needs, and should not be considered as an alternative to net income. A reconciliation of net income applicable to common shares to FFO is provided herein.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
The Company believes that Funds From Operations (FFO) is an important supplemental measure of operating performance for a real estate investment trust. Because the historical cost accounting convention used for real estate assets requires straight-line depreciation (except on land), such accounting presentation implies that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time. Since real estate values instead have historically risen and fallen with market conditions, presentations of operating results for a real estate investment trust that uses historical cost accounting for depreciation could be less informative. The term FFO was designed by the real estate investment trust industry to address this issue.
 
The Company defines FFO as Net Income applicable to common shares (computed in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles), excluding gains (or losses) from real estate dispositions, plus real estate depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated joint ventures. Adjustments for unconsolidated joint ventures are calculated to reflect FFO on the same basis. FFO does not represent cash generated from operating activities in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, is not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund cash needs and should not be considered as an alternative to net income.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INVESTMENTS AND CONSTRUCTION COMMITMENTS
 
During the quarter ended March 31, 2004 the Company acquired properties with an aggregate cost of $47.8 million.
 
As of March 31, 2004, the Company had contractual commitments to acquire or construct $125.5 million of health care real estate and capital projects, including $47 million related to the acquisition of seven long-term care facilities on April 30, 2004, which are expected to be substantially completed by March 31, 2005. The Company expects that a significant portion of these commitments will be funded; however, experience suggests that some committed transactions may not close for various reasons including unsatisfied closing conditions, competitive financing resources, final negotiation differences or the operator's inability to obtain required or governmental approvals.
 
As of March 31, 2004, the Company's total investment in properties, including investments through joint ventures and mortgage loans, was approximately $3.3 billion.
 
SELECTED OPERATORS
 
During the quarter ended March 31, 2004, 12.1% of the Company's revenue less operating expenses was generated from seven hospitals and one medical office building leased to Tenet Healthcare Corporation ("Tenet"). Cash flow coverage for rents of the Tenet hospitals was 2.9x for the full year 2003, and includes the effect of Medicare settlements related to 2003 and prior years.
 
During the quarter ended March 31, 2004, 5.2% of the Company's revenue less operating expenses was generated from facilities leased to HealthSouth Corporation ("HealthSouth"), primarily from nine rehabilitation hospitals.
 
According to public disclosures, Tenet and HealthSouth are experiencing significant legal, financial and regulatory difficulties. The Company cannot predict with certainty the impact, if any, of the outcome of these uncertainties on its consolidated financial statements. The failure or inability of these operators to pay their obligations could materially reduce the Company's revenues, net income, and cash flows, which could in turn reduce the amount of cash available for the payment of dividends, cause the Company's stock price to decline, and could cause the Company to incur impairment charges or a loss on the sale of the properties.
 
 
OTHER INFORMATION
 
The following summarizes certain information for the quarters ended March 31, 2004 and 2003:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


