FILE:HCP/HCP-8K-20040129172334.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 22, 2004, Health Care Property Investors, Inc. (the "Company") announced that its Board of Directors (the "Board") has amended the Rights Agreement dated July 27, 2000, by changing the Rights Agreement's expiration date to February 2, 2004. As a result of this action, the preferred share purchase rights granted under the Rights Agreement will also expire on February 2, 2004. The Board has determined that the Rights Agreement and the preferred share purchase rights that it granted are not in the Company's best interest at this time and therefore has taken this action.
 
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 4.1
 
 
This Amendment No. 1 (the "Amendment"), dated as of January 21, 2004, to the Rights Agreement, dated as of July 27, 2000 (the "Rights Agreement"), is between Health Care Property Investors, Inc., a Maryland corporation (the "Corporation"), and The Bank of New York (the "Rights Agent").
 
The Corporation and the Rights Agent have heretofore executed and entered into the Rights Agreement. Pursuant to Section 26 of the Rights Agreement, the Corporation, for so long as the Rights are redeemable, may from time to time supplement or amend the Rights Agreement in accordance with the provisions of Section 26 thereof and the Corporation desires and directs the Rights Agent to so amend the Rights Agreement. All acts and things necessary to make this Amendment a valid agreement according to its terms have been done and performed, and the execution and delivery of this Amendment by the Corporation and the Rights Agent have been in all respects authorized by the Corporation and the Rights Agent.
 
In consideration of the foregoing premises and mutual agreements set forth in the Rights Agreement and this Amendment, the parties hereto agree as follows:
 
1.    Section 7.1 of the Rights Agreement is hereby modified and amended to read in its entirety as follows:
 
"7.1 Exercise of Rights. Subject to Section 11.1.2 and except as otherwise provided herein, the registered holder of any Right Certificate may exercise the Rights evidenced thereby in whole or in part at any time after the Distribution Date upon surrender of the Right Certificate, with the form of election to purchase and certification on the reverse side thereof duly executed, to the Rights Agent at the office of the Rights Agent designated for such purpose, together with payment of the aggregate Purchase Price for the total number of one one-hundredths of a Preferred Share (or other securities, cash or other assets) as to which the Rights are exercised, at or prior to the time (the "Expiration Date") that is the earliest of (i) the close of business on February 2, 2004 (the "Final Expiration Date"), (ii) the time at which the Rights are redeemed as provided in Section 23 (the "Redemption Date"), (iii) the closing of any merger or other acquisition transaction involving the Corporation pursuant to an agreement of the type described in Section 13.3 at which time the Rights are deemed terminated, or (iv) the time at which the Rights are exchanged as provided in Section 27."
2.    Except as expressly amended hereby, the Rights Agreement remains in full force and effect in accordance with its terms.
 
3.    Governing Law; Jurisdiction; Waiver of Jury Trial. This Amendment and each Right Certificate issued hereunder shall be deemed to be a contract made under the laws of the State of Maryland and for all purposes shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of such State applicable to contracts to be made and performed entirely within such State; provided, however, that the rights, duties and obligations of the Rights Agent shall be governed and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York. The parties hereto agree that all actions and proceedings arising out of this Amendment or any of the transactions contemplated hereby shall be brought in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, and that in connection with any such action or proceeding, submit to the jurisdiction of an venue in, such court. Each of the parties hereto also irrevocably waives all right to trial by jury in any action, proceeding or counter claim arising out of this Amendment or the transactions contemplated hereby.
 
4.    This Amendment to the Rights Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and each of such counterparts shall for all purposes be deemed an original, and all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
 
5.    Except as expressly set forth herein, this Amendment to the Rights Agreement shall not by implication or otherwise alter, modify, amend or in any way affect any of the terms, conditions, obligations, covenants or agreements contained in the Rights Agreement, all of which are ratified and affirmed in all respects and shall continue in full force and effect.
 
6.    Capitalized terms used herein but not defined shall have the meanings given to them in the Rights Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to the Rights Agreement to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written.
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
NEWS RELEASE
 
 
HEALTH CARE PROPERTY INVESTORS, INC. ANNOUNCES CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INITIATIVES: APPROVES TERMINATION OF STOCKHOLDER RIGHTS PLAN AND PROPOSES BOARD DECLASSIFICATION
 
NEWPORT BEACH, CA., January 22, 2004Health Care Property Investors, Inc. (NYSE: HCP), an equity health care real estate investment trust (REIT), today announced that, pursuant to recommendations made by its Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee chaired by Richard M. Rosenberg, retired chairman and chief executive officer of Bank of America, it is undertaking certain corporate governance initiatives that it believes are in the best interests of the Company's stockholders. The Company's Board of Directors has approved an amendment to the Company's stockholder rights plan ("poison pill") that will cause the rights to expire on February 2, 2004 and has approved amendments to the Company's charter and bylaws that would declassify its Board of Directors and provide for the annual election of directors. Under the current classified system, directors are elected to a three-year term and approximately one-third of the full board is up for election each year. The charter amendment providing for declassification will require stockholder approval, which the Company intends to seek at its 2004 annual stockholders' meeting.
 
 
Health Care Property Investors, Inc. (NYSE: HCP) is a self-administered equity real estate investment trust (REIT) that invests directly or through joint ventures in health care facilities. As of September 30, 2003, the Company's portfolio of 446 properties in 43 states consisted of 31 hospitals, 175 long-term care facilities, 124 retirement and assisted living facilities, 85 medical office buildings and 31 other health care facilities. For more information on Health Care Property Investors, Inc. visit the Company's web site at .
www.hcpi.com


