FILE:HCP/HCP-8K-20050801214252.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02.
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On August 1, 2005, we issued a press release, which sets forth our results of operations for the quarter ended June 30, 2005.  The press release referred to a supplemental information package that is available on our website, free of charge, at www.hcpi.com.  The text of the press release and the supplemental information package are attached hereto as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively, and are incorporated by reference herein.
 
Such information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and is not incorporated by reference into any filing of the company, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
 
Item 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
NEWS RELEASE
 
HEALTH CARE PROPERTY INVESTORS, INC.
REPORTS RESULTS FOR THE QUARTER ENDED JUNE 30, 2005
 
LONG BEACH, CA, August 1, 2005  Health Care Property Investors, Inc. (the "Company") (NYSE:HCP), a healthcare real estate investment trust ("REIT"), today announced operating results for the quarter ended June 30, 2005. Net income applicable to common shares for the quarter ended June 30, 2005, was $37.8 million, or $0.28 per diluted share of common stock. This compares with net income applicable to common shares of $36.3 million, or $0.27 per diluted share of common stock for the quarter ended June 30, 2004.  Net income applicable to common shares for the six months ended June 30, 2005, was $75.9 million, or $0.56 per diluted share of common stock, compared to $77.9 million, or $0.59 per diluted share of common stock in the year ago period.
 
Funds From Operations ("FFO") applicable to common shares was $64.3 million, or $0.47 per diluted share of common stock, for the quarter ended June 30, 2005, compared to FFO applicable to common shares of $58.0 million, or $0.44 per diluted share of common stock, for the quarter ended June 30, 2004. FFO applicable to common shares for the six months ended June 30, 2005, was $123.2 million, or $0.91 per diluted share of common stock, compared to $112.0 million, or $0.84 per diluted share of common stock in the year ago period.  Prior to impairment charges, FFO applicable to common shares was $0.45 and $0.86 per diluted share of common stock for the three and six months ended June 30, 2004, respectively.  No impairment charges were incurred in 2005.  FFO is a supplemental non-GAAP financial measure that the Company believes is helpful in evaluating the operating performance of real estate investment trusts.
 
RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
 
 - 
                 
Year-to-date, the Company has made secured loans and acquired interests in properties aggregating $441 million, including the following:
 
On July 22, 2005, the Company acquired twelve independent and assisted living facilities for approximately $252 million, including assumed debt valued at approximately $52 million, through a sale-leaseback transaction.  These facilities have an initial lease term of 15 years, with three ten-year renewal options.  The initial annual lease rate is approximately 7.1% with annual escalators based on the Consumer Price Index ("CPI") that have a floor of 3%.  Eleven of the facilities have an average occupancy of 91%.  One facility will be placed into service in August 2005 and is currently 34% pre-leased.
 - 
                 
On July 1, 2005, the Company acquired an assisted living facility for approximately $16 million through a sale-leaseback transaction. The facility has an initial lease term of 15 years, with two ten-year renewal options.  The initial annual lease rate is approximately 8.75% with annual CPI-based escalators that have a floor of 2.75%.  The property is currently 96% occupied and a 60-unit expansion is planned.
 - 
                 
 
As previously announced, on April 28, 2005, the Company acquired five medical office buildings for approximately $81 million, including assumed debt valued at $29 million. The initial yield is 7.0% with two properties currently in lease-up.  The yield following lease-up is expected to be 8.2%.  The medical office buildings include approximately 537,000 rentable square feet.
 - 
                 
 
 - 
                 
As previously announced, on April 20, 2005, the Company acquired five assisted living facilities for $58 million through a sale-leaseback transaction. These facilities have an initial lease term of 15 years, with two ten-year renewal options. The initial annual lease rate is approximately 9.0% with annual CPI-based escalators that have a floor of 2.75%. These properties are included in a new master lease along with five other properties currently leased to the operator.
 
 - 
                 
Year-to-date, the Company sold interests in ten properties for approximately $48 million and recognized a gain of approximately $9 million. During the quarter ended June 30, 2005, the Company sold interests in six properties for approximately $13 million and recognized a gain of approximately $4 million.
 
 - 
                 
On April 27, 2005, the Company issued $250 million of 5 5/8% senior unsecured notes due 2017. The notes were priced at 99.585% of the principal amount for an effective yield of 5.673%.  The Company received proceeds of $247 million, which were used to repay borrowings under the bank line of credit and for general corporate purposes.
 
 - 
                 
On July 27, 2005, the Company announced that its Board declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.42 per share of common stock. The common stock cash dividend will be paid on August 19, 2005, to stockholders of record as of the close of business on August 8, 2005.
 
FUTURE OPERATIONS
 
For the full year 2005, the Company presently expects net income applicable to common shares to range between $1.04 and $1.08 per diluted common share, and FFO applicable to common shares to range between $1.82 and $1.86 per diluted common share.
 
COMPANY INFORMATION
 
Health Care Property Investors, Inc. has scheduled a conference call and webcast for Tuesday, August 2, 2005 at 9:00 a.m. Pacific Time (12:00 p.m. Eastern Time) in order to present the Company's performance and operating results for the quarter ended June 30, 2005. The conference call is accessible by dialing 800-901-5241 (U.S.) and 617-786-2963 (International). The participant pass code is 65700216. The webcast is accessible via the Company's Internet web site at www.hcpi.com. A webcast replay of the conference call will be available after 2:00 p.m. Eastern Time on August 2, 2005 through August 16, 2005 on the Company's web site. The Company's supplemental information package for the current period will also be available on the Company's web site in the "Presentations" section of the "Investor Relations" tab.
 
Health Care Property Investors, Inc. (NYSE:HCP) is a self-administered REIT that invests directly or through joint ventures in healthcare facilities. As of June 30, 2005, the Company's portfolio of properties, excluding assets held for sale but including investments through joint ventures and mortgage loans, included 529 properties in 42 states and consisted of 28 hospitals, 165 skilled nursing facilities, 121 assisted living and continuing care retirement communities, 191 medical office buildings and 24 other healthcare facilities. For more information on Health Care Property Investors, Inc., visit the Company's web site at www.hcpi.com.
 
Contact:
Health Care Property Investors, Inc., Long Beach, California
 
Talya Nevo-Hacohen
Senior Vice President  Strategic Development and Treasurer
(562) 733-5100
 
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: The statements contained in this release which are not historical facts are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements include the Company's estimate of net income per diluted common share and FFO per diluted common share for the full year 2005. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in or implied by forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include competition for the acquisition and financing of healthcare facilities, competition for lessees and mortgagors (including new leases and mortgages and the renewal or rollover of existing leases); continuing operational difficulties in the skilled nursing and assisted living sectors; the Company's ability to acquire, sell or lease facilities and the timing of acquisitions, sales and leasings; changes in healthcare laws and regulations and other changes in the healthcare industry which affect the operations of the Company's lessees or mortgagors; changes in management; costs of compliance with building regulations; changes in tax laws and regulations; changes in the financial position of the Company's lessees and mortgagors; changes in rules governing financial reporting, including new accounting pronouncements; and changes in economic conditions, including changes in interest rates and the availability and cost of capital, which affect opportunities for profitable investments.  Some of these risks, and other risks, are described from time to time in Health Care Property Investors, Inc.'s Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
 
The Company believes that Funds From Operations ("FFO") applicable to common shares and Basic and Diluted Funds From Operations per common share are important supplemental measures of operating performance for a real estate investment trust. Because the historical cost accounting convention used for real estate assets requires straight-line depreciation (except on land), such accounting presentation implies that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time. Since real estate values instead have historically risen and fallen with market conditions, presentations of operating results for a real estate investment trust that use historical cost accounting for depreciation could be less informative. The term FFO was designed by the real estate investment trust industry to address this issue.
(1)
         
 
FFO is defined as net income (computed in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles), excluding gains or losses from real estate dispositions, plus real estate depreciation and amortization, with adjustments for joint ventures. Adjustments for joint ventures are calculated to reflect FFO on the same basis. FFO does not represent cash generated from operating activities in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, is not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund cash needs and should not be considered an alternative to net income.  A reconciliation of net income applicable to common shares to FFO applicable to common shares is provided herein.
 
 
 
The Company believes that Funds From Operations ("FFO") applicable to common shares, Diluted Funds From Operations applicable to common shares and Basic and Diluted Funds From Operations per common share are important supplemental measures of operating performance for a real estate investment trust. Because the historical cost accounting convention used for real estate assets requires straight-line depreciation (except on land), such accounting presentation implies that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time. Since real estate values instead have historically risen and fallen with market conditions, presentations of operating results for a real estate investment trust that use historical cost accounting for depreciation could be less informative. The term FFO was designed by the real estate investment trust industry to address this issue.
(1)
         
 
FFO is defined as net income (computed in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles), excluding gains or losses from real estate dispositions, plus real estate depreciation and amortization, with adjustments for joint ventures. Adjustments for joint ventures are calculated to reflect FFO on the same basis. FFO does not represent cash generated from operating activities in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, is not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund cash needs and should not be considered an alternative to net income.
 
 
PROJECTED FUTURE OPERATIONS (Full Year 2005):
 
 
(1)
         
The foregoing projections involve numerous assumptions including rental rates, occupancy levels and selling prices of properties, the sale of certain securities in an operator in our existing portfolio, as well as real estate acquisition and disposition related volume, yields and timing. The projection ranges do not include the effects of any future impairments. By definition, FFO does not include real estate-related depreciation and amortization or gains and losses associated with real estate disposition activities, but does include impairment charges. There can be no assurance that the Company's actual results will not differ materially from the estimates set forth above. The aforementioned ranges represent management's best estimate of results based upon the underlying assumptions as of the date of this press release.
 
The Company believes that Diluted Funds From Operations per common share is an important supplemental measure of operating performance for a real estate investment trust. Because the historical cost accounting convention used for real estate assets requires straight-line depreciation (except on land), such accounting presentation implies that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time. Since real estate values instead have historically risen and fallen with market conditions, presentations of operating results for a real estate investment trust that use historical cost accounting for depreciation could be less informative. The term FFO was designed by the real estate investment trust industry to address this issue.
(2)
         
 
FFO is defined as net income (computed in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles), excluding gains or losses from real estate dispositions, plus real estate depreciation and amortization, with adjustments for joint ventures. Adjustments for joint ventures are calculated to reflect FFO on the same basis. FFO does not represent cash generated from operating activities in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, is not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund cash needs and should not be considered an alternative to net income.  A reconciliation of net income applicable to common shares to FFO applicable to common shares is provided herein.
 
.

 
Exh
ibit 99.2
 
 
 
[LOGO]
OGO]
[
L
 
 
Additionally, the Company provides mortgage financing on healthcare facilities. References herein to "HCP," the "Company," "we," "us" and "our" include Health Care Property Investors, Inc. and our consolidated subsidiaries and joint ventures, unless the context otherwise requires.
ventures, invests in healthcare related properties located throughout the United States. The Company acquires healthcare facilities and leases them to healthcare providers.
Health Care Property Investors, Inc., a Maryland corporation organized in 1985, is a real estate investment trust ("REIT") that, together with its consolidated subsidiaries and joint
 
The Company is organized to invest in income-producing healthcare related facilities. Our primary goal is to increase shareholder value through profitable growth. Our investment strategy to achieve this goal is based on three principles  opportunistic investing, portfolio diversification and conservative financing.
 
The Company makes real estate investments that are expected to drive profitable growth and create long-term shareholder value. We attempt to position ourselves to create and take advantage of situations where we believe the opportunities meet our goals and investment criteria. We invest in properties directly and through joint ventures, and provide secured financing, depending on the nature of the investment opportunity.
Opportunistic Investing.
 
The Company believes in maintaining a portfolio of healthcare related real estate diversified by sector, geography, operator and investment product. Diversification within the healthcare industry reduces the likelihood that a single event would materially harm our business. This allows us to take advantage of opportunities in different markets based on individual market dynamics. While pursuing our strategy of attaining diversification in our portfolio, there are no specific limitations on the percentage
Portfolio Diversification.
our total assets that may be invested in any one property, property type, geographic location or in the number of properties in which we may invest, lease or lend to a single operator.
of
 
The Company believes a conservative balance sheet provides the ability to execute our opportunistic investing approach and portfolio diversification principles. We maintain our conservative balance sheet by actively managing our debt to equity levels and maintaining available sources of liquidity. Our debt is primarily fixed rate, which reduces the impact of rising interest rates on our operations. Generally, we attempt to match the long-term duration of our leases with long-term fixed rate financing.
Conservative Financing.
 
As of June 30, 2005, the Company's portfolio of properties, excluding assets held for sale but including investments through joint ventures and mortgage loans, included 529 properties in 42 states and consisted of:
 
28 hospitals
 -  
165 skilled nursing facilities
 -  
121 assisted living and continuing care retirement communities
 -  
191 medical office buildings
 -  
24 other healthcare facilities
 -  
 
The information in this supplemental information package should be read in conjunction with the Company's annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and other information filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The Reporting Definitions and Supplemental Financial Disclosures are an integral part of the information presented herein.
 
You can access, free of charge, a copy of the periodic and current reports we file with the SEC on our website at www.hcpi.com. Our periodic and current reports are made available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after these reports are filed with the SEC.
 
For more information, contact Talya Nevo-Hacohen, Senior Vice President  Strategic Development and Treasurer at (562) 733-5100.
 
Board of Directors
 
Mary A. Cirillo
Former Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer, OPCENTER
Compensation Committee
Nominating and Corporate
Governance Committee
 
Robert R. Fanning, Jr.
Chief Operating Officer, Saint Vincent
Catholic Medical Centers of New York
Audit Committee
 
James F. Flaherty III
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Health Care Property Investors, Inc.
 
David B. Henry
Vice Chairman and Chief Investment
Officer, Kimco Realty Corporation
Audit Committee
Nominating and Corporate
Governance Committee
 
Michael D. McKee
Vice Chairman and Chief Operating
Officer, The Irvine Company
Chairperson, Compensation Committee
 
Harold M. Messmer, Jr.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Robert Half International, Inc.
Compensation Committee
Nominating and Corporate
Governance Committee
 
Peter L. Rhein
Partner
Sarlot & Rhein
Chairperson, Audit Committee
 
Kenneth B. Roath
Chairman Emeritus
Health Care Property Investors, Inc.
 
Richard M. Rosenberg
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
(Retired), Bank of America
Lead Director
Chairperson, Nominating and
Corporate Governance Committee
 
Joseph P. Sullivan
Former Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer, Protocare, Inc.
Audit Committee
 
Senior Management
 
Charles A. Elcan
Executive Vice President
Medical Office Properties
 
James F. Flaherty III
Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer
 
Paul F. Gallagher
Executive Vice President
Portfolio Strategy
 
Edward J. Henning
Senior Vice President
General Counsel and
Corporate Secretary
 
F. Scott Kellman
Senior Vice President
Business Development
 
Thomas M. Klaritch
Senior Vice President
Medical Office Properties
 
Stephen R. Maulbetsch
Executive Vice President
Acquisitions and Dispositions
 
Talya Nevo-Hacohen
Senior Vice President
Strategic Development and Treasurer
 
Mark A. Wallace
Senior Vice President
Chief Financial Officer
 
Company Information
 
Corporate Headquarters
3760 Kilroy Airport Way
Suite 300
Long Beach, CA 90806-2473
(562) 733-5100
 
Nashville Office
3100 West End Avenue
Suite 800
Nashville, TN 37203
(615) 324-6900
 
Senior Debt Ratings
 
Stock Exchange Listing
NYSE (US Dollar)
 
Trading Symbol
 
 
Year-to-date through August 1, 2005, the Company has made secured loans and acquired interests in properties aggregating $441 million, including the following:
 
living facilities for approximately $252 million, including assumed debt valued at approximately $52 million, through a sale-leaseback transaction. These facilities have an initial lease term of 15 years, with three ten-year renewal options. The initial annual lease rate is approximately 7.1% with annual escalators based on the Consumer Price Index ("CPI") that have a floor of 3%. Eleven of the facilities have an average occupancy of 91%. One facility will be placed into service in August 2005 and is currently 34% pre-leased.
On July 22, 2005, the Company acquired twelve independent and assisted
 
approximately $16 million through a sale-leaseback transaction. The facility has an initial lease term of 15 years, with two ten-year renewal options. The initial annual lease rate is approximately 8.75% with annual CPI-based escalators that have a floor of 2.75%. The property is currently 96% occupied and a 60-unit expansion is planned.
On July 1, 2005, the Company acquired an assisted living facility for
 
As previously announced, on April 28, 2005, the Company acquired five medical office buildings for approximately $81 million, including assumed debt valued at $29 million. The initial yield is 7.0% with two properties currently in lease-up.  The yield following lease-up is expected to be 8.2%.  The medical office buildings include approximately 537,000 rentable square feet.
 
assisted living facilities for $58 million through a sale-leaseback transaction. These facilities have an initial lease term of 15 years, with two ten-year renewal options. The initial annual lease rate is approximately 9.0% with annual CPI-based escalators that have a floor of 2.75%. These properties are included in a new master lease along with five other properties currently leased to the operator.
As previously announced, on April 20, 2005, the Company acquired five
 
Year-to-date through August 1, 2005, the Company sold interests in ten properties for approximately $48 million and recognized a gain of approximately $9 million. During the quarter ended June 30, 2005, the Company sold interests in six properties for approximately $13 million and recognized a gain of approximately $4 million.
 
 
Notes which accrued interest at a rate of 7.55%. These notes were repaid with funds available under the Company's bank line of credit.
On June 15, 2005, the Company repaid $10 million of maturing Medium Term
 
Company's $200 million principal amount of 6.875% Mandatory Par Put Remarketed Securities ("MOPPRS"). The Remarketing Dealer redeemed the securities from the holders at par plus accrued interest, and reissued ten-year senior notes with a coupon of 7.072%.
On June 3, 2005, the Remarketing Dealer exercised its option to redeem the
 
notes due 2017. The notes were priced at 99.585% of the principal amount for an effective yield of 5.673%. The Company received proceeds of $247 million, which were used to repay borrowings under the bank line of credit and for general corporate purposes.
On April 27, 2005, the Company issued $250 million of 5 5/8% senior unsecured
 
 
cash dividend of $0.42 per share of common stock. The common stock cash dividend will be paid on August 19, 2005, to stockholders of record as of the close of business on August 8, 2005.
On July 27, 2005, the Company announced that its Board declared a quarterly
 
President and Chief Executive Officer, as Chairman of the Board of Directors. Flaherty succeeded Kenneth B. Roath who became Chairman Emeritus andremained a director of the Company.
On May 16, 2005, the Company announced the election of James F. Flaherty III,
 
Maulbetsch to Executive Vice President  Acquisitions and Dispositions. Maulbetsch has been with the Company for 20 years, most recently as Senior Vice President  Acquisitions and Dispositions.
On May 12, 2005, the Company announced the promotion of Stephen R.
 
Senior Vice President  Business Development effective June 1, 2005. Kellman joined the Company and its senior management team to assist in furtherimplementing growth initiatives at HCP.
On April 27, 2005, the Company announced the addition of F. Scott Kellman as
 
 
In thousands
 
 
 
In thousands, except per share data
 
 
 
In thousands, except per share data
 
 
 
In thousands
 
 
 
In thousands
 
 
 
In thousands
 
 
 
 
Consolidated debt reflects book value.
(1) 
 
In thousands, except per share data
 
 
 
 
 
Each convertible partnership unit is exchangeable for an amount of cash approximating the market value of two shares of the Company's common stock at time of conversion or, at the Company's option, two shares of the Company's common stock.
(1)
         
Consolidated debt reflects book value.
(2)
         
 
 
As of and for the six months ended June 30, 2005 Dollars and square feet in thousands
 
Owned Property and Secured Loan Portfolios - Overview by property type
 
 
Owned Property and Secured Loan Portfolios - Operator concentration
 
 
Reconciliation of Net Income to NOI
 
 
 
As
of for the six months ended June 30, 2005
and
Dollars and square feet in thousands
 
Owned Property Portfolio - Overview by type
 
 
Owned Property Portfolio - Overview by state
 
 
Secured Loan Portfolio - Overview by type
 
 
Dollars and square feet in thousands
 
 
Straight-line rents for ALF & CCRCs include the impact of straight-line rent recognized for ARC beginning in the fourth quarter of 2004.
(1)
         
Amortization of other lease intangibles includes the impact of HCP's purchase price allocation related to its 2003 acquisition of certain properties acquired from MedCap Properties, LLC.
(2)
         
 
 
 
In thousands
 
 
Lease expirations over the next five years only.
(1)
         
 
 
In thousands
 
 
 
In thousands
 
 
 
In thousands
 
 
 
In thousands
 
 
 
 
Total debt reflects book value.
(1) 
See Reporting Definitions and Supplemental Financial Measures Disclosures
 
As of and for the six months ended June 30, 2005
Dollars and square feet in thousands
 
Portfolio overview
 
 
Lease expiration summary
 
 
Lease expirations over the next five years only.
(1) 
 
See Reporting Definitions and Supplemental Financial Measures Disclosures
 
Dollars and square feet in thousands
 
 
 
.  Assisted living facility.
ALF
 
.  The most recent monthly interest and principal amortization due to HCP as of period end annualized for twelve months.  The Company uses Annualized Debt Service for purposes of determining Debt Service Coverage.
Annualized Debt Service
 
The annualized future minimum rents due to HCP in the year of lease expiration.
Annualized Expiring Rent.
 
.  The most recent monthly base rent due to HCP as of period end annualized for twelve months plus additional rents received by HCP over the most recent twelve month period as of period end.  The Company uses Annualized Rent for purposes of determining property level Cash Flow Coverage.
Annualized Rent
 
.  Assets of discontinued operations in accordance with SFAS No. 144, .
Assets Held for Sale
Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets
 
.  Hospitals and skilled nursing facilities are measured by licensed bed count.  ALFs and CCRCs are stated in units (e.g., studio, one or two bedroom units).  MOBs and other healthcare facilities are measured in square feet.
Beds/Units/Square Feet
 
.  The carrying amount as reported in the Company's financial statements.
Book Value
 
.  Facility level EBITDAR of the property's operator (not the Company) for the most recent twelve months of available data divided by the Annualized Rent.  Cash Flow Coverage is a supplemental measure of the property's ability to generate cash flow to meet related rent and other obligations to the Company.  However, its usefulness is limited by, among other things, the same factors that limit the usefulness of EBITDAR.  The coverages shown exclude newly completed facilities under start-up, vacant facilities and facilities for which data is not available or meaningful.  Results exclude data related to hospitals leased to HealthSouth until HealthSouth provides assurance about its financial information. Results also exclude data related to ALFs leased to Emeritus since the operator has elected not to allocate the cost of a recent liability judgment to each of the facilities until the ultimate outcome of that judgment is clear.
Cash Flow Coverage
 
.  Continuing care retirement community.
CCRC
 
.  The periodic payment of interest expense and principal amortization on secured loans.
Debt Service
 
. Facility level EBITDAR of the property's operator (not the Company) for the most recent twelve months of available data divided by the Annualized Debt Service. Debt Service Coverage is a supplemental measure of the property's ability to generate sufficient cash flow to meet related obligations to the Company under loan agreements.  However, its usefulness is limited by the same factors that limit the usefulness of EBITDAR.  The coverages shown exclude newly completed facilities under start-up, vacant facilities and facilities for which data is not available or meaningful. Results exclude data related to one ALF that secures a loan to Emeritus since the operator has elected not to allocate the cost of a recent liability judgment to this facility until the ultimate outcome of that judgment is clear.
Debt Service Coverage
 
.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and rent for a particular facility accruing to the operator of the property (not the Company). The Company uses Facility EBITDAR in determining Debt Service Coverage and Cash Flow Coverage.  EBITDAR as an analytical tool has limitations similar to EBITDA.  However, the Company receives periodic financial information from operators regarding the performance of the Company's facilities under the operator's management.  The Company utilizes Facility EBITDAR as a supplemental measure of the ability of those properties to generate sufficient liquidity to meet related obligations to the Company.  Facility EBITDAR includes an imputed management fee of 2% for acute care hospitals and 5% for skilled nursing facilities, ALFs and CCRCs which the Company believes represents typical management fees in their respective industries.  All facility financial performance data was derived solely from information provided by lessees and borrowers without verification by the Company.
Facility EBITDAR
 
. For MOBs and other healthcare properties, facility occupancy represents the percentage of rentable square feet occupied. For hospitals, skilled nursing facilities, ALFs and CCRCs, facility occupancy represents the facilities' operating occupancy for each quarter based on the most recent quarter of available data.  The percentages are calculated based on licensed beds, available beds and units for hospitals, skilled nursing facilities, ALFs and CCRCs, respectively.  The percentages shown exclude newly completed facilities under start-up, vacant facilities and facilities for which data is not available or meaningful.  All facility financial performance data were derived solely from information provided by lessees and borrowers.
Facility Occupancy
.  Future minimum lease payments to be received by HCP, excluding operating expense reimbursements, from tenants under non-cancelable operating leases as of period end.
Fu
t
ure Minimum Rents
 
.  U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
GAAP
 
.  HCP Medical Office Portfolio, LLC, an unconsolidated joint venture formed between the Company and an affiliate of General Electric Company ("GE"), for which the Company is managing member and has a 33% interest therein.
HCP MOP
 
The carrying amount of real estate assets, including intangibles, after adding back accumulated depreciation and amortization and the carrying amount of mortgage loans receivable.  Excludes assets held for sale and classified as discontinued operations.
Investment.
 
 
.  The total number of outstanding shares of the Company's common stock and convertible partnership units multiplied by the closing price per share of its common stock on the New York Stock Exchange as of period end plus the total number of outstanding shares of the Company's preferred stock multiplied by the closing price of its preferred stock on the New York Stock Exchange as of period end.
Market Equity
 
.  Medical office building.
MOB
 
.  Physician group practice clinics, healthcare laboratory and laboratory research facilities, and health and wellness centers.
"Other" Property Type
 
.  An important component of the Company's evaluation of the operating performance of its properties.  The Company defines its same property portfolio each quarter as those properties that have been in operation throughout the current year and the prior year and that were also in operation at January 1st of the prior year.  Newly acquired assets, developments in process and assets held for sale are excluded from the same property portfolio.  Accordingly, when a property is disposed of to a third party, it will be removed from the same property portfolio for the current and prior year reporting periods, but previously presented quarterly information will not be changed.  Same property statistics allow management to evaluate the NOI of its real estate portfolio as a consistent population from period to period and eliminates the effects of changes in the composition of the properties on performance measures.
Same Property Performance ("SPP")
 
.  Mortgage debt secured by real estate.
Secured Debt
 
.  The square footage for properties either owned directly by the Company or which the Company has a controlling interest (e.g., consolidated joint ventures) and excludes square footage for development properties prior to completion.
Square Feet Owned
 
.  The carrying amount of consolidated debt plus the carrying amount of stockholders' equity.
Total Book Capitalization
 
.  Consolidated debt at Book Value plus total Market Equity.
Total Market Capitalization
 
.  The carrying amount of the Company's real estate assets, including intangibles, after adding back accumulated depreciation and amortization.
Undepreciated Book Value
 
.  Total interest expense plus capitalized interest plus preferred stock dividends.  The Company uses Adjusted Fixed Charges to measure its interest payments on outstanding debt and dividends to its preferred shareholders for purposes of presenting Adjusted Fixed Charge Coverage. However, the usefulness of Adjusted Fixed Charges is limited as, among other things, it does not include all contractual obligations.  The Company's computation of Adjusted Fixed Charges should not be considered an alternative to fixed charges as defined by Item 503(d) of Regulation S-K and may not be comparable to fixed charges reported by other companies.
Adjusted Fixed Charges
 
.  EBITDA divided by Adjusted Fixed Charges.  The Company uses Adjusted Fixed Charge Coverage to measure its liquidity. The Company believes Adjusted Fixed Charge Coverage provides investors, particularly fixed income investors, relevant and useful information because it measures the Company's ability to meet its interest payments on outstanding debt and pay dividends to its preferred shareholders. The Company's various debt agreements contain covenants that require the Company to maintain ratios similar to Adjusted Fixed Charge Coverage and credit rating agencies utilize similar ratios in evaluating and determining the credit rating on certain debt instruments of the Company.  However, since this ratio is derived from EBITDA and Adjusted Fixed Charges, its usefulness is limited by the same factors that limit the usefulness of EBITDA and Adjusted Fixed Charges.  Further, the Company's computation of Adjusted Fixed Charge Coverage may not be comparable to similar fixed charge coverage ratios reported by other companies.
Adjusted Fixed Charge Coverage
 
The real estate industry uses earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ("EBITDA") to measure both operating performance and liquidity.  The Company's presentation of EBITDA herein is solely as a non-GAAP liquidity measure in connection with the presentation of Adjusted Fixed Charge Coverage.  As a liquidity measure, the Company believes that EBITDA helps investors analyze the Company's ability to meet its interest payments on outstanding debt and to make preferred dividend payments. The Company's various debt agreements contain covenants that require the Company to maintain ratios similar to Adjusted Fixed Charge Coverage and credit rating agencies utilize similar ratios in evaluating and determining the credit rating on certain debt instruments of the Company.  The Company believes investors should consider EBITDA in conjunction with cash flow from operating activities, and other required measures under GAAP, to improve their understanding of the Company's liquidity.  EBITDA has limitations as an analytical tool and should be used in conjunction with the Company's required GAAP presentations.  EBITDA does not reflect the Company's historical cash expenditures or future cash requirements for capital expenditures or contractual commitments.  Also, EBITDA does not reflect the cash required to make interest and principal payments on the Company's outstanding debt.  The Company believes cash flow from operating activities is the most directly comparable GAAP measure to EBITDA.  EBITDA does not represent net income or cash flow from operations as defined by GAAP and should not be considered an alternative to those indicators. Further, the Company's computation of EBITDA may not be comparable to similar measures reported by other companies.
EBITDA.
 
 
.  The Company believes that net income as defined by GAAP is the most appropriate earnings measure.  The Company also believes that Funds From Operations, or FFO, as defined by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT") and Basic and Diluted FFO per common share are important non-GAAP supplemental measures of operating performance for a real estate investment trust.  Because the historical cost accounting convention used for real estate assets requires straight-line depreciation (except on land), such accounting presentation implies that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time.  However, since real estate values have historically risen or fallen with market and other conditions, presentations of operating results for a real estate investment trust that use historical cost accounting for depreciation could be less informative.  Thus, NAREIT created FFO as a supplemental measure of operating performance for real estate investment trusts that excludes historical cost depreciation and amortization, among other items, from net income, as defined by GAAP. FFO is defined as net income, computed in accordance with GAAP, excluding gains or losses from real estate dispositions, plus real estate depreciation and amortization, with adjustments to derive the Company's pro rata share of FFO from consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures.  Adjustments for joint ventures are calculated to reflect FFO on the same basis.  The Company believes that the use of FFO, combined with the required GAAP presentations, improves the understanding of operating results of real estate investment trusts among investors and makes comparisons of operating results among such companies more meaningful.  The Company considers FFO to be a useful measure for reviewing comparative operating and financial performance because, by excluding gains or losses related to sales of previously depreciated operating real estate assets and real estate depreciation and amortization, FFO can help investors compare the operating performance of a real estate investment trust between periods or as compared to other companies. While FFO is a relevant and widely used measure of operating performance of real estate investment trusts, it does not represent cash flow from operations or net income as defined by GAAP and should not be considered an alternative to those measures in evaluating the Company's liquidity or operating performance. FFO also does not consider the costs associated with capital expenditures related to the Company's real estate assets nor is FFO necessarily indicative of cash available to fund the Company's future cash requirements. Further, the Company's computation of FFO may not be comparable to FFO reported by other real estate investment trusts that do not define the term in accordance with the current NAREIT definition or that interpret the current NAREIT definition differently from the Company.
Funds From Operations ("FFO")
.  Dividends declared per common share divided by Diluted FFO per common share for a given period.  The Company believes the FFO Payout Ratio provides investors relevant and useful information because it measures the portion of FFO being declared as dividends to common shareholders.
FF
O
Payout Ratio per Common Share
 
.  A supplemental financial measure used to evaluate the operating performance of real estate properties and same property performance, or "SPP."  The Company defines NOI from continuing operations as rental revenues, including tenant reimbursements, less property level operating expenses, which exclude depreciation and amortization, general and administrative expenses and interest expense.  The Company believes NOI provides investors relevant and useful information because it measures the operating performance of the Company's real estate at the property level on an unleveraged basis, independent of related secured debt. NOI, as adjusted, is calculated as NOI eliminating the effects of straight-line rents, amortization of other lease intangibles and lease termination fees.  The Company uses NOI and NOI, as adjusted, to make decisions about resource allocations, to assess and compare property level performance, and evaluate SPP.  The company believes that net income is the most directly comparable GAAP measure to NOI.  NOI should not be viewed as an alternative measure of operating performance to net income as defined by GAAP since it does not reflect the aforementioned excluded items.  Further, NOI may not be comparable to that of other real estate investment trusts, as they may use different methodologies for calculating NOI.
Net Operating Income from Continuing Operations ("NOI")
 
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: The statements contained in this supplemental information package and the conference call to be held in connection therewith, which are not historical facts, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in or implied by forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include competition for the acquisition and financing of health care facilities, competition for lessees and mortgagors (including new leases and mortgages and the renewal or rollover of existing leases); continuing operational difficulties in the skilled nursing and assisted living sectors; the Company's ability to acquire, sell or lease facilities and the timing of acquisitions, sales and leasings; changes in healthcare laws and regulations and other changes in the healthcare industry which affect the operations of the Company's lessees or mortgagors; changes in management; costs of compliance with building regulations; changes in tax laws and regulations; changes in the financial position of the Company's lessees and mortgagors; changes in rules governing financial reporting, including new accounting pronouncements; and changes in economic conditions, including changes in interest rates and the availability and cost of capital, which affect opportunities for profitable investments. Some of these risks, and other risks, are described from time to time in Health Care Property Investors, Inc.'s Securities and Exchange Commission filings.


