FILE:HCP/HCP-8K-20050503080127.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On May 2, 2005, we issued a press release, which sets forth our results of operations for the quarter ended March 31, 2005. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. Such information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and is not incorporated by reference into any filing of the company, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
99.1 Press Release of Health Care Property Investors, Inc. dated May 2, 2005.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
NEWS RELEASE
 
HEALTH CARE PROPERTY INVESTORS, INC.
REPORTS RESULTS FOR THE QUARTER ENDED MARCH 31, 2005
 
LONG BEACH, CA, May 2, 2005  Health Care Property Investors, Inc. (NYSE:HCP), a healthcare real estate investment trust ("REIT"), today announced operating results for the quarter ended March 31, 2005. Net income applicable to common shares for the quarter ended March 31, 2005 was $38.2 million, or $0.28 per diluted share of common stock. This compares with net income applicable to common shares of $41.6 million, or $0.31 per diluted share of common stock for the quarter ended March 31, 2004.
 
Funds From Operations ("FFO") was $58.9 million, or $0.44 per diluted share of common stock, for the quarter ended March 31, 2005, compared to FFO of $54.0 million, or $0.41 per diluted share of common stock, for the quarter ended March 31, 2004. FFO is a supplemental non-GAAP financial measure used to evaluate the operating performance of real estate investment trusts.
 
RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COMPANY INFORMATION
 
Health Care Property Investors, Inc. has scheduled a conference call and webcast for Tuesday, May 3, 2005 at 9:00 a.m. Pacific Time (12:00 p.m. Eastern Time) in order to present the Company's performance and operating results for the quarter ended March 31, 2005. The conference call is accessible by dialing 800-510-9836 (U.S.) and 617-614-3670 (International). The participant pass code is 83697469. The webcast is accessible via the Company's Internet web site at . A webcast replay of the conference call will be available after 2:00 p.m. Eastern Time on May 3, 2005 through May 17, 2005 on the Company's web site.
www.hcpi.com
 
Health Care Property Investors, Inc. (NYSE:HCP) is a self-administered real estate investment trust ("REIT") that invests directly or through joint ventures in healthcare facilities. As of March 31, 2005, the Company's portfolio of properties, including investments through joint ventures and mortgage loans, included 525 properties in 43 states and consisted of 28 hospitals, 169 skilled nursing facilities, 118 assisted living and continuing care retirement communities, 186 medical office buildings and 24 other health care facilities. For more information on Health Care Property Investors, Inc., visit the Company's web site at .
www.hcpi.com
 
 
Contact:
 
Health Care Property Investors, Inc., Long Beach, California
 
Talya Nevo-Hacohen
Senior Vice President  Strategic Development and Treasurer
(562) 733-5104
 
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: The statements contained in this release and in the supplement, which are not historical facts, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in or implied by forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include competition for the acquisition and financing of health care facilities, competition for lessees and mortgagors (including new leases and mortgages and the renewal or rollover of existing leases); continuing operational difficulties in the skilled nursing and assisted living sectors; the Company's ability to acquire, sell or lease facilities and the timing of acquisitions, sales and leasings; changes in healthcare laws and regulations and other changes in the healthcare industry which affect the operations of the Company's lessees or mortgagors; changes in management; costs of compliance with building regulations; changes in tax laws and regulations; changes in the financial position of the Company's lessees and mortgagors; changes in rules governing financial reporting, including new accounting pronouncements; and changes in economic conditions, including changes in interest rates and the availability and cost of capital, which affect opportunities for profitable investments. Some of these risks, and other risks, are described from time to time in Health Care Property Investors, Inc.'s Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company defines FFO as net income applicable to common shares (computed in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles), excluding gains or losses from real estate dispositions, plus real estate depreciation and amortization, with adjustments for joint ventures. Adjustments for joint ventures are calculated to reflect FFO on the same basis. FFO does not represent cash generated from operating activities in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, is not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund cash needs, and should not be considered an alternative to net income. A reconciliation of net income applicable to common shares to FFO is provided herein.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
QUARTERLY RESULTS:
 
 
The Company defines FFO as Net Income applicable to common shares (computed in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles), excluding gains (or losses) from real estate dispositions, plus real estate depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for joint ventures. Adjustments for joint ventures are calculated to reflect FFO on the same basis. FFO does not represent cash generated from operating activities in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, is not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund cash needs and should not be considered an alternative to net income.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION
 
The following summarizes certain information for the quarters ended March 31, 2005 and 2004:
 
 
 
PORTFOLIO - OVERVIEW BY INVESTMENT
 
 
PORTFOLIO - OVERVIEW BY PROPERTY TYPE
 
 
OPERATOR CONCENTRATION  OWNED AND SECURED LOAN PORTFOLIO
 
 
 
OWNED PROPERTY PORTFOLIO - OVERVIEW BY TYPE
 
 
OWNED PROPERTY PORTFOLIO - OVERVIEW BY STATE
 
 
OWNED PROPERTY PORTFOLIO - SAME-PROPERTY GROWTH
(1) (2)
 
 
 
SECURED LOAN PORTFOLIO - OVERVIEW BY PROPERTY TYPE
 
 
UNCONSOLIDATED JOINT VENTURES
 
 
 
NOTES AND GLOSSARY FOR SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL AND OPERATING INFORMATION
 
General Note
 
The data provided in the Supplemental Financial and Operating Information reflects financial and operating information for assets in HCP's portfolio as of March 31, 2005, but excludes all data related to assets sold/repaid and assets held for sale as of and for the three months ended March 31, 2005, unless otherwise indicated.
 
Glossary
 
: Assisted living facility.
ALF
 
: Assets that are classified as discontinued operations in accordance with SFAS No. 144, . At March 31, 2005, 11 assets classified as discontinued operations are included in our consolidated balance sheet under real estate, and one asset owned by HCP MOP is classified by the venture as discontinued operations. The 12 assets classified in discontinued operations include six skilled nursing facilities, two ALFs, two MOBs and two Other facilities.
Assets Held for Sale
Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets
 
: Hospitals and skilled nursing facilities are measured by licensed bed count. ALFs and CCRCs are stated in units (studio, one or two bedroom units). MOBs and other health care facilities are measured in square feet.
Beds/Units/Square Feet
 
: Represents the facilities' EBITDAR for the most recent twelve months of available data divided by the annualized rent due to HCP. EBITDAR includes an imputed management fee of 2% for acute care hospitals and 5% for skilled nursing and ALF & CCRC, which HCP believes represents typical management fees in their respective industries. The coverages shown exclude newly completed facilities under start-up, vacant facilities, and facilities for which data is not available or meaningful. Results exclude data related to nine rehabilitation hospitals leased to HealthSouth until HealthSouth provides assurance about its financial information. Results also exclude data related to 36 ALFs leased to Emeritus since the operator has elected not to allocate the cost of a recent liability judgment to each of the facilities until the ultimate outcome of that judgment is clear.
Cash Flow Coverage
 
: Continuing care retirement community.
CCRC
 
Represents the periodic payment of principal (excluding balloon payment) and interest expense on secured loans.
Debt Service:
 
: Represents the facilities' EBITDAR for the most recent 12 months of available data divided by the annualized debt service due to HCP. EBITDAR includes an imputed management fee of 2% for acute care hospitals and 5% for skilled nursing and ALF & CCRC which HCP believes represents typical management fees in their respective industries. The coverages shown exclude newly completed facilities under start-up, vacant facilities, and facilities for which data is not available or meaningful. Results exclude data related to one ALF that secures a loan to Emeritus since the operator has elected not to allocate the cost of a recent liability judgment to this facility until the ultimate outcome of that judgment is clear.
Debt Service Coverage
 
: Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation, Amortization and Rent. An approximate measure of a facility's operating cash flow based on data from the facility's income statement provided by the lessee or borrower.
EBITDAR
 
: The Company defines FFO as Net Income applicable to common shares (computed in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles), excluding gains or losses from real estate dispositions, plus real estate depreciation and amortization, with adjustments for joint ventures. Adjustments for joint ventures are calculated to reflect FFO on the same basis. FFO does not represent cash generated from operating activities in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, is not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund cash needs and should not be considered an alternative to net income.
FFO
 
: HCP Medical Office Portfolio, LLC, an unconsolidated joint venture, for which the Company is managing member and has a 33% interest therein.
HCP MOP
 
: Represents the carrying amount of our real estate assets after adding back accumulated depreciation for owned properties and the carrying amount of our investment in unconsolidated joint ventures and mortgage loans receivable. Excludes assets to be sold and classified as discontinued operations.
Investment
 
: Medical office building.
MOB
 
: For hospitals, skilled nursing facilities and ALF & CCRC, this represents the facilities' operating occupancy for the most recent two quarters of available data. The percentages are calculated based on licensed beds, available beds and units for hospitals, skilled nursing facilities and ALF & CCRC, respectively. The percentages shown exclude newly completed facilities under start-up, vacant facilities, and facilities for which data is not available or meaningful. All facility operating performance data were derived solely from information provided by lessees and borrowers. For MOBs and Other properties, this represents the percentage of rentable square feet occupied.
Occupancy
 
: Consists of physician group practice clinics, healthcare laboratory and laboratory research facilities, and health and wellness centers.
"Other" Property Type
 
: Because the tenant is responsible for operating expenses under a triple net lease, management believes revenues are not comparable between property types without deducting our operating expenses for properties leased under gross or modified gross leases. Operating expenses are property level costs and exclude depreciation expense. Revenue includes tenant reimbursements for operating costs and excludes non-property related revenue. Revenue less operating expenses for our secured loan portfolio and unconsolidated joint ventures represents interest income and equity income from unconsolidated joint ventures, respectively.
Revenues Less Operating Expenses
 


