FILE:HCP/HCP-8K-20061012165916.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(D) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
October 5, 2006
HEALTH CARE PROPERTY INVESTORS, inc.
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
        Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
        Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
        Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
        Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
Item 1.01  
Entry into a Material Agreement. 
           
On October 5, 2006, in connection with the consummation of the previously announced merger of CNL Retirement Properties, Inc., a Maryland corporation ("CRP"), with a wholly owned subsidiary of Health Care Property Investors, Inc., a Maryland corporation ("HCP"), HCP entered into two new credit agreements, each with Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent, and a syndicate of banks, as lenders.
Under the new bridge facility credit agreement, the lenders made a $705,729,000 term loan maturing on October 3, 2007, which was drawn in full at closing.  Under the new bank facility credit agreement, the lenders made a $1,700,000,000 term loan maturing on October 3, 2008, which was drawn in full at closing, and made three-year revolving loan commitments in an aggregate amount of $1,000,000,000, a portion of which was drawn at closing.  The proceeds of the term loans and revolving loans, together with cash on hand, were used to pay the cash portion of the merger consideration in connection with the CRP transaction, and to pay the fees and expenses in connection therewith.
HCP's obligations under the new credit agreements are senior unsecured obligations of HCP, ranking with other unsecured, unsubordinated general obligations of HCP, and are guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by certain subsidiaries of HCP.
pari passu
The term loans outstanding under the bridge facility credit agreement and the bank facility credit agreement each bear interest at a rate per annum equal to LIBOR plus a margin ranging from 0.60% to 1.35%, depending upon HCP's senior unsecured long term debt ratings.  Revolving loans outstanding under the bank facility credit agreement bear interest at a rate per annum equal to LIBOR plus a margin ranging from 0.475% to 1.10%, depending upon HCP's senior unsecured long term debt ratings.
The new credit agreements contain covenants that are substantially similar to as the covenants in HCP's existing $500 million credit agreement dated October 26, 2004 with Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent, and a syndicate of other banks and commercial lenders, as lenders, which credit agreement was terminated concurrently with the closing of the two new credit agreements.  These covenants include, among others:
a restriction on incurring priority debt, including secured debt and debt of HCP's subsidiaries that are not guarantors of HCP's obligations under the credit agreements;
     
a restriction on repurchasing or redeeming capital stock;
     
restrictions on merging, dissolving, liquidating or selling substantially all consolidated assets;
     
a restriction on certain investments;
     
a requirement that HCP maintain a maximum ratio of total debt to consolidated total assets (as defined);
     
a requirement that HCP maintain a maximum ratio of unsecured debt to consolidated unencumbered assets (as defined);
     
a requirement that HCP maintain a maximum ratio of secured debt to consolidated total assets (as defined);
     
a requirement that HCP maintain a minimum ratio of consolidated EBITDA to consolidated fixed charges; and
     
2
a requirement that HCP maintain a minimum consolidated tangible net worth.
     
The new credit agreements contain customary events of default.  If an event of default occurs and is continuing under either agreement, HCP might be required immediately to repay the loans and all other amounts outstanding under such agreement.  Lenders holding more than 50% of the loans and commitment under each new credit agreement may elect to accelerate the maturity of the loans outstanding under the respective credit agreements upon the occurrence and during the continuation of an event of default.
Bank of America, N.A., UBS AG, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Barclays Bank plc, and other lenders under the new credit agreements and their respective affiliates have in the past performed, and may in the future from time to time perform, investment banking, financial advisory, lending and/or commercial banking services for HCP and its affiliates, for which service they have in the past received, and may in the future receive, customary compensation and reimbursement of expenses.
The description of the new credit agreements set forth above is qualified by the Credit Agreement filed in this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 10.1 and the Credit Agreement filed in this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 10.2, each as incorporated herein by reference.
Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets.
Item 2.01
             
On October 5, 2006, HCP completed the merger (the "Merger") of CRP with a wholly owned subsidiary of HCP.  In the Merger, each share of CRP common stock was converted into the right to receive a cash payment of $11.1293 and 0.0865 of a share of HCP common stock, and HCP assumed or refinanced approximately $1.7 billion of CRP's outstanding debt.  Simultaneously with the closing of the Merger, HCP completed the merger of CNL Retirement Corp. ("CRC"), the external advisor to CRP, with a wholly owned subsidiary of HCP for merger consideration to the 10 stockholders of CRC consisting in the aggregate of 4,378,918 shares of HCP common stock.
As noted above, in connection with the completion of the Merger, HCP closed on new bridge, term and revolving credit facilities on October 5, 2006, providing for aggregate borrowings of up to $3.4 billion with Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent.  HCP also financed a portion of the cash consideration for the Merger through the issuance and sale on September 19, 2006 of $300 million principal amount of floating rate notes due 2008, $300 million principal amount of 5.95% notes due 2011 and $400 million principal amount of 6.30% notes due 2016.  Barclays Capital Inc. and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. acted as the joint bookrunning managers for the sale of the notes. 
The press release announcing the completion of the Merger, dated October 5, 2006, is attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 2.03
Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
             
The discussion in Item 1.01 above is hereby incorporated by reference. 
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Item 9.01 
            
Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired.
(a)
         
We have previously filed the following financial statements relating to CRP and CRC as Exhibits 99.3, 99.4, 99.5 and 99.6 to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 8, 2006:
3
CRP Financial Statements as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 and for the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005;
     
CRP Financial Statements for the six months ended June 30, 2006;
     
CRC Financial Statements as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 and for the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005; and
     
CRC Financial Statements for the six months ended June 30, 2006.  
     
To the extent required by this item, additional financial statements will be filed as part of an amendment to this report on Form 8-K no later than 71 calendar days after the date this report is required to be filed.
Pro Forma Financial Information.
(b)
         
We have previously filed pro forma financial information relating to the Merger for the periods ended June 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005 as Exhibit 99.2 to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 8, 2006. 
To the extent required by this item, additional pro forma financial information will be filed as part of an amendment to this report on Form 8-K no later than 71 calendar days after the date this report is required to be filed.
Shell Company Transactions.
(c)
         
Not applicable.
Exhibits.
(d)
         
HCP files exhibits 5.1 and 99.2 to, and incorporates such exhibits by reference in, the Registration Statement which was filed on September 11, 2006.
 
4
 
 
5
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
6

Exhibit 5.1
October 12, 2006
Health Care Property Investors, Inc.
3760 Kilroy Airport Way
Suite 300
Long Beach, California  90806
Re:
                              
Health Care Property Investors, Inc., a Maryland corporation (the "Company")
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We have acted as Maryland corporate counsel to the Company in connection with the registration of up to Four Million Three Hundred Seventy-Eight Thousand Nine Hundred Eighteen (4,378,918) shares (the "Shares") of common stock of the Company, par value one dollar ($1.00) per share ("Common Stock"), outstanding following the completion of the merger (the "Merger") of CNL Retirement Corp., a Florida corporation ("CNL"), with and into Ocean Acquisition 2, LLC, a Florida limited liability company and a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company ("Ocean Acquisition"), pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger (as defined herein), under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Act"), by the Company on Form S-3 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") on or about September 11, 2006 (the "Registration Statement").  You have requested our opinion with respect to the matters set forth below.
In our capacity as Maryland corporate counsel to the Company and for the purposes of this opinion, we have examined originals, or copies certified or otherwise identified to our satisfaction, of the following documents (collectively, the "Documents"):
the corporate charter of the Company (the "Charter"), consisting of Articles of Restatement filed with the State Department of Assessments and Taxation of Maryland (the "Department") on August 2, 2004 and Articles of Merger filed with the Department on November 30, 2004;
(i)
                                    
the Third Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company, dated as of July 22, 2004, and the Fourth Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company, dated as of September 20, 2006 (collectively, the "Bylaws");
(ii)
                                 
the Minutes of the Organizational Action of the Board of Directors of the Company, dated March 21, 1985 (the "Organizational Minutes");
(iii)
                              
resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors of the Company on May 1, 2006 (the "Directors' Resolutions");
(iv)
                             
the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of May 1, 2006, by and among the Company, Ocean Acquisition, CNL and the stockholders of CNL listed therein (the "Agreement and Plan of Merger");
(v)
                                
a certificate of Edward J. Henning, the Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of the Company, of even date herewith (the "Officer's Certificate"), to the effect that, among other things, the Charter, the Bylaws, the Organizational Minutes, the Directors' Resolutions and the Agreement and Plan of Merger are true, correct and complete, have not been rescinded or modified and are in full force and effect on the date of the Officer's Certificate, and certifying as to the manner of adoption of the Directors' Resolutions, the authorization of the issuance of the Shares and the receipt by the Company of consideration therefor, and the effectiveness of the Merger;
(vi)
                             
the Registration Statement and the related form of prospectus supplement included therein, in substantially the form filed or to be filed with the Commission pursuant to the Act;
(vii)
                          
a status certificate of the Department, dated as of a recent date, to the effect that the Company is duly incorporated and existing under the laws of the State of Maryland; and
(viii)
                       
such other laws, records, documents, certificates, opinions and instruments as we have deemed necessary to render this opinion, subject to the limitations, assumptions and qualifications noted below.
(ix)
                               
In reaching the opinions set forth below, we have assumed the following:
each person executing any instrument, document or agreement on behalf of any party (other than the Company) is duly authorized to do so;
(a)
                                 
2
each natural person executing any instrument, document or agreement is legally competent to do so;
(b)
                                
any of the Documents submitted to us as originals are authentic; the form and content of any Documents submitted to us as unexecuted drafts do not differ in any respect relevant to this opinion from the form and content of such documents as executed and delivered; any of the Documents submitted to us as certified or photostatic copies conform to the original documents; all signatures on all of the Documents are genuine; all public records reviewed or relied upon by us or on our behalf are true and complete; all statements and information contained in the Documents are true and complete; there has been no modification of, or amendment to, any of the Documents, and there has been no waiver of any provision of any of the Documents by action or omission of the parties or otherwise;
(c)
                                 
none of the Shares have been issued or transferred in violation of the provisions of Article V of the Charter relating to restrictions on ownership and transfer of stock or the provisions of Article V of the Charter relating to business combinations;
(d)
                                
none of the Shares have been issued and sold to an Interested Stockholder of the Company or an Affiliate thereof, all as defined in Subtitle 6 of Title 3 of the Maryland General Corporation Law (the "MGCL"), in violation of Section 3-602 of the MGCL; and
(e)
                                 
the Agreement and Plan of Merger has been duly authorized, executed and delivered and is the legal, valid and binding obligation of the parties thereto and is enforceable in accordance with its terms.
(f)
                                   
Based on the foregoing, and subject to the assumptions and qualifications set forth herein, it is our opinion that, as of the date of this letter:
The Company has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the State of Maryland.
1.
                                      
The issuance of the Shares has been authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of the Company, and the Shares have been validly issued and are fully paid and non-assessable.
2.
                                      
The foregoing opinion is limited to the substantive laws of the State of Maryland, and we do not express any opinion herein concerning any other law.  We express no opinion as to the applicability or effect of any federal or state securities laws, including the securities laws
3
of the State of Maryland, or as to federal or state laws regarding fraudulent transfers.  To the extent that any matter as to which our opinion is expressed herein would be governed by any jurisdiction other than the State of Maryland, we do not express any opinion on such matter.
This opinion letter is issued as of the date hereof and is necessarily limited to laws now in effect and facts and circumstances presently existing and brought to our attention.  We assume no obligation to supplement this opinion letter if any applicable laws change after the date hereof, or if we become aware of any facts or circumstances that now exist or that occur or arise in the future and may change the opinions expressed herein after the date hereof.
We consent to your filing this opinion as an exhibit to the Registration Statement and further consent to the filing of this opinion as an exhibit to the applications to securities commissioners for the various states of the United States for registration of the Shares.  We also consent to the identification of our firm as Maryland counsel to the Company in the section of the Registration Statement entitled "Validity of Securities".  In giving this consent, we do not admit that we are within the category of persons whose consent is required by Section 7 of the Act.
 
4

Exhibit 10.1
Published CUSIP Number:              
$705,729,000
CREDIT AGREEMENT
Dated as of October 5, 2006 among
HEALTH CARE PROPERTY INVESTORS, INC.
, as Borrower
THE GUARANTORS PARTY HERETO FROM TIME TO TIME
,
THE LENDERS PARTY HERETO FROM TIME TO TIME
and
BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.
, as Administrative Agent,
and
BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES LLC
and , as Joint Lead Arrangers
UBS SECURITIES LLC
and
BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES LLC
,, and, as Joint Bookrunners
UBS SECURITIES LLC
J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES INC.
BARCLAYS CAPITAL
UBS SECURITIES LLC
,as Syndication Agent
JPMORGAN CHASE BANK
,, , and , as Co-Documentation Agents
N.A.
BARCLAYS BANK PLC
WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
TABLE OF CONTENTS
 
i
 
 
 
ii
 
 
SCHEDULES
2.01         Commitments and Applicable Percentages
5.13         Subsidiaries; Other Equity Investments
10.02       Administrative Agent's Office; Certain Addresses for Notices
EXHIBITS
iii
CREDIT AGREEMENT
This CREDIT AGREEMENT, dated as of October 5, 2006 (as amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, this ""), among HEALTH CARE PROPERTY INVESTORS, INC., a Maryland corporation (the ""), the Subsidiary Guarantors party hereto from time to time (such term and each other capitalized term used but not defined herein having the meaning given to it in ), the lending institutions party hereto from time to time (each, a "" and collectively, the ""), BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., as Administrative Agent, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES LLC, as Joint Lead Arranger and Joint Bookrunner, UBS SECURITIES LLC, as Joint Lead Arranger, Joint Bookrunner and Syndication Agent, J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES INC., as Joint Bookrunner, BARCLAYS CAPITAL, as Joint Bookrunner, JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., as Co-Documentation Agent, BARCLAYS BANK PLC, as Co-Documentation Agent, and WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Co-Documentation Agent.
Agreement
Borrower
Article I
Lender
Lenders
WHEREAS, the Borrower has entered into an agreement and plan of merger (the ""), dated as of May 1, 2006, with CNL Retirement Properties, Inc., a Maryland corporation (""), and Ocean Acquisition 1, Inc., a Maryland corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of the Borrower (the ""), pursuant to which at the closing of the transactions contemplated by the CNL Merger Agreement, CNL shall merge with and into the CNL Merger Sub, and the CNL Merger Sub shall be the surviving entity, and the Borrower (or an affiliate of the Borrower) shall acquire all outstanding equity interests of CNL (the "").
CNL Merger Agreement
CNL
CNL Merger Sub
CNL Merger
WHEREAS, the Borrower has entered into an agreement and plan of merger (the ""), dated as of May 1, 2006, with CNL Retirement Corp., a Florida corporation (the ""), and Ocean Acquisition 2 LLC, a Florida limited liability company and a wholly owned subsidiary of the Borrower (the ""), pursuant to which at the closing of the transactions contemplated by the Advisor Merger Agreement, the Advisor shall merge with and into the Advisor Purchaser (the "") and the Advisor Purchaser shall be the surviving entity.
Advisor Merger Agreement
Advisor
Advisor Purchaser
Advisor Merger
WHEREAS, the Borrower has requested that the Lenders provide a bridge loan facility, and the Lenders are willing to do so on the terms and conditions set forth herein.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements herein contained, the parties hereto covenant and agree as follows:
1.01        .
Defined Terms
As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
"" means CNL and the Advisor and their Subsidiaries.
Acquired Business
"" means, collectively, the CNL Merger Agreement and the Advisor Merger Agreement.
Acquisition Agreements
"" shall mean the collective reference to the CNL Merger Agreement, the Advisor Merger Agreement and each amendment or supplement thereto and each other agreement entered into in connection therewith relating to the Acquisitions.
Acquisition Documents
 
"" means, collectively, the CNL Merger and the Advisor Merger.
Acquisitions
"" means Bank of America in its capacity as administrative agent under any of the Loan Documents, or any successor administrative agent.
Administrative Agent
"" means the Administrative Agent's address and, as appropriate, account as set forth on , or such other address or account as the Administrative Agent may from time to time notify to the Borrower and the Lenders.
Administrative Agent's Office
Schedule 10.02
"" means an Administrative Questionnaire in a form supplied by the Administrative Agent.
Administrative Questionnaire
"" has the meaning specified in the second recital to this Agreement.
Advisor
"" has the meaning specified in the second recital to this Agreement.
Advisor Merger
"" has the meaning specified in the second recital to this Agreement.
Advisor Merger Agreement
"" has the meaning specified in the second recital to this Agreement.
Advisor Purchaser
"" means, with respect to any Person, another Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls or is Controlled by or is under common Control with the Person specified.
Affiliate
"" means the Administrative Agent, the Arrangers, the Bookrunners, the Syndication Agent and the Documentation Agents.
Agents
"" means the Commitments of all Lenders.  The Aggregate Commitments on the Closing Date are $705,729,000.
Aggregate Commitments
"" means this Credit Agreement.
Agreement
"" means, for each Lender at any time, a fraction (expressed as a percentage, carried out to the ninth decimal place), the numerator of which is the amount of such Lender's Commitment at such time and the denominator of which is the amount of the Aggregate Commitments at such time.  The initial Applicable Percentages of each Lender are set forth opposite the name of such Lender on or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender becomes a party hereto, as applicable.
Applicable Percentage
Schedule 2.01
"" means, for Loans pursuant to this Agreement, from time to time, the number of basis points per annum set forth in the following table based upon the Debt Rating as set forth below:
Applicable Rate
 
2
"" means, as of any date of determination, the rating as determined by either S&P or Moody's (collectively, the "") of the Borrower's non-credit enhanced, senior unsecured long-term debt; that if a Debt Rating is issued by each of the foregoing rating agencies, then the higher of such Debt Ratings shall apply (with the Debt Rating for Pricing Level 1 being the highest and the Debt Rating for Pricing Level 5 being the lowest), unless there is a split in Debt Ratings of more than one level, in which case the Pricing Level that is one level higher than the Pricing Level of the lower Debt Rating shall apply.
Debt Rating
Debt Ratings
provided
Initially, the Applicable Rate shall be determined based upon the Debt Rating specified in the certificate delivered pursuant to .  Thereafter, each change in the Applicable Rate shall occur on the first Business Day following the effective change in the Debt Rating.
Section 4.01(a)(vii)
"" means any Fund that is administered or managed by (a) a Lender, (b) an Affiliate of a Lender or (c) an entity or an Affiliate of an entity that administers or manages a Lender.
Approved Fund
"" means Banc of America Securities LLC and UBS Securities LLC, each in its capacity as joint lead arranger and joint bookrunner.
Arrangers
"" means two or more Eligible Assignees that are Affiliates of one another or two or more Approved Funds managed by the same investment advisor.
Assignee Group
"" means an assignment and assumption entered into by a Lender and an Eligible Assignee (with the consent of any party whose consent is required by , and accepted by the Administrative Agent, in substantially the form of or any other form approved by the Administrative Agent.
Assignment and Assumption
Section 10.06(b))
Exhibit D
"" means, on any date, (a) in respect of any capital lease of any Person, the capitalized amount thereof that would appear on a balance sheet of such Person prepared as of such date in accordance with GAAP, and (b) in respect of any Synthetic Lease Obligation, the capitalized amount of the remaining lease payments under the relevant lease that would appear on a balance sheet of such Person prepared as of such date in accordance with GAAP if such lease were accounted for as a capital lease.
Attributable Indebtedness
"" means the audited consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, and the related consolidated statements of income or operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for such fiscal year of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, including the notes thereto.
Audited Financial Statements
"" means the credit agreement, dated as of October 5, 2006 (as amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time), among the Borrower, as borrower, the subsidiary guarantors party thereto, the lenders party thereto from time to time, Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent, swingline lender and letter of credit issuer, Banc of America Securities LLC, as joint
Bank Loan Agreement
3
lead arranger and joint bookrunner, UBS Securities LLC, as joint lead arranger, joint bookrunner and syndication agent, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., as joint bookrunner, Barclays Capital, as joint bookrunner, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as co-documentation agent, and Barclays Bank PLC as co-documentation agent, Wachovia Bank, National Association, as Co-Documentation Agent, Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P., as Co-Documentation Agent, Merrill Lynch Bank USA, as Co-Documentation Agent, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as Senior Managing Agent, Citicorp North America, Inc., as Senior Managing Agent, Credit Suisse, Cayman Islands Branch, as Senior Managing Agent, Key Bank National Association, as Senior Managing Agent, SunTrust Bank, as Senior Managing Agent, The Bank of Nova Scotia, as Senior Managing Agent, and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, as Senior Managing Agent.
"" means Bank of America, N.A. and its successors.
Bank of America
"" means for any day a fluctuating rate per annum equal to the higher of (a) the Federal Funds Rate plus  of 1% and (b) the rate of interest in effect for such day as publicly announced from time to time by Bank of America as its "prime rate."  The "prime rate" is a rate set by Bank of America based upon various factors including Bank of America's costs and desired return, general economic conditions and other factors, and is used as a reference point for pricing some loans, which may be priced at, above, or below such announced rate.  Any change in such rate announced by Bank of America shall take effect at the opening of business on the day specified in the public announcement of such change.
Base Rate
"" means a Loan that bears interest based on the Base Rate.
Base Rate Loan
"" means Banc of America Securities LLC, UBS Securities LLC, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Barclays Capital each in its capacity as joint bookrunner.
Bookrunners
"" has the meaning specified in the introductory paragraph hereto.
Borrower
"" has the meaning specified in .
Borrower Material
Section 6.02
"" means a borrowing consisting of simultaneous Loans of the same Type and, in the case of Eurodollar Rate Loans, having the same Interest Period made by each of the Lenders pursuant to .
Borrowing
Section 2.01
"" means a notice of (a) a Borrowing, (b) a conversion of Loans from one Type to the other or (c) a continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans, pursuant to , which, if in writing, shall be substantially in the form of .
Bridge Loan Notice
Section 2.02(a)
Exhibit A
"" means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks are authorized to close under the Laws of, or are in fact closed in, the state where the Administrative Agent's Office is located and, if such day relates to any Eurodollar Rate Loan, means any such day on which dealings in Dollar deposits are conducted by and between banks in the London interbank eurodollar market.
Business Day
"" means any involuntary loss of title, any involuntary loss of, damage to or any destruction of, or any condemnation or other taking (including by any Governmental Authority) of, any property of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries.  "Casualty Event" shall include but not be limited to any taking of all or any part of any real property of any Person or any part thereof, in or by condemnation or other eminent domain proceedings, or by reason of the temporary requisition of the use or occupancy of all or any part of any real property of any person or any part thereof by any Governmental Authority, civil or military, or any settlement in lieu thereof.
Casualty Event
4
"" means the occurrence, after the date of this Agreement, of any of the following:  (a) the adoption or taking effect of any law, rule, regulation or treaty, (b) any change in any law, rule, regulation or treaty or in the administration, interpretation or application thereof by any Governmental Authority or (c) the making or issuance of any request, guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of law) by any Governmental Authority.
Change in Law
"" means an event or series of events by which:
Change of Control
(a)           any "person" or "group" (as such terms are used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, but excluding any employee benefit plan of such person or its subsidiaries, and any person or entity acting in its capacity as trustee, agent or other fiduciary or administrator of any such plan) becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, except that a person or group shall be deemed to have "beneficial ownership" of all securities that such person or group has the right to acquire (such right, an ""), whether such right is exercisable immediately or only after the passage of time), directly or indirectly, of 35% or more of the equity securities of the Borrower entitled to vote for members of the board of directors or equivalent governing body of the Borrower on a fully-diluted basis (and taking into account all such securities that such person or group has the right to acquire pursuant to any option right); or
option right
(b)           during any period of 24 consecutive months, a majority of the members of the board of directors or other equivalent governing body of the Borrower cease to be composed of individuals (i) who were members of that board or equivalent governing body on the first day of such period, (ii) whose election or nomination to that board or equivalent governing body was approved by individuals referred to in clause (i) above constituting at the time of such election or nomination at least a majority of that board or equivalent governing body or (iii) whose election or nomination to that board or other equivalent governing body was approved by individuals referred to in clauses (i) and (ii) above constituting at the time of such election or nomination at least a majority of that board or equivalent governing body (excluding, in the case of both clause (ii) and clause (iii), any individual whose initial nomination for, or assumption of office as, a member of that board or equivalent governing body occurs as a result of an actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents for the election or removal of one or more directors by any person or group other than a solicitation for the election of one or more directors by or on behalf of the board of directors).
"" means the first date all the conditions precedent in are satisfied or waived in accordance with .
Closing Date
Section 4.01
Section 10.01
"" means the occurrence since December 31, 2005 of any event, circumstance, change or effect (any such item, an "") that is, or is reasonably likely to be, materially adverse to the business, financial condition or results of operations of CNL and its subsidiaries taken as a whole; , , that in no event shall any of the following be deemed, either alone or in combination, to constitute, nor shall any of the following be taken into account in determining whether there has been, a Closing Date Material Adverse Effect:  (a) any Effect that results from changes in general economic conditions or changes in securities markets in general, including any changes in interest rates, (b) any Effect that results from general changes in the industries in which CNL and its subsidiaries operate, (c) any Effect related to the public announcement or the pendency or consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Acquisition Agreements, (d) any Effect that results from any action taken at the specific request of the Borrower, (e) any change in the market price or trading volume of the common stock of CNL after May 1, 2006, that the exception in this clause shall not prevent or otherwise affect a determination that any Effect(s) underlying such change has, individually or
Closing Date Material Adverse Effect
Effect
provided
however
provided
5
in the aggregate with any other Effect, resulted in a Material Adverse Effect, (f) any Effect that results from natural disasters, acts of war, sabotage or terrorism, military actions or the escalation thereof, or (g) any Effects resulting from any change in applicable law or regulation in the geographic regions in which CNL or any of its subsidiaries operates; in the case of clauses (a), (b), (f) and (g), for any Effect that has a significantly disproportionate adverse impact on CNL and its subsidiaries compared to other companies of similar size operating in the principal industries in which CNL and its subsidiaries operate.
except
"" has the meaning specified in the first recital to this Agreement.
CNL
"" has the meaning specified in the first recital to this Agreement.
CNL Merger
"" has the meaning specified in the first recital to this Agreement.
CNL Merger Agreement
"" has the meaning specified in the first recital to this Agreement.
CNL Merger Sub
"" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
Code
"" means, as to each Lender, its obligation to make Loans to the Borrower pursuant to in an aggregate principal amount at any one time outstanding not to exceed the amount set forth opposite such Lender's name on or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender becomes a party hereto, as applicable, as such amount may be adjusted from time to time in accordance with this Agreement.
Commitment
Section 2.01
Schedule 2.01
"" means the Borrower and its Subsidiaries and "" means any one of them.
Companies
Company
"" means a certificate substantially in the form of .
Compliance Certificate
Exhibit C
"" means the sum of (a) EBITDA of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis plus (b) without duplication, the Borrower's Pro Rata Share of EBITDA of each Material Joint Venture.
Consolidated EBITDA
"" means, with respect to the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, the sum of (a) Consolidated Interest Expense plus (b) Scheduled Principal Payments plus (c) dividends and distributions in respect of preferred stock (but excluding redemption payments or charges in connection with the redemption of preferred stock) of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries.
Consolidated Fixed Charges
"" means an amount equal to the Intangible Assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.
Consolidated Intangible Assets
"" means the sum of (a) Interest Expense of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis plus (b) without duplication, the Borrower's Pro Rata Share of Interest Expense of each Material Joint Venture.
Consolidated Interest Expense
"" means, as of any date of determination, consolidated shareholders' equity of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, as determined in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Shareholders' Equity
"" means, as of any date of determination, for the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, an amount equal to (a) Consolidated Shareholders' Equity on such date minus (b) Consolidated Intangible Assets on such date.
Consolidated Tangible Net Worth
6
"" means the sum of (a) Total Asset Value of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis plus (b) without duplication, the Borrower's Pro Rata Share of Total Asset Value of each Material Joint Venture.
Consolidated Total Asset Value
"" means the sum of (a) Indebtedness of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis plus (b) without duplication, the Borrower's Pro Rata Share of Indebtedness of each Material Joint Venture.
Consolidated Total Indebtedness
"" means the sum of (a) Unencumbered Asset Value of the Borrower and the Borrower's Pro Rata Share of Unencumbered Asset Value of its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis plus (b) without duplication, the Borrower's Pro Rata Share of Unencumbered Asset Value of each Material Joint Venture; , , that the preceding calculation shall exclude Subsidiaries and Material Joint Ventures that are not Guarantors and which have Indebtedness other than Indebtedness owing to the Borrower or any Guarantor.
Consolidated Unencumbered Asset Value
provided
however
"" means, as to any Person, any provision of any security issued by such Person or of any agreement, instrument or other undertaking to which such Person is a party or by which it or any of its property is bound.
Contractual Obligation
"" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ability to exercise voting power, by contract or otherwise.  "" and "" have meanings correlative thereto.
Control
Controlling
Controlled
"" means a Borrowing.
Credit Extension
"" has the meaning specified in the definition of "Applicable Rate."
Debt Rating
"" means the Bankruptcy Code of the United States, and all other liquidation, conservatorship, bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors, moratorium, rearrangement, receivership, insolvency, reorganization, or similar debtor relief Laws of the United States or other applicable jurisdictions from time to time in effect and affecting the rights of creditors generally.
Debtor Relief Laws
"" means any event or condition that constitutes an Event of Default or that, with the giving of any notice, the passage of time, or both, would be an Event of Default.
Default
"" means an interest rate equal to (i) the Base Rate (ii) the Applicable Rate, if any, applicable to Base Rate Loans (iii) 2% per annum; , , that with respect to a Eurodollar Rate Loan, the Default Rate shall be an interest rate equal to the interest rate (including any Applicable Rate) otherwise applicable to such Loan plus 2% per annum.
Default Rate
plus
plus
provided
however
"" means any Lender that (a) has failed to fund any portion of the Loans required to be funded by it hereunder within one Business Day of the date required to be funded by it hereunder, (b) has otherwise failed to pay over to the Administrative Agent or any other Lender any other amount required to be paid by it hereunder within one Business Day of the date when due, unless the subject of a good faith dispute, or (c) has been deemed insolvent or become the subject of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding.
Defaulting Lender
"" means any real property in which the development and construction with respect thereto are not complete.
Development Property
7
"" or "" means the sale, transfer or assignment (including any sale and leaseback transaction) of any property by any Person, including any sale, assignment, transfer or other disposal, with or without recourse, of any notes or accounts receivable or any rights and claims associated therewith, in any case other than sales or other dispositions of assets in the ordinary course of business.
Disposition
Dispose
"" means each of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Barclays Bank PLC and Wachovia Bank, National Association in their capacity as Co-Documentation Agents.
Documentation Agent
"" and "" mean lawful money of the United States.
Dollar
$
"" means any Subsidiary that is organized under the laws of any political subdivision of the United States.
Domestic Subsidiary
"" means, for any period, for a Person and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, an amount equal to the Net Income of such Person and its Subsidiaries for such period (a) the following to the extent deducted in calculating such Net Income:  (i) Consolidated Interest Expense for such period, (ii) the provision for Federal, state, local and foreign income taxes payable by such Person and its Subsidiaries for such period, (iii) depreciation and amortization expense for such period and (iv) expenses of such Person and its Subsidiaries reducing such Net Income during such period which do not represent a cash expenditure in such period or any prior or future period and (b) all items of such Person and its Subsidiaries increasing Net Income for such period which do not represent a cash receipt in such period or any prior or future period.
EBITDA
plus
minus
"" means any Person that meets the requirements to be an assignee under , and (subject to such consents, if any, as may be required under ).
Eligible Assignee
Section 10.06(b)(iii)
(v)
(vi)
Section 10.06(b)(iii)
"" means any and all Federal, state, local, and foreign statutes, laws, regulations, ordinances, rules, judgments, orders, decrees, permits, concessions, grants, franchises, licenses, agreements or governmental restrictions relating to pollution and the protection of the environment or the release of any materials into the environment, including those related to hazardous substances or wastes, air emissions and discharges to waste or public systems.
Environmental Laws
"" means any liability, contingent or otherwise (including any liability for damages, costs of environmental remediation, fines, penalties or indemnities), of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries directly or indirectly resulting from or based upon (a) violation of any Environmental Law, (b) the generation, use, handling, transportation, storage, treatment or disposal of any Hazardous Materials, (c) exposure to any Hazardous Materials, (d) the release or threatened release of any Hazardous Materials into the environment or (e) any contract, agreement or other consensual arrangement pursuant to which liability is assumed or imposed with respect to any of the foregoing.
Environmental Liability
"" means, with respect to any Person, all of the shares of capital stock of (or other ownership or profit interests in) such Person and all of the warrants or options for the purchase or acquisition from such Person of shares of capital stock of (or other ownership or profit interests in) such Person.
Equity Interests
"" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.
ERISA
"" means any trade or business (whether or not incorporated) under common control with the Borrower within the meaning of Section 414(b) or (c) of the Code (and Sections 414(m) and (o) of the Code for purposes of provisions relating to Section 412 of the Code).
ERISA Affiliate
8
"" means (a) a Reportable Event with respect to a Pension Plan; (b) a withdrawal by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate from a Pension Plan subject to Section 4063 of ERISA during a plan year in which it was a substantial employer (as defined in Section 4001(a)(2) of ERISA) or a cessation of operations that is treated as such a withdrawal under Section 4062(e) of ERISA; (c) a complete or partial withdrawal by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate from a Multiemployer Plan or notification that a Multiemployer Plan is in reorganization; (d) the filing of a notice of intent to terminate, the treatment of a Plan amendment as a termination under Sections 4041 or 4041A of ERISA, or the commencement of proceedings by the PBGC to terminate a Pension Plan or Multiemployer Plan; (e) an event or condition which constitutes grounds under Section 4042 of ERISA for the termination of, or the appointment of a trustee to administer, any Pension Plan or Multiemployer Plan; or (f) the imposition of any liability under Title IV of ERISA, other than for PBGC premiums due but not delinquent under Section 4007 of ERISA, upon the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate.
ERISA Event
"" means, for any Interest Period with respect to a Eurodollar Rate Loan, the rate per annum equal to the British Bankers Association LIBOR Rate (""), as published by Reuters (or other commercially available source providing quotations of BBA LIBOR as designated by the Administrative Agent from time to time) at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period, for Dollar deposits (for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period) with a term equivalent to such Interest Period.  If such rate is not available at such time for any reason, then the "Eurodollar Rate" for such Interest Period shall be the rate per annum determined by the Administrative Agent to be the rate at which deposits in Dollars for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period in same day funds in the approximate amount of the Eurodollar Rate Loan being made, continued or converted by Bank of America and with a term equivalent to such Interest Period would be offered by Bank of America's London Branch to major banks in the London interbank eurodollar market at their request at approximately 4:00 p.m. (London time) two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period.
Eurodollar Rate
BBA LIBOR
"" means a Loan that bears interest at a rate based on the Eurodollar Rate.
Eurodollar Rate Loan
"" has the meaning specified in .
Event of Default
Section 8.01
"" means, with respect to the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any other recipient of any payment to be made by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower hereunder, (a) taxes imposed on or measured by its overall net income (however denominated), and franchise taxes imposed on it (in lieu of net income taxes), by the jurisdiction (or any political subdivision thereof) under the laws of which such recipient is organized or in which its principal office is located or, in the case of any Lender, in which its applicable Lending Office is located, (b) any branch profits taxes imposed by the United States or any similar tax imposed by any other jurisdiction in which the Borrower is located and (c) in the case of a Foreign Lender (other than an assignee pursuant to a request by the Borrower under ), any withholding tax that is imposed on amounts payable to such Foreign Lender at the time such Foreign Lender becomes a party hereto (or designates a new Lending Office) or is attributable to such Foreign Lender's failure or inability (other than as a result of a Change in Law) to comply with , except to the extent that such Foreign Lender (or its assignor, if any) was entitled, at the time of designation of a new Lending Office (or assignment), to receive additional amounts from the Borrower with respect to such withholding tax pursuant to .
Excluded Taxes
Section 10.13
Section 3.01(e)
Section 3.01(a)
"" means that certain Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of August 23, 2005 among CNL Retirement Partners, LP, as borrower, CNL Retirement GP Corp., CNL Retirement LP Corp., CNL Retirement Properties, Inc. and each of the other guarantors, Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent, swing line lender and L/C issuer, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and General Electric Capital Corporation as co-syndication agents, Wachovia Bank, National Association and Key Bank National Association, as co-documentation agents and the other lenders party thereto, and Banc of America Securities LLC, as sole lead arranger and sole book manager.
Existing CNL Credit Agreement
9
"" means that certain Credit Agreement, dated as of October 26, 2004, among the Borrower, Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent, swing line lender, and issuing bank, and the lenders party thereto.
Existing Credit Agreement
"" means, for any day, the rate per annum equal to the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers on such day, as published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on the Business Day next succeeding such day; that (a) if such day is not a Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be such rate on such transactions on the next preceding Business Day as so published on the next succeeding Business Day, and (b) if no such rate is so published on such next succeeding Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be the average rate (rounded upward, if necessary, to a whole multiple of 1/100 of 1%) charged to Bank of America on such day on such transactions as determined by the Administrative Agent.
Federal Funds Rate
provided
"" means the Amended and Restated Bank and Bridge Facilities Fee Letter Agreement, dated July 10, 2006, among the Borrower, Bank of America, N.A., Banc of America Securities LLC, UBS Loan Finance LLC, UBS Securities LLC, JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., Barclays Bank PLC and Barclays Capital.
Fee Letter
"" means, on the last day of any fiscal quarter, the ratio of (a) Consolidated EBITDA for the twelve month period ending on such date to (b) Consolidated Fixed Charges for the twelve month period ending on such date.
Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio
"" means any Lender that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than that in which the Borrower is a resident for tax purposes.  For purposes of this definition, the United States, each State thereof and the District of Columbia shall be deemed to constitute a single jurisdiction.
Foreign Lender
"" shall mean a Subsidiary that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than the United States or any state thereof or the District of Columbia.
Foreign Subsidiary
"" means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States.
FRB
"" means any Person (other than a natural person) that is (or will be) engaged in making, purchasing, holding or otherwise investing in commercial loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its business.
Fund
"" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board or such other principles as may be approved by a significant segment of the accounting profession in the United States, that are applicable to the circumstances as of the date of determination, consistently applied.
GAAP
"" means the government of the United States or any other nation, or of any political subdivision thereof, whether state or local, and any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, central bank or other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government (including any supra-national bodies such as the European Union or the European Central Bank).
Governmental Authority
10
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Granting Lender
Section 10.06(h)
"" means, as to any Person, (a) any obligation, contingent or otherwise, of such Person guaranteeing or having the economic effect of guaranteeing any Indebtedness or other obligation payable or performable by another Person (the "primary obligor") in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, and including any obligation of such Person, direct or indirect, (i) to purchase or pay (or advance or supply funds for the purchase or payment of) such Indebtedness or other obligation, (ii) to purchase or lease property, securities or services for the purpose of assuring the obligee in respect of such Indebtedness or other obligation of the payment or performance of such Indebtedness or other obligation, (iii) to maintain working capital, equity capital or any other financial statement condition or liquidity or level of income or cash flow of the primary obligor so as to enable the primary obligor to pay such Indebtedness or other obligation, or (iv) entered into for the purpose of assuring in any other manner the obligee in respect of such Indebtedness or other obligation of the payment or performance thereof or to protect such obligee against loss in respect thereof (in whole or in part), or (b) any Lien on any assets of such Person securing any Indebtedness or other obligation of any other Person, whether or not such Indebtedness or other obligation is assumed by such Person (or any right, contingent or otherwise, of any holder of such Indebtedness to obtain any such Lien).  The amount of any Guarantee shall be deemed to be an amount equal to the stated or determinable amount of the related primary obligation, or portion thereof, in respect of which such Guarantee is made or, if not stated or determinable, the maximum reasonably anticipated liability in respect thereof as determined by the guaranteeing Person in good faith.  The term "Guarantee" as a verb has a corresponding meaning.
Guarantee
"" means a collective reference to the Subsidiary Guarantors and each other Person that subsequently joins as a Guarantor pursuant to , together with their successors and permitted assigns, and "" means any one of them.
Guarantors
Section 6.13
Guarantor
"" means all explosive or radioactive substances or wastes and all hazardous or toxic substances, wastes or other pollutants, including petroleum or petroleum distillates, asbestos or asbestos-containing materials, polychlorinated biphenyls, radon gas, infectious or medical wastes and all other substances or wastes of any nature regulated pursuant to any Environmental Law.
Hazardous Materials
"" means, as to any Person, without duplication, all of the following, whether or not included as indebtedness or liabilities in accordance with GAAP:
Indebtedness
(a)           all obligations of such Person for borrowed money, whether secured or unsecured, and all obligations of such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes, loan agreements or other similar instruments including, without limitation, recourse and non-recourse mortgage debt;
(b)           all direct or contingent obligations of such Person arising under letters of credit (including standby and commercial), bankers' acceptances, bank guaranties, surety bonds and similar instruments;
(c)           aggregate net obligations of such Person under Swap Contracts;
(d)           all obligations of such Person to pay the deferred purchase price of property or services (other than trade accounts payable in the ordinary course of business);
(e)           indebtedness (excluding prepaid interest thereon) secured by a Lien on property owned or being purchased by such Person (including indebtedness arising under conditional sales or other title retention agreements), whether or not such indebtedness shall have been assumed by such Person or is limited in recourse, to the extent of the value of the property encumbered by such Lien;
11
(f)            capital leases and Synthetic Lease Obligations;
(g)           all obligations of such Person to purchase, redeem, retire, defease or otherwise make any payment in respect of any Equity Interest in such Person at any time prior to the date that is six months after the Maturity Date, valued, in the case of a redeemable preferred interest, at the liquidation preference thereof; and
(h)           all Guarantees of such Person in respect of any of the foregoing.
For all purposes hereof, (i) the amount of any net obligation under any Swap Contract on any date shall be deemed to be the Swap Termination Value thereof as of such date (which shall be a positive number if such amount would be owed by the Borrower and a negative number if such amount would be owed to the Borrower) and the net obligations under Swap Contacts shall not be less than zero, (ii) the amount of any capital lease or Synthetic Lease Obligation as of any date shall be deemed to be the amount of Attributable Indebtedness in respect thereof as of such date and (iii) Consolidated Total Indebtedness shall not include security deposits, accrued liabilities or prepaid rent, each as defined in accordance with GAAP.
"" means Taxes other than Excluded Taxes.
Indemnified Taxes
"" has the meaning specified in .
Indemnitee
Section 10.04(b)
"" means any proceeds received from insurance maintained by or on behalf of the Borrower or any Subsidiary and relating to claims with respect to losses of the Borrower or such Subsidiary, whether such proceeds are payable to the Borrower, such Subsidiary or to the Administrative Agent, net of amounts of the type described in clauses (A), (B) and (C) of clause (a)(ii) of the definition of "Net Cash Proceeds" with respect to the loss giving rise to receipt of such proceeds.
Insurance Proceeds
"" means assets of a Person and its Subsidiaries that are classified as intangible assets under GAAP, but excluding interests in real estate that are classified as intangible assets in accordance with GAAP.
Intangible Assets
"" means, for any period, for a Person and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, the sum of all (a) interest expense for such period determined in accordance with GAAP (but excluding any charges resulting from settlement of options to repurchase remarketable bonds) and (b) interest that is capitalized in such period in accordance with GAAP.
Interest Expense
"" means, (a) as to any Loan other than a Base Rate Loan, the last day of each Interest Period applicable to such Loan and the Maturity Date; , , that if any Interest Period for a Eurodollar Rate Loan exceeds three months, the respective dates that fall every three months after the beginning of such Interest Period shall also be Interest Payment Dates; and (b) as to any Base Rate Loan, the last Business Day of each calendar quarter and the Maturity Date.
Interest Payment Date
provided
however
"" means, as to each Eurodollar Rate Loan, the period commencing on the date such Eurodollar Rate Loan is disbursed or converted to or continued as a Eurodollar Rate Loan and ending on the date one, two, three or six months (or if agreed to by all Lenders, nine or twelve months) thereafter, as selected by the Borrower in its Bridge Loan Notice; that:
Interest Period
provided
12
(i) any Interest Period that would otherwise end on a day that is not a Business Day shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day unless such Business Day falls in another calendar month, in which case such Interest Period shall end on the next preceding Business Day;
(ii) any Interest Period that begins on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the calendar month at the end of such Interest Period) shall end on the last Business Day of the calendar month at the end of such Interest Period; and
(iii) no Interest Period shall extend beyond the Maturity Date.
"" means a material weakness in, or fraud that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in, the Borrower's internal controls over financial reporting, in each case as described in the Securities Laws.
Internal Control Event
"" means, as to any Person, any direct or indirect acquisition or investment by such Person, whether by means of (a) the purchase or other acquisition of capital stock or other securities of another Person, (b) a loan, advance or capital contribution to, Guarantee or assumption of debt of, or purchase or other acquisition of any other debt or equity participation or interest in, another Person, including any partnership or joint venture interest in such other Person and any arrangement pursuant to which the investor Guarantees Indebtedness of such other Person, or (c) the purchase or other acquisition (in one transaction or a series of transactions) of assets of another Person that constitute a business unit.  For purposes of covenant compliance, the amount of any Investment shall be the amount actually invested, without adjustment for subsequent increases or decreases in the value of such Investment.
Investment
"" has the meaning specified in .
IP Rights
Section 5.17
"" means the United States Internal Revenue Service.
IRS
"" means a joinder agreement substantially in the form of executed and delivered by a new Guarantor in accordance with .
Joinder Agreement
Exhibit G
Section 6.13
"" means any Person in which the Borrower, directly or indirectly, has an ownership interest but does not consolidate the assets or income of such Person in preparing its consolidated financial statements.
Joint Venture
"" means, collectively, all international, foreign, Federal, state and local statutes, treaties, rules, guidelines, regulations, ordinances, codes and administrative or judicial precedents or authorities, including the interpretation or administration thereof by any Governmental Authority charged with the enforcement, interpretation or administration thereof, and all applicable administrative orders, directed duties, requests, licenses, authorizations and permits of, and agreements with, any Governmental Authority, in each case whether or not having the force of law.
Laws
"" has the meaning specified in the introductory paragraph hereto.
Lender
"" means, as to any Lender, the office or offices of such Lender described as such in such Lender's Administrative Questionnaire, or such other office or offices as a Lender may from time to time notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
Lending Office
"" means, on the last day of any fiscal quarter, the ratio of (a) Consolidated Total Indebtedness outstanding on such date to (b) Consolidated Total Asset Value as of such date.
Leverage Ratio
13
"" means any mortgage, pledge, hypothecation, assignment, deposit arrangement, encumbrance, lien (statutory or other), charge, or preference, priority or other security interest or preferential arrangement in the nature of a security interest of any kind or nature whatsoever (including any conditional sale or other title retention agreement, any easement, right of way or other encumbrance on title to real property, and any financing lease having substantially the same economic effect as any of the foregoing).
Lien
"" means an extension of credit by a Lender to the Borrower under .
Loan
Article II
"" means this Agreement, each Note and the Fee Letter.
Loan Documents
"" means, collectively, the Borrower and each Guarantor.  For purposes of the representations and warranties made pursuant to on the Closing Date, references to "Loan Party" shall exclude any Person that is or is required to become a Loan Party immediately following the CNL Merger and the Advisor Merger.
Loan Parties
Article V
"" means (a) a material adverse change in, or a material adverse effect upon, the operations, business, properties, liabilities (actual or contingent) or condition (financial or otherwise) of the Borrower or the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole; (b) a material impairment of the ability of the Borrowers to perform its obligations under any Loan Document to which it is a party; or (c) a material adverse effect upon the legality, validity, binding effect or enforceability against the Borrower of any Loan Document to which it is a party.
Material Adverse Effect
"" means a Joint Venture in which the Borrower has made a net equity investment of $15,000,000 or greater.  For purposes of this definition, the Borrower's aggregate Investment in a Joint Venture will be valued at (a) the aggregate amount of cash and cash equivalents and the book value of other property contributed by the Borrower to such Joint Venture (b) the aggregate amount of distributions received by the Borrower from such Joint Venture that would be classified as a return of capital (as opposed to a return on investment).
Material Joint Venture
minus
"" means October 3, 2007.
Maturity Date
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and any successor thereto.
Moody's
"" means any Lien that encumbers a real property owned by a Person other than Permitted Liens.
Mortgage Lien
"" means any employee benefit plan of the type described in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA, to which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate makes or is obligated to make contributions, or during the preceding five plan years, has made or been obligated to make contributions.
Multiemployer Plan
"" means:
Net Cash Proceeds
(a)           with respect to any Disposition or Casualty Event, the excess, if any, of (i) the sum of cash and cash equivalents received in connection with such Disposition or Casualty Event (including any cash received by way of deferred payment pursuant to, or by monetization of or other cash realization upon, a note receivable or other non-cash consideration, but only as and when so received) over (ii) the sum of (A) the principal, interest, premiums, penalties and other amounts due under any Indebtedness that is secured by a Lien on such asset and that is required to be repaid in connection with such event (other than Indebtedness under the Loan Documents), (B) the out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Borrower or any Subsidiary in connection with
14
such Disposition or Casualty Event, (C) taxes reasonably estimated to be actually payable with respect to the taxable year in which such Disposition or Casualty Event occurred as a result of any gain recognized in connection therewith and (D) amounts reasonably expected to be payable prior to the Maturity Date pursuant to customary escrow arrangements, purchase price adjustments or indemnification agreements in connection with such Disposition (as estimated in good faith by a Responsible Officer of the applicable Loan Party and set forth in a certificate delivered to the Administrative Agent prior to the consummation of such Disposition); and
(b)           with respect to any debt incurrence or Public Equity Issuance, the excess of (i) the sum of the cash and cash equivalents received in connection with such event over (ii) the underwriting discounts and commissions, and other out-of-pocket fees and expenses, incurred by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in connection with such sale.
"" means, for any period, for a Person and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, the net income of such Person and its Subsidiaries (excluding extraordinary gains and extraordinary losses and other non-recurring items, including, without limitation, charges resulting from settlement of options to repurchase remarketable bonds and other similar charges) for that period as determined in accordance with GAAP.
Net Income
"" means a promissory note made by the Borrower in favor of a Lender evidencing Loans made by such Lender, substantially in the form of .
Note
Exhibit B
"" means all advances to, and debts, liabilities, obligations, covenants and duties of any Loan Party arising under any Loan Document or otherwise with respect to any Loan, whether direct or indirect (including those acquired by assumption), absolute or contingent, due or to become due, now existing or hereafter arising and including interest and fees that accrue after the commencement by or against any Loan Party or any Affiliate thereof of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Laws naming such Person as the debtor in such proceeding, regardless of whether such interest and fees are allowed claims in such proceeding.
Obligations
"" means, (a) with respect to any corporation, the certificate or articles of incorporation and the bylaws (or equivalent or comparable constitutive documents with respect to any non-U.S. jurisdiction); (b) with respect to any limited liability company, the certificate or articles of formation or organization and operating agreement; and (c) with respect to any partnership, joint venture, trust or other form of business entity, the partnership, joint venture or other applicable agreement of formation or organization and any agreement, instrument, filing or notice with respect thereto filed in connection with its formation or organization with the applicable Governmental Authority in the jurisdiction of its formation or organization and, if applicable, any certificate or articles of formation or organization of such entity.
Organization Documents
"" means all present or future stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies arising from any payment made hereunder or under any other Loan Document or from the execution, delivery or enforcement of, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
Other Taxes
"" means with respect to Loans on any date, the aggregate outstanding principal amount thereof after giving effect to any borrowings and prepayments or repayments occurring on such date.
Outstanding Amount
"" has the meaning specified in .
Participant
Section 10.06(d)
15
"" has the meaning specified in .
Patriot Act
Section 10.17
"" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation.
PBGC
"" means any "employee pension benefit plan" (as such term is defined in Section 3(2) of ERISA), other than a Multiemployer Plan, that is subject to Title IV of ERISA and is sponsored or maintained by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate or to which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate contributes or has an obligation to contribute, or in the case of a multiple employer or other plan described in Section 4064(a) of ERISA, has made contributions at any time during the immediately preceding five plan years.
Pension Plan
"" means Liens permitted under , , , and .
Permitted Liens
Section 7.01(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
(g)
"" means any natural person, corporation, limited liability company, trust, joint venture, association, company, partnership, Governmental Authority or other entity.
Person
"" means any "employee benefit plan" (as such term is defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA) established by the Borrower or, with respect to any such plan that is subject to Section 412 of the Code or Title IV of ERISA, any ERISA Affiliate.
Plan
"" has the meaning specified in .
Platform
Section 6.02
"" means (a) with respect to the EBITDA, Net Income, Interest Expense, Total Asset Value and Unencumbered Asset Value of each Joint Venture, the Borrower's direct or indirect, percentage ownership interest in such Joint Venture and (b) with respect to the Indebtedness of each Joint Venture (i) if the Indebtedness is recourse to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries the amount of such Indebtedness that is recourse to the Borrower or such Subsidiary and (ii) if the Indebtedness is not recourse to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, the Borrower's percentage ownership interest in such Joint Venture.
Pro Rata Share
"" means the issuance, sale or other disposition by the Borrower or one if its Subsidiaries of its Equity Interests, including any Rule 144A offering or any rights, warrants or options to purchase shares of its Equity Interests; that the term Public Equity Issuance shall not include (a) the issuance or sale of Equity Interests by a Subsidiary of the Borrower to the Borrower or another Subsidiary of the Borrower or (b) any rights, options or Equity Interests issued pursuant to employee or director incentive, stock option or stock repurchase plans in the ordinary course.
Public Equity Issuance
provided
"" has the meaning specified in .
Public Lender
Section 6.02
"" means the repayment of existing indebtedness of the Borrower and CNL of up to $1,100,000,000 in connection with the Acquisitions.
Refinancing
"" has the meaning specified in .
Register
Section 10.06(c)
"" has the meaning specified in the Securities Laws and shall be independent of the Borrower as prescribed by the Securities Laws.
Registered Public Accounting Firm
"" means a real estate investment trust as defined in Sections 856-860 of the Code.
REIT
"" means, with respect to any Person, such Person's Affiliates and the partners, directors, officers, employees, agents and advisors of such Person and of such Person's Affiliates.
Related Parties
16
"" means any of the events set forth in Section 4043(c) of ERISA, other than events for which the 30 day notice period has been waived.
Reportable Event
"" means with respect to a Borrowing, conversion or continuation of Loans, a Bridge Loan Notice.
Request for Credit Extension
"" means, as of any date of determination, Lenders having more than 50% of (i) the Aggregate Commitments or (ii) the Total Outstandings, as the case may be; that the Commitment of, and the portion of the Total Outstandings held or deemed held by, any Defaulting Lender shall be excluded for purposes of making a determination of Requisite Lenders.
Requisite Lenders
provided
"" means the chief executive officer, president, chief financial officer, each executive vice president and senior vice president, and the treasurer of a Loan Party.  Any document delivered hereunder that is signed by a Responsible Officer of a Loan Party shall be conclusively presumed to have been authorized by all necessary corporate, partnership and/or other action on the part of the Loan Party and such Responsible Officer shall be conclusively presumed to have acted on behalf of the Loan Party.
Responsible Officer
"" means any payment (whether in cash, securities or other property), including any sinking fund or similar deposit, on account of the purchase, redemption, retirement, acquisition, cancellation or termination of any such capital stock or other Equity Interest, or on account of any return of capital to the Borrower's stockholders, partners or members (or the equivalent Person thereof).
Restricted Payment
"" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. and any successor thereto.
S&P
"" means (a) all scheduled principal payments by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries with respect to its Consolidated Total Indebtedness (other than payments due at final maturity of any tranche of Indebtedness) and (b) without duplication, the Borrower's Pro Rata Share of all scheduled principal payments with respect to the Indebtedness (other than payments due at final maturity of any tranche of Indebtedness) of each Material Joint Venture, in each case without giving effect to any reduction in such scheduled principal payments as a result of any voluntary or mandatory prepayment with respect thereto made in the same period in which such principal payment was scheduled to be made.
Scheduled Principal Payment
"" means the Securities and Exchange Commission, or any Governmental Authority succeeding to any of its principal functions.
SEC
"" means that portion of Consolidated Total Indebtedness that is subject to a Lien (other than Permitted Liens).
Secured Debt
"" means, on the last day of any fiscal quarter, the ratio of (a) Secured Debt outstanding on such date to (b) Consolidated Total Asset Value as of such date.
Secured Debt Ratio
"" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the ""), the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the applicable accounting and auditing principles, rules, standards and practices promulgated, approved or incorporated by the SEC or the PCAOB.
Securities Laws
Securities Act
Securities Exchange Act
"" has the meaning set forth in .
SPC
Section 10.06(h)
17
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Specified Representations
Section 4.01(a)(viii)
"" of a Person means a corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company or other business entity the accounts of which are consolidated with the accounts of the Borrower in the Borrower's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP.  Unless otherwise specified, all references herein to a "" or to "" shall refer to a Subsidiary or Subsidiaries of the Borrower.
Subsidiary
Subsidiary
Subsidiaries
"" means (a) each Subsidiary of the Borrower identified on the signature pages hereto, and (b) each other Subsidiary of the Borrower that subsequently joins as a Guarantor pursuant to , together with their successors and permitted assigns, and "" means any one of them.
Subsidiary Guarantors
Section 6.13
Subsidiary Guarantor
"" means (a) any and all rate swap transactions, basis swaps, credit derivative transactions, forward rate transactions, commodity swaps, commodity options, forward commodity contracts, equity or equity index swaps or options, bond or bond price or bond index swaps or options or forward bond or forward bond price or forward bond index transactions, interest rate options, forward foreign exchange transactions, cap transactions, floor transactions, collar transactions, currency swap transactions, cross-currency rate swap transactions, currency options, spot contracts, or any other similar transactions or any combination of any of the foregoing, whether or not any such transaction is governed by or subject to any master agreement, and (b) any and all transactions of any kind, and the related confirmations, which are subject to the terms and conditions of, or governed by, any form of master agreement published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc., any International Foreign Exchange Master Agreement, or any other master agreement (any such master agreement, together with any related schedules, a ""), including any such obligations or liabilities under any Master Agreement.
Swap Contract
Master Agreement
"" means, in respect of any one or more Swap Contracts, after taking into account the effect of any legally enforceable netting agreement relating to such Swap Contracts, (a) for any date on or after the date such Swap Contracts have been closed out and termination value(s) determined in accordance therewith, such termination value(s), and (b) for any date prior to the date referenced in clause (a), the amount(s) determined as the mark-to-market value(s) for such Swap Contracts, as determined based upon one or more mid-market or other readily available quotations provided by any recognized dealer in such Swap Contracts (which may include a Lender or any Affiliate of a Lender).
Swap Termination Value
"" means UBS Securities LLC in its capacity as Syndication Agent.
Syndication Agent
"" means the monetary obligation of a Person under a so-called synthetic, off-balance sheet or tax retention lease.
Synthetic Lease Obligation
"" means all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties, deductions, withholdings, assessments, fees or other charges imposed by any Governmental Authority, including any interest, additions to tax or penalties applicable thereto.
Taxes
"" means $50,000,000.
Threshold Amount
"" means an amount equal to (a) all assets of a Person and its Subsidiaries as determined in accordance with GAAP plus (b) all accumulated depreciation associated with such assets minus (c) Intangible Assets.
Total Asset Value
18
"" means the aggregate Outstanding Amount of all Loans.
Total Outstandings
"" means, collectively, (i) the Acquisitions, (ii) the Refinancing, (iii) the entering into of this Agreement and the funding of the Loans, (iv) the payment of related fees, commissions and expenses, (v) the entry into and borrowing of not more than $2,700,000,000 under the Bank Loan Agreement, and (vi) all transactions related thereto.
Transactions
"" means any treasury, depository or cash management arrangements, services or products, including, without limitation, overdraft services and automated clearinghouse transfers of funds.
Treasury Management Agreement
"" means, with respect to a Loan, its character as a Base Rate Loan or a Eurodollar Rate Loan.
Type
"" means the sum of (a) the aggregate net book value, as determined in accordance with GAAP, of all real property of a Person that is not subject to a Mortgage Lien plus (b) all accumulated depreciation with respect to such real properties plus (c) unrestricted cash and cash equivalents of such Person.
Unencumbered Asset Value
"" means the excess of a Pension Plan's benefit liabilities under Section 4001(a)(16) of ERISA, over the current value of that Pension Plan's assets, determined in accordance with the assumptions used for funding the Pension Plan pursuant to Section 412 of the Code for the applicable plan year.
Unfunded Pension Liability
"" and "." mean the United States of America.
United States
U.S
"" means that portion of Consolidated Total Indebtedness that is not Secured Debt.
Unsecured Debt
"" means, on the last day of any fiscal quarter, the ratio of (a) Unsecured Debt outstanding on such date to (b) Consolidated Unencumbered Asset Value as of such date.
Unsecured Leverage Ratio
1.02        .
Other Interpretive Provisions
With reference to this Agreement and each other Loan Document, unless otherwise specified herein or in such other Loan Document:
(a)           The definitions of terms herein shall apply equally to the singular and plural forms of the terms defined.  Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms.  The words "," "" and "" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation."  The word "" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect as the word "."  Unless the context requires otherwise, (i) any definition of or reference to any agreement, instrument or other document (including any Organization Document) shall be construed as referring to such agreement, instrument or other document as from time to time amended, supplemented or otherwise modified (subject to any restrictions on such amendments, supplements or modifications set forth herein or in any other Loan Document), (ii) any reference herein to any Person shall be construed to include such Person's successors and assigns, (iii) the words "," "" and "," and words of similar import when used in any Loan Document, shall be construed to refer to such Loan Document in its entirety and not to any particular provision thereof, (iv) all references in a Loan Document to Articles, Sections, Exhibits
include
includes
including
will
shall
herein
hereof
hereunder
19
and Schedules shall be construed to refer to Articles and Sections of, and Exhibits and Schedules to, the Loan Document in which such references appear, (v) any reference to any law shall include all statutory and regulatory provisions consolidating, amending replacing or interpreting such law and any reference to any law or regulation shall, unless otherwise specified, refer to such law or regulation as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time, and (vi) the words "" and "" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect and to refer to any and all tangible and intangible assets and properties, including cash, securities, accounts and contract rights.
asset
property
(b)           In the computation of periods of time from a specified date to a later specified date, the word "" means ";" the words "" and "" each mean ";" and the word "" means "."
from
from and including
to
until
to but excluding
through
to and including
(c)           Section headings herein and in the other Loan Documents are included for convenience of reference only and shall not affect the interpretation of this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
1.03        .
Accounting Terms
(a)           .  All accounting terms not specifically or completely defined herein shall be construed in conformity with, and all financial data (including financial ratios and other financial calculations) required to be submitted pursuant to this Agreement shall be prepared in conformity with, GAAP applied on a consistent basis, as in effect from time to time, applied in a manner consistent with that used in preparing the Audited Financial Statements, as otherwise specifically prescribed herein.
Generally
except
(b)           .  If at any time any change in GAAP would affect the computation of any financial ratio or requirement set forth in any Loan Document, and either the Borrower or the Requisite Lenders shall so request, the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the Borrower shall negotiate in good faith to amend such ratio or requirement to preserve the original intent thereof in light of such change in GAAP (subject to the approval of the Requisite Lenders); , until so amended, (i) such ratio or requirement shall continue to be computed in accordance with GAAP prior to such change therein and (ii) the Borrower shall provide to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders financial statements and other documents required under this Agreement or as reasonably requested hereunder setting forth a reconciliation between calculations of such ratio or requirement made before and after giving effect to such change in GAAP.
Changes in GAAP
provided that
1.04        .
Rounding
Any financial ratios required to be maintained by the Borrower pursuant to this Agreement shall be calculated by dividing the appropriate component by the other component, carrying the result to one place more than the number of places by which such ratio is expressed herein and rounding the result up or down to the nearest number (with a rounding-up if there is no nearest number).
1.05        .
Times of Day
Unless otherwise specified, all references herein to times of day shall be references to Eastern time (daylight or standard, as applicable).
20
2.01        .
Loans
Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Lender severally agrees to make a loan (each such loan, a "") to the Borrower on the Closing Date in an amount not to exceed the amount of such Lender's Commitment. The Commitments are not revolving in nature, and amounts repaid in respect of the Loans may not be reborrowed.  The Loans may be Base Rate Loans or Eurodollar Rate Loans, as further provided herein.
Loan
2.02        Borrowings, Conversions and Continuations of Loans.
(a)           Each Borrowing, each conversion of Loans from one Type to the other, and each continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be made upon the Borrower's irrevocable notice to the Administrative Agent, which may be given by telephone.  Each such notice must be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 12:00 Noon (i) three Business Days prior to the requested date of any Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans or of any conversion of Eurodollar Rate Loans to Base Rate Loans, and (ii) on the requested date of any Borrowing of Base Rate Loans.  Each telephonic notice by the Borrower pursuant to this must be confirmed promptly by delivery to the Administrative Agent of a written Bridge Loan Notice, appropriately completed and signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower.  Each Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $1,000,000 or a whole multiple of $100,000 in excess thereof.  Each Borrowing of or conversion to Base Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $1,000,000 or a whole multiple of $100,000 in excess thereof.
Section 2.02(a)
Each Bridge Loan Notice (whether telephonic or written) shall specify (i) whether the Borrower is requesting a Borrowing, a conversion of Loans from one Type to the other, or a continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans, (ii) the requested date of the Borrowing, conversion or continuation, as the case may be (which shall be a Business Day), (iii) the principal amount of Loans to be borrowed, converted or continued, (iv) the Type of Loans to be borrowed or to which existing Loans are to be converted, and (v) if applicable, the duration of the Interest Period with respect thereto.  If the Borrower fails to specify a Type of Loan in a Bridge Loan Notice or if the Borrower fails to give a timely notice requesting a conversion or continuation, then the applicable Loans shall be made as, or converted to, Base Rate Loans.  Any such automatic conversion to Base Rate Loans shall be effective as of the last day of the Interest Period then in effect with respect to the applicable Eurodollar Rate Loans.  If the Borrower requests a Borrowing of, conversion to, or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans in any such Bridge Loan Notice, but fails to specify an Interest Period, it will be deemed to have specified an Interest Period of one month.
(b)           Following receipt of a Bridge Loan Notice, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of the amount of its Applicable Percentage of the applicable Loans, and if no timely notice of a conversion or continuation is provided by the Borrower, the Administrative Agent shall notify each Lender of the details of any automatic conversion to Base Rate Loans described in the preceding subsection.  Each Lender shall make the amount of its Loan available to the Administrative Agent in immediately available funds at the Administrative Agent's Office not later than 2:00 p.m. on the Business Day specified in the applicable Bridge Loan Notice.  Upon satisfaction of the applicable conditions set forth in , the Administrative Agent shall make all funds so received available to the Borrower in like funds as received by the Administrative Agent either by (i) crediting the account of the Borrower on the books of Bank of America with the amount of such funds or (ii) wire transfer of such funds, in each case in accordance with instructions provided to (and reasonably acceptable to) the Administrative Agent by the Borrower.
Section 4.01
21
(c)           Except as otherwise provided herein, a Eurodollar Rate Loan may be continued or converted only on the last day of an Interest Period for such Eurodollar Rate Loan.  During the existence of a Default, no Loans may be requested as, converted to or continued as Eurodollar Rate Loans without the consent of the Requisite Lenders.
(d)           The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Lenders of the interest rate applicable to any Interest Period for Eurodollar Rate Loans upon determination of such interest rate.  At any time that Base Rate Loans are outstanding, the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders of any change in Bank of America's prime rate used in determining the Base Rate promptly following the public announcement of such change.
(e)           After giving effect to all Borrowings, all conversions of Loans from one Type to the other, and all continuations of Loans as the same Type, there shall not be more than ten Interest Periods in effect with respect to all Loans hereunder.
2.03        [Intentionally Omitted].
2.04        [Intentionally Omitted].
2.05        [Intentionally Omitted].
2.06        .
Prepayments
(a)           The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrative Agent, at any time or from time to time, voluntarily prepay Loans in whole or in part without premium or penalty; that (i) such notice must be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 11:00 a.m. (A) three Business Days prior to any date of prepayment of Eurodollar Rate Loans and (B) on the date of prepayment of Base Rate Loans; (ii) any prepayment of Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $1,000,000 or a whole multiple of $100,000 in excess thereof; and (iii) any prepayment of Base Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $1,000,000 or a whole multiple of $100,000 in excess thereof or, in each case, if less, the entire principal amount thereof then outstanding.  Each such notice shall specify the date and amount of such prepayment and the Type(s) of Loans to be prepaid.  The Administrative Agent will promptly notify each Lender of its receipt of each such notice, and of the amount of such Lender's Applicable Percentage of such prepayment.  If such notice is given by the Borrower, the Borrower shall make such prepayment and the payment amount specified in such notice shall be due and payable on the date specified therein.  Any prepayment of a Eurodollar Rate Loan shall be accompanied by all accrued interest on the amount prepaid, together with any additional amounts required pursuant to .  Each prepayment shall be made ratably among the Lenders in accordance with the Applicable Percentages.
provided
Section 3.05
(b)           [Intentionally Omitted].
(c)           [Intentionally Omitted].
(d)           [Intentionally Omitted].
(e)           Within three Business Days after any Net Cash Proceeds are received by the Borrower or any Subsidiary in respect of (i) any Disposition; or (ii) any Casualty Event, the Borrower shall prepay the Loans plus accrued and unpaid interest, fees and all other sums with respect to the principal amount so prepaid, in an aggregate amount equal to 100% of such Net Cash Proceeds less any portion of such proceeds that must be distributed to maintain the Borrower's status as a REIT.
22
(other than an issuance of debt (i) in an aggregate amount up to $1,000,000 per annum for issuances of debt not covered by the following clauses (ii) and (iii); (ii) to refinance existing purchase money financing, up to the amount then outstanding under such existing financing, or (iii) to provide mortgage financing for the acquisition of new properties up to an aggregate amount in any 12-month period of $50,000,000), the Borrower shall prepay Loans plus accrued and unpaid interest, fees and all other sums with respect to the principal amount so prepaid, in an aggregate amount equal to 100% of such Net Cash Proceeds.
(f)            Within three Business Days after any Net Cash Proceeds are received by the Borrower or any Subsidiary in respect of any issuance of debt after the Closing Date
(g)           Within three Business Days after any Net Cash Proceeds are received by the Borrower or any Subsidiary in respect of any Public Equity Issuance or equity contribution after the Closing Date, the Borrower shall prepay Loans plus accrued and unpaid interest, fees and all other sums with respect to the principal amount so prepaid, in an aggregate amount equal to 100% of such Net Cash Proceeds.
2.07        .
Termination or Reduction of Commitments
Unless previously terminated, the Commitments will terminate on the earliest to occur of (A) the Closing Date, immediately after the closing hereunder; (B) October 31, 2006, if the Closing Date has not occurred on or before such date; and (C) the termination of the CNL Merger Agreement.
2.08        .
Repayment
(a)           The Borrower shall repay to the Lenders on the Maturity Date, unless accelerated sooner pursuant to , the entire outstanding principal balance of all Loans together with accrued but unpaid interest, fees and all other sums with respect thereto.
Section 8.02
(b)           [Intentionally Omitted].
(c)           [Intentionally Omitted].
(d)           [Intentionally Omitted].
2.09        .
Interest
(a)           .  Subject to the provisions of subsection (b) below, (i) each Eurodollar Rate Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof for each Interest Period at a rate per annum equal to the Eurodollar Rate for such Interest Period plus the Applicable Rate and (ii) each Base Rate Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof from the applicable borrowing date at a rate per annum equal to the Base Rate the Applicable Rate.
Applicable Interest
plus
(b)           .
Default Interest
(i)      If any amount of principal of any Loan is not paid when due (without regard to any applicable grace periods), whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, such amount shall thereafter bear interest at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws.
23
(ii)     If any amount (other than principal of any Loan) payable by the Borrower under any Loan Document is not paid when due (without regard to any applicable grace periods), whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, then upon the request of the Requisite Lenders, such amount shall thereafter bear interest at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws.
(iii)    Upon the request of the Requisite Lenders, while any Event of Default exists, the Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of all outstanding Obligations hereunder at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws.
(iv)    Accrued and unpaid interest on past due amounts (including interest on past due interest) shall be due and payable upon demand.
(c)           .  Interest on each Loan shall be due and payable in arrears on each Interest Payment Date applicable thereto and at such other times as may be specified herein.  Interest hereunder shall be due and payable in accordance with the terms hereof before and after judgment, and before and after the commencement of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law.
Interest Payment Date
2.10        .
Fees
(a)           [Intentionally Omitted].
(b)           .
Other Fees
(i)      The Borrower shall pay to the Arrangers and the Administrative Agent for their own respective accounts fees in the amounts and at the times specified in the Fee Letter.  Such fees shall be fully earned when paid and shall not be refundable for any reason whatsoever.
(ii)     The Borrower shall pay to the Lenders such fees as shall have been separately agreed upon in writing in the amounts and at the times so specified.  Such fees shall be fully earned when paid and shall not be refundable for any reason whatsoever.
2.11        .
Computation of Interest and Fees
All computations of interest for Base Rate Loans when the Base Rate is determined by Bank of America's "prime rate" shall be made on the basis of a year of 365 or 366 days, as the case may be, and actual days elapsed.  All other computations of fees and interest shall be made on the basis of a 360-day year and actual days elapsed (which results in more fees or interest, as applicable, being paid than if computed on the basis of a 365-day year).  Interest shall accrue on each Loan for the day on which the Loan is made, and shall not accrue on a Loan, or any portion thereof, for the day on which the Loan or such portion is paid, that any Loan that is repaid on the same day on which it is made shall, subject to , bear interest for one day.  Each determination by the Administrative Agent of an interest rate or fee hereunder shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
provided
Section 2.13(a)
2.12        .
Evidence of Debt
(a)           The Credit Extensions made by each Lender shall be evidenced by one or more accounts or records maintained by such Lender and by the Administrative Agent in the ordinary course of business.  The accounts or records maintained by the Administrative Agent and each Lender shall be conclusive absent manifest error of the amount of the Credit Extensions made by the Lenders to the Borrower and the
24
interest and payments thereon.  Any failure to so record or any error in doing so shall not, however, limit or otherwise affect the obligation of the Borrower hereunder to pay any amount owing with respect to the Obligations.  In the event of any conflict between the accounts and records maintained by any Lender and the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent in respect of such matters, the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent shall control in the absence of manifest error.  Upon the request of any Lender made through the Administrative Agent, the Borrower shall execute and deliver to such Lender (through the Administrative Agent) a Note, which shall evidence such Lender's Loans in addition to such accounts or records.  Each Lender may attach schedules to its Note and endorse thereon the date, Type (if applicable), amount and maturity of its Loans and payments with respect thereto.
(b)           [Intentionally Omitted].
2.13        .
Payments Generally; Administrative Agent's Clawback
(a)           .  All payments to be made by the Borrower shall be made without condition or deduction for any counterclaim, defense, recoupment or setoff.  Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all payments by the Borrower hereunder shall be made to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the respective Lenders to which such payment is owed, at the Administrative Agent's Office in Dollars and in immediately available funds not later than 2:00 p.m. on the date specified herein.  The Administrative Agent will promptly distribute to each Lender its Applicable Percentage (or other applicable share as provided herein) of such payment in like funds as received by wire transfer to such Lender's Lending Office.  All payments received by the Administrative Agent after 2:00 p.m. shall be deemed received on the next succeeding Business Day and any applicable interest or fee shall continue to accrue.  If any payment to be made by the Borrower shall come due on a day other than a Business Day, payment shall be made on the next following Business Day, and such extension of time shall be reflected in computing interest or fees, as the case may be.
General
(b)           (i)  .  Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the proposed date of any Borrowing of Eurodollar Rate Loans (or, in the case of any Borrowing of Base Rate Loans, prior to 12:00 noon on the date of such Borrowing) that such Lender will not make available to the Administrative Agent such Lender's share of such Borrowing, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender has made such share available on such date in accordance with (or, in the case of a Borrowing of Base Rate Loans, that such Lender has made such share available in accordance with and at the time required by ) and may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Borrower a corresponding amount.  In such event, if a Lender has not in fact made its share of the applicable Borrowing available to the Administrative Agent, then the applicable Lender and the Borrower severally agree to pay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount in immediately available funds with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is made available to the Borrower to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at (A) in the case of a payment to be made by such Lender, the greater of the Federal Funds Rate and a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation, plus any administrative, processing or similar fees customarily charged by the Administrative Agent in connection with the foregoing, and (B) in the case of a payment to be made by the Borrower, the interest rate applicable to Base Rate Loans.  If the Borrower and such Lender shall pay such interest to the Administrative Agent for the same or an overlapping period, the Administrative Agent shall promptly remit to the Borrower the amount of such interest paid by the Borrower for such period.  If such Lender pays its share of the applicable Borrowing to the Administrative Agent, then the amount so paid shall constitute such Lender's Loan included in such Borrowing.  Any payment by the Borrower shall be without prejudice to any claim the Borrower may have against a Lender that shall have failed to make such payment to the Administrative Agent.
Funding by Lenders; Presumption by Administrative Agent
Section 2.02
Section 2.02
25
(ii)     .  Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from the Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders hereunder that the Borrower will not make such payment, the Administrative Agent may assume that the Borrower has made such payment on such date in accordance herewith and may, in reliance upon such assumption, distribute to the Lenders the amount due.  In such event, if the Borrower has not in fact made such payment, then each of the Lenders severally agrees to repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand the amount so distributed to such Lender in immediately available funds with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is distributed to it to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at the greater of the Federal Funds Rate and a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation.
Payments by the Borrower; Presumptions by Administrative Agent
A notice of the Administrative Agent to any Lender or the Borrower with respect to any amount owing under this subsection (b) shall be conclusive, absent manifest error.
(c)           .  If any Lender makes available to the Administrative Agent funds for any Loan to be made by such Lender as provided in the foregoing provisions of this , and such funds are not made available to the Borrower by the Administrative Agent because the conditions to the applicable Credit Extension set forth in are not satisfied or waived in accordance with the terms hereof, the Administrative Agent shall return such funds (in like funds as received from such Lender) to such Lender, without interest.
Failure to Satisfy Conditions Precedent
Article II
Article IV
(d)           .  The obligations of the Lenders hereunder to make Loans and to make payments pursuant to are several and not joint.  The failure of any Lender to make any Loan, to fund any such participation or to make any payment under on any date required hereunder shall not relieve any other Lender of its corresponding obligation to do so on such date, and no Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to so make its Loan, to purchase its participation or to make its payment under .
Obligations of Lenders Several
Section 10.04(c)
Section 10.04(c)
Section 10.04(c)
(e)           .  Nothing herein shall be deemed to obligate any Lender to obtain the funds for any Loan in any particular place or manner or to constitute a representation by any Lender that it has obtained or will obtain the funds for any Loan in any particular place or manner.
Funding Source
2.14        .
Sharing of Payments by Lenders
If any Lender shall, by exercising any right of setoff or counterclaim or otherwise, obtain payment in respect of any principal of or interest on any of the Loans made by it resulting in such Lender's receiving payment of a proportion of the aggregate amount of such Loans or participations and accrued interest thereon greater than its share thereof as provided herein, then the Lender receiving such greater proportion shall (a) notify the Administrative Agent of such fact, and (b) purchase (for cash at face value) participations in the Loans of the other Lenders, or make such other adjustments as shall be equitable, so that the benefit of all such payments shall be shared by the Lenders ratably in accordance with the aggregate amount of principal of and accrued interest on their respective Loans and other amounts owing them, that:
pro
rata
provided
(i)      if any such participations or subparticipations are purchased and all or any portion of the payment giving rise thereto is recovered, such participations or subparticipations shall be rescinded and the purchase price restored to the extent of such recovery, without interest; and
26
(ii)     the provisions of this Section shall not be construed to apply to (x) any payment made by the Borrower pursuant to and in accordance with the express terms of this Agreement or (y) any payment obtained by a Lender as consideration for the assignment of or sale of a participation in any of its Loans to any assignee or participant, other than to the Borrower or any Subsidiary thereof (as to which the provisions of this Section shall apply).
Each Loan Party consents to the foregoing and agrees, to the extent it may effectively do so under applicable law, that any Lender acquiring a participation pursuant to the foregoing arrangements may exercise against such Loan Party rights of setoff and counterclaim with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were a direct creditor of such Loan Party in the amount of such participation.
2.15        [Intentionally Omitted].
2.16        [Intentionally Omitted].
3.01        .
Taxes
(a)           .  Any and all payments by or on account of any obligation of the Loan Parties hereunder or under any other Loan Document shall be made free and clear of and without reduction or withholding for any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes, that if the Loan Parties shall be required by applicable law to deduct any Indemnified Taxes (including any Other Taxes) from such payments, then (i) the sum payable shall be increased as necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section) the Administrative Agent or Lender, as the case may be, receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) the applicable Loan Party shall make such deductions and (iii) the applicable Loan Party shall timely pay the full amount deducted to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
Payments Free of Taxes
provided
(b)           .  Without limiting the provisions of subsection (a) above, the Borrower shall timely pay any Other Taxes to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
Payment of Other Taxes by the Borrower
(c)           .  The Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent and each Lender, within 10 days after demand therefor, for the full amount of any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes (including Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes imposed or asserted on or attributable to amounts payable under this Section) paid by the Administrative Agent or such Lender, as the case may be, and any penalties, interest and reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority.  A certificate as to the amount of such payment delivered to the Borrower by a Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), or by the Administrative Agent on its own behalf or on behalf of a Lender, shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
Indemnification by the Borrower
(d)           .  As soon as practicable after any payment of Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes by the Borrower to a Governmental Authority, the Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing such payment, a copy of the return reporting such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
Evidence of Payments
27
(e)           .  Any Foreign Lender that is entitled to an exemption from or reduction of withholding tax under the law of the jurisdiction in which the Borrower is resident for tax purposes, or any treaty to which such jurisdiction is a party, with respect to payments hereunder or under any other Loan Document shall deliver to the Borrower (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), at the time or times prescribed by applicable law or reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, such properly completed and executed documentation prescribed by applicable law as will permit such payments to be made without withholding or at a reduced rate of withholding.  In addition, any Lender, if requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, shall deliver such other documentation prescribed by applicable law or reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent as will enable the Borrower or the Administrative Agent to determine whether or not such Lender is subject to backup withholding or information reporting requirements.
Status of Lenders
Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, in the event that the Borrower is resident for tax purposes in the United States, any Foreign Lender shall deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent (in such number of copies as shall be requested by the recipient) on or prior to the date on which such Foreign Lender becomes a Lender under this Agreement (and from time to time thereafter upon the request of the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, but only if such Foreign Lender is legally entitled to do so), whichever of the following is applicable:
(i)      duly completed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN claiming eligibility for benefits of an income tax treaty to which the United States is a party,
(ii)     duly completed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8ECI,
(iii)    in the case of a Foreign Lender claiming the benefits of the exemption for portfolio interest under section 881(c) of the Code, (x) a certificate to the effect that such Foreign Lender is not (A) a "bank" within the meaning of section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code, (B) a "10 percent shareholder" of the Borrower within the meaning of section 881(c)(3)(B) of the Code, or (C) a "controlled foreign corporation" described in section 881(c)(3)(C) of the Code and (y) duly completed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN, or
(iv)    any other form prescribed by applicable law as a basis for claiming exemption from or a reduction in United States Federal withholding tax duly completed together with such supplementary documentation as may be prescribed by applicable law to permit the Borrower to determine the withholding or deduction required to be made.
(f)            .  If the Administrative Agent or any Lender determines, in its sole discretion, that it has received a refund of any Taxes or Other Taxes as to which it has been indemnified by the Borrower or with respect to which the Borrower has paid additional amounts pursuant to this Section, it shall pay to the Borrower an amount equal to such refund (but only to the extent of indemnity payments made, or additional amounts paid, by the Borrower under this Section with respect to the Taxes or Other Taxes giving rise to such refund), net of all out-of-pocket expenses of the Administrative Agent or such Lender, as the case may be, and without interest (other than any interest paid by the relevant Governmental Authority with respect to such refund), that the Borrower, upon the request of the Administrative Agent or such Lender, agrees to repay the amount paid over to the Borrower (plus any penalties, interest or other charges imposed by the relevant Governmental Authority) to the Administrative Agent or such Lender in the event the Administrative Agent or such Lender is required to repay such refund to such Governmental Authority.  This subsection shall not be construed to require the Administrative Agent or any Lender to make available its tax returns (or any other information relating to its taxes that it deems confidential) to the Borrower or any other Person.
Treatment of Certain Refunds
provided
28
3.02        .
Illegality
If any Lender determines that any Law has made it unlawful, or that any Governmental Authority has asserted that it is unlawful, for any Lender or its applicable Lending Office to make, maintain or fund Eurodollar Rate Loans, or to determine or charge interest rates based upon the Eurodollar Rate, or any Governmental Authority has imposed material restrictions on the authority of such Lender to purchase or sell, or to take deposits of, Dollars in the London interbank market, then, on notice thereof by such Lender to the Borrower through the Administrative Agent, any obligation of such Lender to make or continue Eurodollar Rate Loans or to convert Base Rate Loans to Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be suspended until such Lender notifies the Administrative Agent and the Borrower that the circumstances giving rise to such determination no longer exist.  Upon receipt of such notice, the Borrower shall, upon demand from such Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), prepay or, if applicable, convert all Eurodollar Rate Loans of such Lender to Base Rate Loans, either on the last day of the Interest Period therefor, if such Lender may lawfully continue to maintain such Eurodollar Rate Loans to such day, or immediately, if such Lender may not lawfully continue to maintain such Eurodollar Rate Loans.  Upon any such prepayment or conversion, the Borrower shall also pay accrued interest on the amount so prepaid or converted.
3.03        .
Inability to Determine Rates
If the Requisite Lenders determine that for any reason in connection with any request for a Eurodollar Rate Loan or a conversion to or continuation thereof that (a) Dollar deposits are not being offered to banks in the London interbank eurodollar market for the applicable amount and Interest Period of such Eurodollar Rate Loan, (b) adequate and reasonable means do not exist for determining the Eurodollar Rate for any requested Interest Period with respect to a proposed Eurodollar Rate Loan, or (c) the Eurodollar Rate for any requested Interest Period with respect to a proposed Eurodollar Rate Loan does not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Lenders of funding such Loan, the Administrative Agent will promptly so notify the Borrower and each Lender.  Thereafter, the obligation of the Lenders to make or maintain Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be suspended until the Administrative Agent (upon the instruction of the Requisite Lenders) revokes such notice.  Upon receipt of such notice, the Borrower may revoke any pending request for a Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans or, failing that, will be deemed to have converted such request into a request for a Borrowing of Base Rate Loans in the amount specified therein.
3.04        .
Increased Costs; Reserves on Eurodollar Rate Loans
(a)           .  If any Change in Law shall:
Increased Costs Generally
(i)      impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve, special deposit, compulsory loan, insurance charge or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended or participated in by, any Lender (except any reserve requirement contemplated by );
Section 3.04(e)
(ii)     subject any Lender to any tax of any kind whatsoever with respect to this Agreement, any Eurodollar Loan made by it or change the basis of taxation of payments to such Lender in respect thereof (except for Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes covered by and the imposition of, or any change in the rate of, any Excluded Tax payable by such Lender); or
Section 3.01
(iii)    impose on any Lender or the London interbank market any other condition, cost or expense affecting this Agreement or Eurodollar Loans made by such Lender or participation therein;
29
and the result of any of the foregoing shall be to increase the cost to such Lender of making or maintaining any Eurodollar Loan (or of maintaining its obligation to make any such Loan) or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by such Lender hereunder (whether of principal, interest or any other amount) then, upon request of such Lender, the Borrower will pay to such Lender such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender, as the case may be, for such additional costs incurred or reduction suffered.
(b)           .  If any Lender determines that any Change in Law affecting such Lender or any Lending Office of such Lender or such Lender's holding company, if any, regarding capital requirements has or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lender's capital or on the capital of such Lender's holding company, if any, as a consequence of this Agreement, the Commitments of such Lender or the Loans made by such Lender to a level below that which such Lender or such Lender's holding company could have achieved but for such Change in Law (taking into consideration such Lender's policies and the policies of such Lender's holding company with respect to capital adequacy), then from time to time the Borrower will pay to such Lender such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or such Lender's holding company for any such reduction suffered.
Capital Requirements
(c)           .  A certificate of a Lender setting forth the amount or amounts necessary to compensate such Lender or its holding company, as the case may be, as specified in subsection (a) or (b) of this Section and delivered to the Borrower, in detail sufficient to enable the Borrower to verify the computation thereof, shall be conclusive absent manifest error.  The Borrower shall pay such Lender the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof.
Certificates for Reimbursement
(d)           .  Failure or delay on the part of any Lender to demand compensation pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section shall not constitute a waiver of such Lender's right to demand such compensation, that the Borrower shall not be required to compensate a Lender pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section for any increased costs incurred or reductions suffered more than nine months prior to the date that such Lender notifies the Borrower of the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions and of such Lender's intention to claim compensation therefor (except that, if the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions is retroactive, then the nine month period referred to above shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof).
Delay in Requests
provided
(e)           .  The Borrower shall pay to each Lender, as long as such Lender shall be required to maintain reserves with respect to liabilities or assets consisting of or including Eurocurrency funds or deposits (currently known as "Eurocurrency liabilities"), additional interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Eurodollar Rate Loan equal to the actual costs of such reserves allocated to such Loan by such Lender (as determined by such Lender in good faith, which determination shall be conclusive), which shall be due and payable on each date on which interest is payable on such Loan, the Borrower shall have received at least 10 days' prior notice (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) of such additional interest from such Lender.  If a Lender fails to give notice 10 days prior to the relevant Interest Payment Date, such additional interest shall be due and payable 10 days from receipt of such notice.
Reserves on Eurodollar Rate Loans
provided
3.05        .
Compensation for Losses
Upon demand of any Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) from time to time, the Borrower shall promptly compensate such Lender for and hold such Lender harmless from any loss, cost or expense (other than loss of anticipated profits) incurred by it as a result of:
30
(a)           any continuation, conversion, payment or prepayment of any Loan other than a Base Rate Loan on a day other than the last day of the Interest Period for such Loan (whether voluntary, mandatory, automatic, by reason of acceleration, or otherwise);
(b)           any failure by the Borrower (for a reason other than the failure of such Lender to make a Loan) to prepay, borrow, continue or convert any Loan other than a Base Rate Loan on the date or in the amount notified by the Borrower; or
(c)           any assignment of a Eurodollar Rate Loan on a day other than the last day of the Interest Period therefor as a result of a request by the Borrower pursuant to .
Section 10.13
The Borrower shall also pay any customary administrative fees charged by such Lender in connection with the foregoing.
For purposes of calculating amounts payable by the Borrower to the Lenders under this , each Lender shall be deemed to have funded each Eurodollar Rate Loan made by it at the Eurodollar Rate for such Loan by a matching deposit or other borrowing in the London interbank eurodollar market for a comparable amount and for a comparable period, whether or not such Eurodollar Rate Loan was in fact so funded.
Section 3.05
3.06        .
Mitigation Obligations; Replacement of Lenders
(a)           .  If any Lender requests compensation under , or the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to , or if any Lender gives a notice pursuant to , then such Lender shall use reasonable efforts to designate a different Lending Office for funding or booking its Loans hereunder or to assign its rights and obligations hereunder to another of its offices, branches or affiliates, if, in the judgment of such Lender, such designation or assignment (i) would eliminate or reduce amounts payable pursuant to or , as the case may be, in the future, or eliminate the need for the notice pursuant to , as applicable, and (ii) in each case, would not subject such Lender to any unreimbursed cost or expense and would not otherwise be disadvantageous to such Lender.  The Borrower hereby agrees to pay all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by any Lender in connection with any such designation or assignment.
Designation of a Different Lending Office
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
Section 3.02
Section 3.01
3.04
Section 3.02
(b)           .  If any Lender requests compensation under , or if the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to , the Borrower may replace such Lender in accordance with .
Replacement of Lenders
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
Section 10.13
3.07        .
Survival
All of the Borrower's obligations under this shall survive termination of the Commitments and repayment of all other Obligations hereunder.
Article III
31
4.01        .
Conditions of Initial Credit Extension
The effectiveness of this Agreement and the obligation of each Lender to make its Credit Extension hereunder are subject to satisfaction of the following conditions precedent:
(a)           The Administrative Agent's receipt of the following, each of which shall be originals or telecopies (followed promptly by originals) unless otherwise specified, each properly executed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower, each dated the Closing Date (or, in the case of certificates of governmental officials, a recent date before the Closing Date) and each in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and each of the Lenders:
(i)      executed counterparts, sufficient in number for distribution to the Administrative Agent, each Lender and the Borrower, of this Agreement, executed and delivered by the Administrative Agent, the Borrower and each Lender listed on ;
Schedule 2.01
(ii)     a Note executed by the Borrower in favor of each Lender requesting a Note;
(iii)    such certificates of resolutions or other action, incumbency certificates and/or other certificates of Responsible Officers of the Borrower and each Guarantor as the Administrative Agent may require evidencing the identity, authority and capacity of each Responsible Officer thereof authorized to act as a Responsible Officer in connection with this Agreement and the other Loan Documents to which the Borrower and each Guarantor are a party;
(iv)    such documents and certifications as the Administrative Agent may reasonably require to evidence that the Borrower and each Guarantor are duly organized or formed, and that the Borrower and each Guarantor are validly existing, in good standing and qualified to engage in business in its state of organization and in each jurisdiction where its ownership, lease or operation of properties or the conduct of its business requires such qualification, except to the extent that failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect;
(v)     a favorable opinion of Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP, counsel to the Borrower, addressed to the Administrative Agent and each Lender, as to the matters set forth in and such other matters concerning the Borrower and each Guarantor and the Loan Documents as the Requisite Lenders may reasonably request;
Exhibit F
(vi)    a certificate of a Responsible Officer of the Borrower and each Guarantor either (A) attaching copies of all consents, licenses and approvals required in connection with the execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower and each Guarantor and the validity against the Borrower and each Guarantor of the Loan Documents to which it is a party, and such consents, licenses and approvals shall be in full force and effect, or (B) stating that no such consents, licenses or approvals are so required;
32
(vii)   a certificate signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower certifying (A) that the conditions specified in and have been satisfied (other than as to the Acquired Business); (B) that there has been no event or circumstance since December 31, 2005 that has had or could be reasonably expected to have, either individually or in the aggregate, a Closing Date Material Adverse Effect and (C) the current Debt Ratings;
Sections 4.01(h)
(i)
(viii)  a certificate signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower certifying that the representations and warranties relating to the Acquired Business set forth in , , , and (the "") are true and correct on and as of the Closing Date, except to the extent that such representations and warranties specifically refer to an earlier date, in which case they are true and correct as of such earlier date;
Sections 5.01
5.02
5.04
5.14
5.18
Specified Representations
(ix)    a duly completed Compliance Certificate signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower demonstrating compliance with on June 30, 2006, after giving effect to the Transactions;
Section 7.10
(x)     evidence that the Existing Credit Agreement and the Existing CNL Credit Agreement have been or concurrently with the Closing Date are being terminated and all Liens securing obligations under the Existing Credit Agreement and the Existing CNL Credit Agreement, if any, have been or concurrently with the Closing Date are being released; and
(xi)    such other assurances, certificates, documents, consents or opinions as the Administrative Agent or the Requisite Lenders reasonably may require.
(b)           Any fees required to be paid on or before the Closing Date shall have been paid.
(c)           Unless waived by the Administrative Agent, the Borrower shall have paid all fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the Administrative Agent to the extent invoiced prior to or on the Closing Date, plus such additional amounts of such fees, charges and disbursements as shall constitute its reasonable estimate of such fees, charges and disbursements incurred or to be incurred by it through the closing proceedings ( that such estimate shall not thereafter preclude a final settling of accounts between the Borrower and the Administrative Agent).
provided
(d)           The Acquisitions and the other Transactions shall be consummated in accordance with the Acquisition Agreements and the other documentation related to the Acquisitions and each of the other Transactions, each as in effect on the date hereof (collectively, the "") without waiver or amendment thereof that is materially adverse to the Lenders unless consented to by Bank of America, N.A., and UBS Loan Finance LLC.
Acquisition Documents
(e)           The Borrower shall have received gross proceeds of not more than $2,700,000,000 from borrowings under the Bank Loan Agreement, such Bank Loan Agreement to be in form and substance satisfactory to Bank of America, N.A., and UBS Loan Finance LLC, and to provide for (A) a revolving credit facility in favor of the Borrower of not less than $1,000,000,000 (of which not more than $650,000,000 will be drawn or advanced in the form of letters of credit at the Closing Date) and (B) a term loan facility in favor of the Borrower of $1,700,000,000, which shall be fully drawn at the Closing Date.
33
(f)            There shall not have occurred any Closing Date Material Adverse Effect since December 31, 2005.
(g)           The Borrower and each of the Guarantors shall have provided the documentation and other information to the Lenders that is required by regulatory authorities under applicable "know your customer" and anti-money-laundering rules and regulations, including, without limitation, the Patriot Act.
(h)           The representations and warranties of the Borrower contained in or any other Loan Document, or which are contained in any document furnished at any time under or in connection herewith or therewith, shall be true and correct on and as of the date hereof, except to the extent that such representations and warranties specifically refer to an earlier date, in which case they shall be true and correct as of such earlier date, and except that for purposes of this , the representations and warranties contained in subsections (a) and (b) of shall be deemed to refer to the most recent statements furnished pursuant to clauses (a) and (b), respectively, of .
Article V
Section 4.01
Section 5.05
Section 6.01
(i)            No Default shall exist, or would result from such proposed Credit Extension or from the application of the proceeds thereof.
(j)            The Administrative Agent shall have received a Request for Credit Extension in accordance with the requirements hereof.
Without limiting the generality of the provisions of , for purposes of determining compliance with the conditions specified in this , each Lender that has signed this Agreement shall be deemed to have consented to, approved or accepted or to be satisfied with, (i) this Agreement and each other document to which it is a party or which it has reviewed or (ii) any other matter required thereunder to be consented to or approved by or acceptable or satisfactory to a Lender unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from such Lender prior to the proposed Closing Date specifying its objection thereto.
Section 9.04
Section 4.01
Each Request for Credit Extension (other than a Bridge Loan Notice requesting only a conversion of Loans to the other Type or a continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans) submitted by the Borrower shall be deemed to be a representation and warranty that the conditions specified in and have been satisfied on and as of the date of the Credit Extension.
Sections 4.01(h)
(i)
The Borrower represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders that:
5.01        .
Existence, Qualification and Power; Compliance with Laws
The Borrower and each of its Subsidiaries (a) is duly organized or formed, validly existing and in good standing under the Laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation or organization, (b) has all requisite power and authority and all requisite governmental licenses, authorizations, consents and approvals to (i) own its assets and carry on its business and (ii) execute, deliver and perform its obligations under the Loan Documents to which it is a party, (c) is duly qualified and is licensed and in good standing under the Laws of each jurisdiction where its ownership, lease or operation of properties or the conduct of its business requires such qualification or license, and (d) is in compliance with all Laws; except in each case referred to in clause (b)(i), (c) or (d), to the extent that failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
34
5.02        .
Authorization; No Contravention
The execution, delivery and performance by the applicable Loan Parties of each Loan Document to which the applicable Loan Parties are parties, have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate or other organizational action, and do not and will not (a) contravene the terms of any of the applicable Loan Parties' Organization Documents; (b) conflict with or result in any breach or contravention of, or the creation of any Lien under, or require any payment to be made under (i) any Contractual Obligation to which the applicable Loan Parties are parties or affecting the applicable Loan Parties or the properties of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or (ii) any order, injunction, writ or decree of any Governmental Authority or any arbitral award to which the applicable Loan Parties or their property is subject; or (c) violate any Law.  The applicable Loan Parties and each Subsidiary thereof are in compliance with all Contractual Obligations referred to in clause (b)(i), except to the extent that failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
5.03        .
Governmental Authorization; Other Consents
No approval, consent, exemption, authorization, or other action by, or notice to, or filing with, any Governmental Authority or any other Person is necessary or required in connection with the execution, delivery or performance by, or enforcement against, the Loan Parties of this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
5.04        .
Binding Effect
This Agreement has been, and each other Loan Document, when delivered hereunder, will have been, duly executed and delivered by the Loan Parties.  This Agreement constitutes, and each other Loan Document when so delivered will constitute, a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Loan Parties, enforceable against the Loan Parties in accordance with its terms.
5.05        .
Financial Statements; No Material Adverse Effect
(a)           The Audited Financial Statements (i) were prepared in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the period covered thereby, except as otherwise expressly noted therein; (ii) fairly present the financial condition of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the date thereof and their results of operations for the period covered thereby in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the period covered thereby, except as otherwise expressly noted therein; and (iii) show all material indebtedness and other liabilities, direct or contingent, of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the date thereof, including liabilities for taxes, material commitments and Indebtedness.
(b)           The unaudited consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries dated June 30, 2006, and the related consolidated statements of income or operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for the fiscal quarter ended on that date (i) were prepared in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the period covered thereby, except as otherwise expressly noted therein, (ii) fairly present the financial condition of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the date thereof and their results of operations for the period covered thereby, subject, in the case of clauses (i) and (ii), to the absence of footnotes and to normal year-end audit adjustments and (iii) show all material indebtedness and other liabilities, direct or contingent, of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the date thereof, including liabilities for taxes, material commitments and Indebtedness.
35
(c)           Since the date of the Audited Financial Statements, there has been no event or circumstance, either individually or in the aggregate, that has had or could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
(d)           The financial information of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries delivered pursuant to (i) were prepared in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the period covered thereby, except as otherwise expressly noted therein; (ii) fairly present the financial condition of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the date thereof and their results of operations for the period covered thereby in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the period covered thereby, except as otherwise expressly noted therein; and (iii) show all material indebtedness and other liabilities, direct or contingent, of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the date thereof, including liabilities for taxes, material commitments and Indebtedness.
Section 6.01
(e)           To the best knowledge of the Borrower, no Internal Control Event exists or has occurred since the date of the Audited Financial Statements that has resulted in or could reasonably be expected to result in a misstatement in any material respect, in any financial information heretofore delivered to the Administrative Agent or the Lenders, of (i) covenant compliance calculations provided hereunder or (ii) the assets, liabilities, financial condition or results of operations of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.
5.06        .
Litigation
There are no actions, suits, proceedings, claims, investigations or disputes pending or, to the knowledge of the Borrower after due and diligent investigation, threatened or contemplated, at law, in equity, in arbitration or before any Governmental Authority, by or against the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or against any of their properties or revenues that (a) purport to affect or pertain to this Agreement or any other Loan Document, or any of the transactions contemplated hereby, or (b) either individually or in the aggregate, if determined adversely, could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
5.07        .
No Default
Neither the Borrower nor any Subsidiary is in default under or with respect to any Contractual Obligation that could, either individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.  No Default has occurred and is continuing or would result from the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
5.08        .
Ownership of Property; Liens; Leases
(a)           Each of the Borrower and each Subsidiary has good record and marketable title in fee simple to, or valid leasehold interests in, all real property necessary or used in the ordinary conduct of its business, except for such defects in title as could not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
(b)           The property of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries is subject to no Liens, other than Liens permitted by .
Section 7.01
(c)           Except as could not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, (i) there are no renewal or extension options applicable to any lease to which the Borrower or any Subsidiary is a party; (ii) to the Borrower's knowledge, no condition exists which, with the giving of notice or the passage of time, or both, would permit any lessee to cancel its obligations
36
under any lease to which the Borrower or any Subsidiary is a party; (iii) the Borrower has received no notice that any lessee intends to cease operations at any leased property prior to the expiration of the term of the applicable lease (other than temporarily due to casualty, remodeling, renovation or any similar causes) and (iv) to the Borrower's knowledge, none of the lessees or their sub-lessees, if any, under any of the leases to which the Borrower or any Subsidiary is a party is the subject of any bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency or similar proceeding.
5.09        .
Environmental Compliance
The Borrower and its Subsidiaries conduct in the ordinary course of business a review of the effect of existing Environmental Laws and claims alleging potential liability or responsibility for violation of any Environmental Law on their respective businesses, operations and properties, and as a result thereof the Borrower has reasonably concluded that such Environmental Laws and claims could not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
5.10        .
Insurance
The properties of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries are insured with financially sound and reputable insurance companies not Affiliates of the Borrower, in such amounts, with such deductibles and covering such risks as are customarily carried by companies engaged in similar businesses and owning similar properties in localities where the Borrower or the applicable Subsidiary operates.
5.11        .
Taxes
The Borrower and its Subsidiaries have filed all Federal, state and other material tax returns and reports required to be filed, and have paid all Federal, state and other material taxes, assessments, fees and other governmental charges levied or imposed upon them or their properties, income or assets otherwise due and payable, except those which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted and for which adequate reserves have been provided in accordance with GAAP.  There is no proposed tax assessment against the Borrower or any Subsidiary that would, if made, have a Material Adverse Effect.  Neither the Borrower nor any Subsidiary thereof is party to any tax sharing agreement.
5.12        .
ERISA Compliance
(a)           Each Plan is in compliance in all material respects with the applicable provisions of ERISA, the Code and other Federal or state Laws.  Each Plan that is intended to qualify under Section 401(a) of the Code has received a favorable determination letter from the IRS or an application for such a letter is currently being processed by the IRS with respect thereto and, to the best knowledge of the Borrower, nothing has occurred which would prevent, or cause the loss of, such qualification.  The Borrower and each ERISA Affiliate have made all required contributions to each Plan subject to Section 412 of the Code, and no application for a funding waiver or an extension of any amortization period pursuant to Section 412 of the Code has been made with respect to any Plan.
(b)           There are no pending or, to the best knowledge of the Borrower, threatened claims, actions or lawsuits, or action by any Governmental Authority, with respect to any Plan that could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.  There has been no prohibited transaction or violation of the fiduciary responsibility rules with respect to any Plan that has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
37
(c)           (i) No ERISA Event has occurred or is reasonably expected to occur; (ii) no Pension Plan has any Unfunded Pension Liability; (iii) neither the Borrower nor any ERISA Affiliate has incurred, or reasonably expects to incur, any liability under Title IV of ERISA with respect to any Pension Plan (other than premiums due and not delinquent under Section 4007 of ERISA); (iv) neither the Borrower nor any ERISA Affiliate has incurred, or reasonably expects to incur, any liability (and no event has occurred which, with the giving of notice under Section 4219 of ERISA, would result in such liability) under Sections 4201 or 4243 of ERISA with respect to a Multiemployer Plan; and (v) neither the Borrower nor any ERISA Affiliate has engaged in a transaction that could be subject to Sections 4069 or 4212(c) of ERISA.
5.13        .
Subsidiaries; Equity Interests; Subsidiary Guarantors
(a)           As of the Closing Date, the Borrower has no Subsidiaries other than those specifically disclosed in Part (a) of , and the outstanding Equity Interests in such Subsidiaries have been validly issued, are fully paid and nonassessable and are owned by the Borrower or one of its Subsidiaries in the amounts specified on Part (a) of free and clear of all Liens.  Part (a) of discloses, for each of the Borrower's direct and indirect Subsidiaries existing as of the Closing Date:
Schedule 5.13
Schedule 5.13
Schedule 5.13
(i)      the percentage of the outstanding Equity Interests in the Subsidiary that is beneficially owned by the Borrower, including Equity Interests acquired as a result of the Acquisitions;
(ii)     the Total Asset Value of the Subsidiary;
(iii)    the amount of Indebtedness of the Subsidiary;
(iv)    the amount of Indebtedness of the Subsidiary that is secured by a Lien (other than Permitted Liens);
(v)     a notation whether or not the Subsidiary is a Guarantor and, if not, a description of the basis on which the Subsidiary is not required to be a Guarantor pursuant to ; and
Section 6.13
(vi)    the amount of revenue of the Subsidiary for the six month period ended June 30, 2006.
(b)           The Borrower has no equity investments in any other Person other than those specifically disclosed in Part (b) of and set forth as part of is an identification of those entities that are Material Joint Ventures.
Schedule 5.13
Schedule 5.13(b)
(c)           As of the Closing Date, the Borrower has no Subsidiaries that would be required to become Subsidiary Guarantors pursuant to other than those Subsidiaries that are Subsidiary Guarantors.
Section 6.13(a)
5.14        .
Margin Regulations; Investment Company Act; REIT Status
(a)           The Borrower is not engaged and will not engage, principally or as one of its important activities, in the business of purchasing or carrying margin stock (within the meaning of Regulation U issued by the FRB), or extending credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stock.
38
(b)           None of the Borrower, any Person Controlling the Borrower, or any Subsidiary is or is required to be registered as an "investment company" under the Investment Company Act of 1940.
(c)           The Borrower meets all requirements to qualify as a REIT.  No Subsidiary is required to qualify as a REIT on or after the Closing Date.
5.15        .
Disclosure
The Borrower has disclosed to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders all agreements, instruments and corporate or other restrictions to which it or any of its Subsidiaries is subject, and all other matters known to it, that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.  No report, financial statement, certificate or other information furnished (whether in writing or orally) by or on behalf of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries to the Administrative Agent or any Lender in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby and the negotiation of this Agreement or delivered hereunder or under any other Loan Document (in each case, as modified or supplemented by other information so furnished) contains any material misstatement of fact or omits to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; that, with respect to projected financial information, the Borrower represents only that such information was prepared in good faith based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable at the time.
provided
5.16        .
Compliance with Laws
Each of the Borrower and each Subsidiary is in compliance in all material respects with the requirements of all Laws and all orders, writs, injunctions and decrees applicable to it or to its properties, except in such instances in which (a) such requirement of Law or order, writ, injunction or decree is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted or (b) the failure to comply therewith, either individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
5.17        .
Intellectual Property; Licenses, Etc
The Borrower and its Subsidiaries own, or possess the right to use, all of the trademarks, service marks, trade names, copyrights, patents, patent rights, franchises, licenses and other intellectual property rights (collectively, "") that are reasonably necessary for the operation of their respective businesses, without conflict with the rights of any other Person.  To the best knowledge of the Borrower, no slogan or other advertising device, product, process, method, substance, part or other material now employed, or now contemplated to be employed, by the Borrower or any Subsidiary infringes upon any rights held by any other Person.  No claim or litigation regarding any of the foregoing is pending or, to the best knowledge of the Borrower, threatened, which, either individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
IP Rights
5.18        .
Use of Proceeds
The proceeds of the Loans hereunder will be used solely for the purposes specified in .  No proceeds of the Loans hereunder will be used for the acquisition of another Person unless the board of directors (or other comparable governing body) or stockholders (or other equity owners), as appropriate, of such Person has approved such acquisition.
Section 6.11
39
5.19        .
Taxpayer Identification Number
The Borrower's true and correct U.S. taxpayer identification number is set forth on .
Schedule 10.02
5.20        .
Acquisition Documents
The Lenders have been furnished true and complete copies of each Acquisition Document to the extent executed and delivered on or prior to the Closing Date.
So long as any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, any Loan or other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied, the Borrower shall, and shall (except in the case of the covenants set forth in , , and ) cause each Subsidiary to:
Sections 6.01
6.02
6.03
6.01        .
Financial Statements
Deliver to the Administrative Agent and each Lender, in form and detail satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the Requisite Lenders:
(a)           as soon as available, but in any event within five days of the date the Borrower is required to file its Form 10-K with the SEC (without giving effect to any extension of such due date, whether obtained by filing the notification permitted by Rule 12b-25 or any successor provision thereto or otherwise) (commencing with the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006), a consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at the end of such fiscal year, and the related consolidated statements of income or operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for such fiscal year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the previous fiscal year, all in reasonable detail and prepared in accordance with GAAP, such consolidated statements to be audited and accompanied by (i) a report and opinion of a Registered Public Accounting Firm of nationally recognized standing reasonably acceptable to the Requisite Lenders, which report and opinion shall be prepared in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards and applicable Securities Laws and shall not be subject to any "going concern" or like qualification or exception or any qualification or exception as to the scope of such audit or with respect to the absence of any material misstatement and (ii) an opinion of such Registered Public Accounting Firm independently assessing the Borrower's internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Item 308 of SEC Regulation S-K, PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 2, and Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; and
(b)           as soon as available, but in any event within five days of the date the Borrower is required to file its Form 10-Q with the SEC (without giving effect to any extension of such due date, whether obtained by filing the notification permitted by Rule 12b-25 or any successor provision thereto or otherwise) (commencing with the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2006), a consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower as at the end of such fiscal quarter, and the related consolidated statements of income or operations for such fiscal quarter and for the portion of the Borrower's fiscal year then ended, and a statement of cash flow for the portion of the Borrower's fiscal year then ended setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the corresponding fiscal quarter of the previous fiscal year and the corresponding portion of the previous fiscal year, all in reasonable detail, such consolidated statements to be certified by a
40
Responsible Officer of the Borrower as fairly presenting the financial condition, results of operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in accordance with GAAP, subject only to normal year-end audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes; and
(c)           as soon as available, but in no event later that 60 days following the end of each fiscal year of the Borrower, an annual forecast for the then-current fiscal year, prepared in a manner and in the form of the forecast provided on the Closing Date or in such other form as is reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent and the Requisite Lenders.
As to any information contained in materials furnished pursuant to , the Borrower shall not be separately required to furnish such information under clause (a) or (b) above, but the foregoing shall not be in derogation of the obligation of the Borrower to furnish the information and materials described in clauses (a) and (b) above at the times specified therein.
Section 6.02(d)
6.02        .
Certificates; Other Information
Deliver to the Administrative Agent and each Lender, in form and detail satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the Requisite Lenders:
(a)           concurrently with the delivery of the financial statements referred to in and (commencing with the delivery of the financial statements for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2006), a duly completed Compliance Certificate signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower;
Sections 6.01(a)
(b)
(b)           promptly after any request by the Administrative Agent or any Lender, copies of any management letters submitted to the board of directors (or the audit committee of the board of directors) of the Borrower by independent accountants in connection with an audit of the accounts of the Borrower;
(c)           concurrently with the delivery of the financial statements referred to in , a certificate of its independent certified public accountants certifying such financial statements and stating that in making the examination necessary therefor no knowledge was obtained of any Default or, if any such Default shall exist, stating the nature and status of such event;
Section 6.01(a)
(d)           promptly after the same are available, copies of each annual report, proxy or financial statement or other report or communication sent to the stockholders of the Borrower, and copies of all annual, regular, periodic and special reports and registration statements which the Borrower may file or be required to file with the SEC under Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and not otherwise required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent pursuant hereto;
(e)           promptly, and in any event within five Business Days after receipt thereof by the Borrower or any Subsidiary thereof, copies of each notice or other correspondence received from the SEC (or comparable agency in any applicable non-U.S. jurisdiction) concerning any investigation by such agency regarding financial or other operational results of the Borrower or any Subsidiary thereof; and
(f)            promptly, such additional information regarding the business, financial or corporate affairs of the Borrower or any Subsidiary, or compliance with the terms of the Loan Documents, as the Administrative Agent or any Lender may from time to time reasonably request.
41
Documents required to be delivered pursuant to or or (to the extent any such documents are included in materials otherwise filed with the SEC) may be delivered electronically and if so delivered, shall be deemed to have been delivered on the date (i) on which the Borrower posts such documents, or provides a link thereto on the Borrower's website on the Internet at the website address listed on ; or (ii) on which such documents are posted on the Borrower's behalf on an Internet or intranet website, if any, to which each Lender and the Administrative Agent have access (whether a commercial, third-party website or whether sponsored by the Administrative Agent); that:  (i) the Borrower shall deliver paper copies of such documents to the Administrative Agent or any Lender that requests the Borrower to deliver such paper copies until a written request to cease delivering paper copies is given by the Administrative Agent or such Lender and (ii) the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent and each Lender (by telecopier or electronic mail) of the posting of any such documents and provide to the Administrative Agent by electronic mail electronic versions (., soft copies) of such documents.  Notwithstanding anything contained herein, in every instance the Borrower shall be required to provide paper copies of the Compliance Certificates required by to the Administrative Agent.  Except for such Compliance Certificates, the Administrative Agent shall have no obligation to request the delivery or to maintain copies of the documents referred to above, and in any event shall have no responsibility to monitor compliance by the Borrower with any such request for delivery, and each Lender shall be solely responsible for requesting delivery to it or maintaining its copies of such documents.
Section 6.01(a)
(b)
Section 6.02(d)
Schedule 10.02
provided
i.e
Section 6.02(a)
The Borrower hereby acknowledges that (a) the Administrative Agent and/or the Arrangers will make available to the Lenders materials and/or information provided by or on behalf of the Borrower hereunder (collectively, "") by posting the Borrower Materials on IntraLinks or another similar electronic system (the "") and (b) certain of the Lenders may be "public-side" Lenders (i.e., Lenders that do not wish to receive material non-public information with respect to the Borrower or its securities) (each, a "").  The Borrower hereby agrees that so long as the Borrower is the issuer of any outstanding debt or equity securities that are registered or issued pursuant to a private offering or is actively contemplating issuing any such securities (w) all Borrower Materials that are to be made available to Public Lenders shall be clearly and conspicuously marked "PUBLIC" which, at a minimum, shall mean that the word "PUBLIC" shall appear prominently on the first page thereof; (x) by marking Borrower Materials "PUBLIC," the Borrower shall be deemed to have authorized the Administrative Agent, the Arrangers and the Lenders to treat such Borrower Materials as not containing any material non-public information with respect to the Borrower or its securities for purposes of United States Federal and state securities laws (, , that to the extent such Borrower Materials constitute Information, they shall be treated as set forth in ); (y) all Borrower Materials marked "PUBLIC" are permitted to be made available through a portion of the Platform designated "Public Investor;" and (z) the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers shall be entitled to treat any Borrower Materials that are not marked "PUBLIC" as being suitable only for posting on a portion of the Platform not designated "Public Investor."  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Borrower shall be under no obligation to mark any Borrower Materials "PUBLIC."
Borrower Materials
Platform
Public Lender
provided
however
Section 10.07
6.03        .
Notices
Promptly notify the Administrative Agent and each Lender of:
(a)           the occurrence of any Default;
42
(b)           any matter that has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, including (i) breach or non-performance of, or any default under, a Contractual Obligation of the Borrower or any Subsidiary; (ii) any dispute, litigation, investigation, proceeding or suspension between the Borrower or any Subsidiary and any Governmental Authority; or (iii) the commencement of, or any material development in, any litigation or proceeding affecting the Borrower or any Subsidiary, including pursuant to any applicable Environmental Laws;
(c)           the occurrence of any ERISA Event;
(d)           any material change in accounting policies or financial reporting practices by the Borrower or any Subsidiary;
(e)           any announcement by Moody's or S&P of any change or possible change in a Debt Rating; and
(f)            of the determination by the Registered Public Accounting Firm providing the opinion required under (in connection with its preparation of such  opinion) or the Borrower's determination at any time of the occurrence or existence of any Internal Control Event.
Section 6.01(a)(ii)
Each notice pursuant to this Section shall be accompanied by a statement of a Responsible Officer of the Borrower setting forth details of the occurrence referred to therein and stating what action the Borrower has taken and proposes to take with respect thereto.  Each notice pursuant to shall describe with particularity any and all provisions of this Agreement and any other Loan Document that have been breached.
Section 6.03(a)
6.04        .
Payment of Obligations
Pay and discharge as the same shall become due and payable, all its obligations and liabilities, including (a) all tax liabilities, assessments and governmental charges or levies upon it or its properties or assets, unless the same are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted and adequate reserves in accordance with GAAP are being maintained by the Borrower or such Subsidiary; (b) all lawful claims which, if unpaid, would by law become a Lien upon its property; and (c) all Indebtedness, as and when due and payable, but subject to any subordination provisions contained in any instrument or agreement evidencing such Indebtedness, in each case except where the failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
6.05        .
Preservation of Existence, Etc
(a) Preserve, renew and maintain in full force and effect its legal existence and good standing under the Laws of the jurisdiction of its organization except in a transaction not prohibited by or , or to the extent that failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; (b) take all reasonable action to maintain all rights, privileges, permits, licenses and franchises necessary or desirable in the normal conduct of its business, except to the extent that failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; and (c) preserve or renew all of its registered patents, trademarks, trade names and service marks, the non-preservation of which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Borrower will do all things necessary to maintain its status as a REIT.
Section 7.04
7.05
43
6.06        .
Maintenance of Properties
(a) Maintain, preserve and protect, or make contractual or other provisions to cause to maintain, preserve or protect, all of its properties and equipment necessary in the operation of its business in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted, in each case except where the failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; (b) make, or make contractual or other provisions to cause to be made, all necessary repairs thereto and renewals and replacements thereof except where the failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; and (c) use the standard of care typical in the industry in the operation and maintenance of its facilities.
6.07        .
Maintenance of Insurance
(a)           Maintain with financially sound and reputable insurance companies not Affiliates of the Borrower, insurance with respect to its properties and business against loss or damage of the kinds customarily insured against by Persons engaged in the same or similar business, of such types and in such amounts as are customarily carried under similar circumstances by such other Persons.
(b)           Use its, and cause the Subsidiaries to use their, commercially reasonable best efforts to ensure that each lessee of a property owned in whole or in part, directly or indirectly, by the Borrower or any Subsidiary, and each mortgagee of a property on which the Borrower or any Subsidiary holds a mortgage, has, and until the Maturity Date will keep, in place adequate insurance that names the Borrower or such Subsidiary as a loss payee.  For purposes of the preceding sentence "" shall mean insurance, with financially sound and reputable insurers in such amounts and insuring against such risks as are customarily maintained by similar businesses.
adequate insurance
6.08        .
Compliance with Laws
Comply in all material respects with the requirements of all Laws and all orders, writs, injunctions and decrees applicable to it or to its business or property, except in such instances in which (a) such requirement of Law or order, writ, injunction or decree is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted; or (b) the failure to comply therewith could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
6.09        .
Books and Records
Maintain proper books of record and account, in which full, true and correct entries in conformity with GAAP consistently applied shall be made of all financial transactions and matters involving the assets and business of the Borrower or such Subsidiary, as the case may be.
6.10        .
Inspection Rights
Permit representatives and independent contractors of the Administrative Agent and each Lender to visit and inspect any of its properties, to examine its corporate, financial and operating records, and make copies thereof or abstracts therefrom, and to discuss its affairs, finances and accounts with its directors, officers, and independent public accountants, all at the expense of the Borrower and at such reasonable times during normal business hours and as often as may be reasonably desired, upon reasonable advance notice to the Borrower; , , that when an Event of Default exists the Administrative Agent or any Lender (or any of their respective representatives or independent contractors) may do any of the foregoing at the expense of the Borrower at any time during normal business hours and without advance notice.
provided
however
44
6.11        .
Use of Proceeds
Use proceeds from the Loans to finance, in part, the CNL Merger and the Advisor Merger, to pay transaction fees, commissions and expenses in connection therewith and to repay the amounts owed under the Existing Credit Agreement and the Existing CNL Credit Agreement.
6.12        .
REIT Status
The Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, operate its business at all times so as to satisfy all requirements necessary to qualify and maintain the Borrower's  qualification as a real estate investment trust under Sections 856 through 860 of the Code.  The Borrower will maintain adequate records so as to comply with all record-keeping requirements relating to its qualification as a real estate investment trust as required by the Code and applicable regulations of the Department of the Treasury promulgated thereunder and will properly prepare and timely file with the Internal Revenue Service all returns and reports required thereby.
6.13        .
New Subsidiaries; Guarantees
(a)           Subject to , with respect to any Person that is or becomes a Domestic Subsidiary of the Borrower as to which the Borrower directly or indirectly owns all of the Equity Interests, cause such Subsidiary to execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent a Joinder Agreement, guaranty, guaranty supplement or comparable documentation to become a Subsidiary Guarantor on or before the deadline for the delivery of the next Compliance Certificate pursuant to Section 6.02 (and in any event within 30 days after such person becomes a Subsidiary) and cause such Subsidiary to deliver such other documentation as the Administrative Agent may reasonably request in connection with the foregoing, including, without limitation, certified resolutions and other organizational and authorizing documents of such Subsidiary, favorable opinions of counsel to such Subsidiary (which shall cover, among other things, the legality, validity, binding effect and enforceability of the documentation referred to above), all in form, content and scope reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
Section 6.13(b)
(b)           A Subsidiary of the Borrower shall not be required to become a Subsidiary Guarantor pursuant to if the Borrower provides evidence reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent that such Subsidiary is prohibited by the terms of its articles or certificate of incorporation, operating agreement or other constituent documents, or by contract, from becoming a Guarantor.  If a Subsidiary ceases to or fails to satisfy the requirements of this , the Borrower shall cause such Subsidiary to become a Subsidiary Guarantor as required by .
Section 6.13(a)
Section 6.13(b)
Section 6.13(a)
6.14        .
Employee Benefits
(a) Comply in all material respects with the applicable provisions of ERISA and the Code with respect to each Plan, and (b) furnish to the Administrative Agent (x)  within five days after any Responsible Officer of  the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate knows or has reason to know that, any ERISA Event has occurred that, alone or together with any other ERISA Event could reasonably be expected to result in liability of the Borrower or any of its ERISA Affiliates in an aggregate amount exceeding the Threshold Amount or the imposition of a Lien, a statement setting forth details as to such ERISA Event and the action, if any, that the Borrower or ERISA Affiliate proposes to take with respect thereto, and (y) upon request by the Administrative Agent, copies of (i) each Schedule B (Actuarial Information) to the annual report (Form 5500 Series) filed by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate with the Internal Revenue Service with respect to each Pension Plan; (ii) the most recent actuarial valuation report for each Pension Plan; (iii) all notices received by any Company or any ERISA Affiliate from a Multiemployer Plan sponsor or any governmental agency concerning an ERISA Event; and (iv) such other documents or governmental reports or filings relating to any Plan as the Administrative Agent shall reasonably request.
45
So long as any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder or any Loan or other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied, the Borrower shall not, nor shall it permit any Subsidiary to, directly or indirectly:
7.01        .
Liens
Create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Lien upon any of its property, assets or revenues, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, other than the following:
(a)           Liens pursuant to any Loan Document;
(b)           Liens securing Indebtedness permitted under ;
Section 7.03
(c)           Liens for taxes not yet due or which are being contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted, if adequate reserves with respect thereto are maintained on the books of the applicable Person in accordance with GAAP;
(d)           carriers', warehousemen's, mechanics', materialmen's, repairmen's or other like Liens arising in the ordinary course of business which are not overdue for a period of more than 30 days or which are being contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted, if adequate reserves with respect thereto, to the extent required by GAAP, are maintained on the books of the applicable Person;
(e)           pledges or deposits in the ordinary course of business in connection with workers' compensation, unemployment insurance and other social security legislation, other than any Lien imposed by ERISA;
(f)            deposits to secure the performance of bids, trade contracts and leases (other than Indebtedness), statutory obligations, surety bonds (other than bonds related to judgments or litigation), performance bonds and other obligations of a like nature incurred in the ordinary course of business;
(g)           easements, rights-of-way, restrictions and other similar encumbrances affecting real property which, in the aggregate, are not substantial in amount, and which do not in any case materially detract from the value of the property subject thereto or materially interfere with the ordinary conduct of the business of the applicable Person; and
(h)           Liens securing judgments for the payment of money not constituting an Event of Default under or securing appeal or other surety bonds related to such judgments.
Section 8.01(h)
7.02        .
Investments
(a)           make or allow Investments in Development Property to exceed, in the aggregate at any one time outstanding, 15% of Consolidated Total Asset Value.
46
(b)           make or allow Investments in Joint Ventures to exceed, in the aggregate at any one time outstanding, 25% of Consolidated Total Asset Value.  For purposes of this , the Borrower's aggregate Investment in Joint Ventures will be valued at (i) the aggregate amount of cash and cash equivalents and the book value of other property contributed by the Borrower to the Joint Ventures minus (ii) the aggregate amount of distributions received by the Borrower from the Joint Ventures that would be classified as a return of capital (as opposed to a return on investment).
Section 7.02(b)
7.03        .
Indebtedness
(a)           Create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Indebtedness of the Borrower or any Subsidiary Guarantor, except:
(i)      Indebtedness under the Loan Documents; and
(ii)     other Indebtedness; that after giving effect thereto (including any Liens associated therewith) the Borrower and its Subsidiaries are in compliance with all of the terms of this Agreement, including, but not limited to, the financial covenants set forth in .
provided
Section 7.10
(b)           Create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Secured Debt or any Indebtedness of any Subsidiary of the Borrower that is not a Subsidiary Guarantor (other than Indebtedness owing to the Borrower or another Subsidiary of the Borrower) that, when combined with (i) outstanding Secured Debt and (ii) outstanding Indebtedness of other Subsidiaries that are not Subsidiary Guarantors exceeds 30% of Consolidated Total Asset Value.
7.04        .
Fundamental Changes
Merge, dissolve, liquidate, consolidate with or into another Person, except that, so long as no Default exists or would result therefrom, any Subsidiary may merge with (a) the Borrower, that the Borrower shall be the continuing or surviving Person, or (b) any one or more other Subsidiaries, that when any wholly-owned Subsidiary is merging with another Subsidiary, the wholly-owned Subsidiary shall be the continuing or surviving Person.
provided
provided
7.05        .
Dispositions
Make any Disposition of all or a substantial part of the assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries.
7.06        .
Restricted Payments
Declare or make, directly or indirectly, any Restricted Payment, or incur any obligation (contingent or otherwise) to do so, except that, so long as no Default shall have occurred and be continuing or would result therefrom, the Borrower and each Subsidiary may purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire Equity Interests issued by it in an amount not to exceed, in the aggregate, fifteen percent (15%) of Consolidated Tangible Net Worth during the term of this Agreement.
7.07        .
Change in Nature of Business
Engage in any material line of business substantially different from those lines of business conducted by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on the date hereof or any business substantially related or incidental thereto.
47
7.08        .
Transactions with Affiliates
Enter into any transaction of any kind with any Affiliate of the Borrower (other than a Subsidiary), whether or not in the ordinary course of business, other than on fair and reasonable terms substantially as favorable to the Borrower or such Subsidiary as would be obtainable by the Borrower or such Subsidiary at the time in a comparable arm's-length transaction with a Person other than an Affiliate.
7.09        .
Burdensome Agreements
Enter into any Contractual Obligation (other than this Agreement or any other Loan Document) that limits the ability of (a) any wholly-owned Subsidiary of the Borrower (other than a Subsidiary that is a bankruptcy remote special purpose entity) to Guarantee the Indebtedness of the Borrower or (b) the Borrower to create, incur, assume or suffer to exist Liens on its property; , , that this clause (b) shall not prohibit any negative pledge incurred or provided in favor of any holder of Indebtedness permitted under solely to the extent any such negative pledge (i) relates to the property financed by or the subject of such Indebtedness or (ii) only requires the grant of a Lien to secure such Indebtedness if a Lien is granted by the Borrower to secure other Indebtedness of the Borrower.
provided
however
Section 7.03
7.10        .
Financial Covenants
(a)           .  Permit the Leverage Ratio to be greater than the following amounts as of the end of any fiscal quarter ending during the corresponding period set forth below:
Leverage Ratio
 
(b)           .  Permit the Secured Debt Ratio to be greater than .30 to 1.0 as of the end of any fiscal quarter.
Secured Debt Ratio
(c)           .  Permit the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio to be less than the following amounts as of the end of any fiscal quarter ending during the corresponding period set forth below:
Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio
 
(d)           .  Permit the Unsecured Leverage Ratio to be greater than the following amounts as of the end of any fiscal quarter ending during the corresponding period set forth below:
Unsecured Leverage Ratio
 
48
(e)           .  Permit the Consolidated Tangible Net Worth to be, as of the end of any fiscal quarter, less than (i) 85% of the Consolidated Tangible Net Worth at the Closing Date (on a pro forma basis to reflect the Acquisitions) plus (ii) 85% of Net Cash Proceeds from all Public Equity Issuances subsequent to the Closing Date.
Consolidated Tangible Net Worth
8.01        .
Events of Default
Any of the following shall constitute an Event of Default:
(a)           .  The Borrower or any other Loan Party fails to pay (i) when and as required to be paid herein, any amount of principal of any Loan, or (ii) within three days after the same becomes due, any interest on any Loan or any fee due hereunder, or (iii) within five days after the same becomes due, any other amount payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document; or
Non-Payment
(b)           .  Any Loan Party or any of its Subsidiaries fails to perform or observe any term, covenant or agreement contained in any of , , , , , , or ; or
Specific Covenants
Section 6.01
6.02
6.03
6.05
6.10
6.11
6.13
Article VII
(c)           .  Any Loan Party fails to perform or observe any other covenant or agreement (not specified in subsection (a) or (b) above) contained in any Loan Document on its part to be performed or observed and such failure continues for 30 days; or
Other Defaults
(d)           .  Any representation, warranty, certification or statement of fact made or deemed made by or on behalf of the Borrower or any other Loan Party herein, in any other Loan Document, or in any document delivered in connection herewith or therewith shall be incorrect or misleading when made or deemed made; or
Representations and Warranties
(e)           .  (i) Any Loan Party or any of its Subsidiaries (A) fails to make any payment when due (whether by scheduled maturity, required prepayment, acceleration, demand, or otherwise) in respect of any Indebtedness or Guarantee (other than Indebtedness hereunder and Indebtedness under Swap Contracts) having an aggregate principal amount (including undrawn committed or available amounts and including amounts owing to all creditors under any combined or syndicated credit arrangement) of more than the Threshold Amount, or (B) fails to observe or perform any other agreement or condition relating to any such Indebtedness or Guarantee or contained in any instrument or agreement evidencing, securing or relating thereto, or any other event occurs, the effect of which default or other event is to cause, or to permit the holder or holders of such Indebtedness or the beneficiary or beneficiaries of such Guarantee (or a trustee or agent on behalf of such holder or holders or beneficiary or beneficiaries) to cause, with the giving of notice if required, such Indebtedness to be demanded or to become due or to be repurchased, prepaid, defeased or redeemed (automatically or otherwise), or an offer to repurchase, prepay, defease or redeem such Indebtedness to be made, prior to its stated maturity, or such Guarantee to become payable or cash collateral in respect thereof to be
Cross-Default
49
demanded; or (ii) there occurs under any Swap Contract an Early Termination Date (as defined in such Swap Contract) resulting from (A) any event of default under such Swap Contract as to which the Borrower or any Subsidiary is the Defaulting Party (as defined in such Swap Contract) or (B) any Termination Event (as so defined) under such Swap Contract as to which the Borrower or any Subsidiary is an Affected Party (as so defined) and, in either event, the Swap Termination Value owed by such Loan Party or such Subsidiary as a result thereof is greater than the Threshold Amount; or
(f)            .  Any Loan Party or any of its Subsidiaries institutes or consents to the institution of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law, or makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors; or applies for or consents to the appointment of any receiver, trustee, custodian, conservator, liquidator, rehabilitator or similar officer for it or for all or any material part of its property; or any receiver, trustee, custodian, conservator, liquidator, rehabilitator or similar officer is appointed without the application or consent of such Person and the appointment continues undischarged or unstayed for 60 calendar days; or any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law relating to any such Person or to all or any material part of its property is instituted without the consent of such Person and continues undismissed or unstayed for 60 calendar days, or an order for relief is entered in any such proceeding; or
Insolvency Proceedings, Etc
(g)           .  (i) Any Loan Party or any of its Subsidiaries becomes unable or admits in writing its inability or fails generally to pay its debts as they become due, or (ii) any writ or warrant of attachment or execution or similar process is issued or levied against all or any material part of the property of any such Person and is not released, vacated or fully bonded within 30 days after its issue or levy; or
Inability to Pay Debts; Attachment
(h)           .  There is entered against any Loan Party or any of its Subsidiaries (i) a final judgment or order for the payment of money in an aggregate amount exceeding the Threshold Amount (to the extent not covered by independent third-party insurance as to which the insurer does not dispute coverage), or (ii) any one or more non-monetary final judgments that have, or could reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect and, in either case, (A) enforcement proceedings are commenced by any creditor upon such judgment or order, or (B) there is a period of 10 consecutive days during which a stay of enforcement of such judgment, by reason of a pending appeal or otherwise, is not in effect; or
Judgments
(i)            .  (i) An ERISA Event occurs with respect to a Pension Plan or Multiemployer Plan which has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in liability of the Borrower under Title IV of ERISA to the Pension Plan, Multiemployer Plan or the PBGC in an aggregate amount in excess of the Threshold Amount, or (ii) the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate fails to pay when due, after the expiration of any applicable grace period, any installment payment with respect to its withdrawal liability under Section 4201 of ERISA under a Multiemployer Plan in an aggregate amount in excess of the Threshold Amount; or
ERISA
(j)            .  Any provision of any Loan Document, at any time after its execution and delivery and for any reason other than as expressly permitted hereunder or thereunder or satisfaction in full of all the Obligations, ceases to be in full force and effect; or the Borrower or any other Person contests in any manner the validity or enforceability of any provision of any Loan Document; or any Loan Party denies that it has any or further liability or obligation under any Loan Document, or purports to revoke, terminate or rescind any provision of any Loan Document; or
Invalidity of Loan Documents
(k)           .  There occurs any Change of Control.
Change of Control
50
8.02        .
Remedies Upon Event of Default
If any Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Administrative Agent shall, at the request of, or may, with the consent of, the Requisite Lenders, take any or all of the following actions:
(a)           declare the commitment of each Lender to make Loans to be terminated, whereupon such commitments and obligation shall be terminated;
(b)           declare the unpaid principal amount of all outstanding Loans, all interest accrued and unpaid thereon, and all other amounts owing or payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document to be immediately due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrower; and
(c)           exercise on behalf of itself and the Lenders all rights and remedies available to it and the Lenders under the Loan Documents;
provided
, , that upon the occurrence of an Event of Default pursuant to or or the occurrence of an actual or deemed entry of an order for relief with respect to the Borrower under the Bankruptcy Code of the United States, the obligation of each Lender to make Loans shall automatically terminate, the unpaid principal amount of all outstanding Loans and all interest and other amounts as aforesaid shall automatically become due and payable without further act of the Administrative Agent or any Lender.
however
Sections 8.01(f)
(g)
8.03        .
Application of Funds
After the exercise of remedies provided for in (or after the Loans have automatically become immediately due and payable as set forth in the proviso to ), any amounts received on account of the Obligations shall be applied by the Administrative Agent in the following order:
Section 8.02
Section 8.02
First
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting fees, indemnities, expenses and other amounts (including fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the Administrative Agent and amounts payable under ) payable to the Administrative Agent in its capacity as such;
Article III
Second
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting fees, indemnities and other amounts (other than principal and interest) payable to the Lenders (including fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the respective Lenders and amounts payable under ), ratably among them in proportion to the amounts described in this clause payable to them;
Article III
Second
Third
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting accrued and unpaid interest on the Loans and other Obligations, ratably among the Lenders in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause payable to them;
Third
Fourth
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting unpaid principal of the Loans, ratably among the Lenders in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause held by them; and
Fourth
Last
, the balance, if any, after all of the Obligations have been indefeasibly paid in full, to the Borrower or as otherwise required by Law.
51
9.01        .
Appointment and Authority
Each of the Lenders hereby irrevocably appoints Bank of America to act on its behalf as the Administrative Agent hereunder and under the other Loan Documents and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms hereof or thereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto.  The provisions of this Article are solely for the benefit of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, and the Borrower shall not have rights as a third party beneficiary of any of such provisions.
9.02        .
Rights as a Lender
The Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Administrative Agent and the term "Lender" or "Lenders" shall, unless otherwise expressly indicated or unless the context otherwise requires, include the Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder in its individual capacity.  Such Person and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to, act as the financial advisor or in any other advisory capacity for and generally engage in any kind of business with the Borrower or any Subsidiary or other Affiliate thereof as if such Person were not the Administrative Agent hereunder and without any duty to account therefor to the Lenders.
9.03        .
Exculpatory Provisions
The Administrative Agent shall not have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Administrative Agent:
(a)           shall not be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties, regardless of whether a Default has occurred and is continuing;
(b)           shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, except discretionary rights and powers expressly contemplated hereby or by the other Loan Documents that the Administrative Agent is required to exercise as directed in writing by the Requisite Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be expressly provided for herein or in the other Loan Documents), that the Administrative Agent shall not be required to take any action that, in its opinion or the opinion of its counsel, may expose the Administrative Agent to liability or that is contrary to any Loan Document or applicable law; and
provided
(c)           shall not, except as expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents, have any duty to disclose, and shall not be liable for the failure to disclose, any information relating to the Borrower or any of its Affiliates that is communicated to or obtained by the Person serving as the Administrative Agent or any of its Affiliates in any capacity.
The Administrative Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it (i) with the consent or at the request of the Requisite Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary, or as the Administrative Agent shall believe in good faith shall be necessary, under the
52
circumstances as provided in and ) or (ii) in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct.  The Administrative Agent shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Default unless and until notice describing such Default is given to the Administrative Agent by the Borrower or a Lender.
Sections 10.01
8.02
The Administrative Agent shall not be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty or representation made in or in connection with this Agreement or any other Loan Document, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered hereunder or thereunder or in connection herewith or therewith, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth herein or therein or the occurrence of any Default, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any other agreement, instrument or document or (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in or elsewhere herein, other than to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent.
Article IV
9.04        .
Reliance by Administrative Agent
The Administrative Agent shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing (including any electronic message, Internet or intranet website posting or other distribution) believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed, sent or otherwise authenticated by the proper Person.  The Administrative Agent also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to have been made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon.  In determining compliance with any condition hereunder to the making of a Loan that by its terms must be fulfilled to the satisfaction of a Lender, the Administrative Agent may presume that such condition is satisfactory to such Lender unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice to the contrary from such Lender prior to the making of such Loan.  The Administrative Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for the Borrower), independent accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts.
9.05        .
Delegation of Duties
The Administrative Agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers hereunder or under any other Loan Document by or through any one or more sub-agents appointed by the Administrative Agent.  The Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through their respective Related Parties.  The exculpatory provisions of this Article shall apply to any such sub-agent and to the Related Parties of the Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent, and shall apply to their respective activities in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein as well as activities as Administrative Agent.
9.06        .
Resignation of Administrative Agent
The Administrative Agent may at any time give notice of its resignation to the Lenders and the Borrower.  Upon receipt of any such notice of resignation, the Requisite Lenders shall have the right, in consultation with the Borrower, to appoint a successor, which shall be a bank with an office in the United States, or an Affiliate of any such bank with an office in the United States.  If no such successor shall have been so appointed by the Requisite Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Administrative Agent gives notice of its resignation, then the retiring Administrative Agent may on behalf of the Lenders, appoint a successor Administrative Agent meeting
53
the qualifications set forth above; that if the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders that no qualifying Person has accepted such appointment, then such resignation shall nonetheless become effective in accordance with such notice and (1) the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder and under the other Loan Documents and (2) all payments, communications and determinations provided to be made by, to or through the Administrative Agent shall instead be made by or to each Lender directly, until such time as the Requisite Lenders appoint a successor Administrative Agent as provided for above in this Section.  Upon the acceptance of a successor's appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring (or retired) Administrative Agent, and the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from all of its duties and obligations hereunder or under the other Loan Documents (if not already discharged therefrom as provided above in this Section).  The fees payable by the Borrower to a successor Administrative Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and such successor.  After the retiring Administrative Agent's resignation hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, the provisions of this Article and shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring Administrative Agent, its sub-agents and their respective Related Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while the retiring Administrative Agent was acting as Administrative Agent.
provided
Section 10.04
9.07        .
Non-Reliance on Administrative Agent and Other Lenders
Each Lender acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement.  Each Lender also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any related agreement or any document furnished hereunder or thereunder.
9.08        .
No Other Duties, Etc
Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, none of the Arrangers, Bookrunners, Syndication Agent or Documentation Agents listed on the cover page hereof shall have any powers, duties or responsibilities under this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents, except in its capacity, as applicable, as the Administrative Agent or a Lender hereunder.
9.09        .
Administrative Agent May File Proofs of Claim
In case of the pendency of any receivership, insolvency, liquidation, bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, composition or other judicial proceeding relative to the Borrower, the Administrative Agent (irrespective of whether the principal of any Loan shall then be due and payable as herein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Administrative Agent shall have made any demand on the Borrower) shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise:
(a)           to file and prove a claim for the whole amount of the principal and interest owing and unpaid in respect of the Loans and all other Obligations that are owing and unpaid and to file such other documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Lenders and the Administrative Agent (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Lenders and the Administrative Agent and their respective agents and counsel and all other amounts due the Lenders  and the Administrative Agent under and ) allowed in such judicial proceeding; and
Sections 2.10
10.04
54
(b)           to collect and receive any monies or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same;
and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Lender to make such payments to the Administrative Agent and, in the event that the Administrative Agent shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Lenders, to pay to the Administrative Agent any amount due for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Administrative Agent and its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Administrative Agent under and .
Sections 2.10
10.04
Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to authorize the Administrative Agent to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Lender any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Obligations or the rights of any Lender or to authorize the Administrative Agent to vote in respect of the claim of any Lender in any such proceeding.
10.01      .
Amendments, Etc
No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or any other Loan Document, and no consent to any departure by the Borrower therefrom, shall be effective unless in writing signed by the Requisite Lenders and the Borrower, and acknowledged by the Administrative Agent, and each such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which given; , , that no such amendment, waiver or consent shall:
provided
however
(a)           extend or increase the Commitment of any Lender (or reinstate any Commitment terminated pursuant to ) without the written consent of such Lender;
Section 8.02
(b)           postpone any date fixed by this Agreement or any other Loan Document for any payment or mandatory prepayment of principal, interest, fees or other amounts due to the Lenders (or any of them) hereunder or under any other Loan Document without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby;
(c)           reduce the principal of, or the rate of interest specified herein on, any Loan, or (subject to clause (iv) of the second proviso to this ) any fees or other amounts payable hereunder (including pursuant to ) or under any other Loan Document without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby; , , that only the consent of the Requisite Lenders shall be necessary to amend the definition of "Default Rate" or to waive any obligation of the Borrower to pay interest at the Default Rate;
Section 10.01
Section 2.06
provided
however
(d)           change or in a manner that would alter the pro rata sharing of payments required thereby without the written consent of each Lender;
Section 2.14
Section 8.03
(e)           change any provision of this Section or the definition of "Requisite Lenders" or any other provision hereof specifying the number or percentage of Lenders required to amend, waive or otherwise modify any rights hereunder or make any determination or grant any consent hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender; or
55
(f)            release all or substantially all of the Guarantors from their Guarantee without the written consent of each Lender;
and , , that (i) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Administrative Agent in addition to the Lenders required above, affect the rights or duties of the Administrative Agent under this Agreement or any other Loan Document and (ii) the Fee Letter may be amended, or rights or privileges thereunder waived, in a writing executed only by the parties thereto.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, no Defaulting Lender shall have any right to approve or disapprove any amendment, waiver or consent hereunder, except that the Commitment of such Lender may not be increased or extended without the consent of such Lender.
provided
further
Notwithstanding the fact that the consent of all the Lenders is required in certain circumstances as set forth above, (x) each Lender is entitled to vote as such Lender sees fit on any reorganization plan that affects the Loans and each Lender acknowledges that the provisions of Section 1126(c) of the Bankruptcy Code supersede the unanimous consent provisions set forth herein and (y) the Requisite Lenders may consent to allow the Borrower to use cash collateral in the context of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding.
10.02      .
Notices; Effectiveness; Electronic Communication
(a)           .  Except in the case of notices and other communications expressly permitted to be given by telephone (and except as provided in subsection (b) below), all notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by telecopier as follows, and all notices and other communications expressly permitted hereunder to be given by telephone shall be made to the applicable telephone number, as follows:
Notices Generally
(i)      if to the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, to the address, telecopier number, electronic mail address or telephone number specified for such Person on ; and
Schedule 10.02
(ii)     if to any other Lender, to the address, telecopier number, electronic mail address or telephone number specified in its Administrative Questionnaire.
Notices sent by hand or overnight courier service, or mailed by certified or registered mail, shall be deemed to have been given when received; notices sent by telecopier shall be deemed to have been given when sent (except that, if not given during normal business hours for the recipient, shall be deemed to have been given at the opening of business on the next business day for the recipient).  Notices delivered through electronic communications to the extent provided in subsection (b) below, shall be effective as provided in such subsection (b).
(b)           .  Notices and other communications to the Lenders hereunder may be delivered or furnished by electronic communication (including e-mail and Internet or intranet websites) pursuant to procedures approved by the Administrative Agent, that the foregoing shall not apply to notices to any Lender if such Lender has notified the Administrative Agent that it is incapable of receiving notices under such Article by electronic communication.  The Administrative Agent or the Borrower may, in its discretion, agree to accept notices and other communications to it hereunder by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by it, that approval of such procedures may be limited to particular notices or communications.
Electronic Communications
provided
provided
56
Unless the Administrative Agent otherwise prescribes, (i) notices and other communications sent to an e-mail address shall be deemed received upon the sender's receipt of an acknowledgement from the intended recipient (such as by the "return receipt requested" function, as available, return e-mail or other written acknowledgement), that if such notice or other communication is not sent during the normal business hours of the recipient, such notice or communication shall be deemed to have been sent at the opening of business on the next business day for the recipient, and (ii) notices or communications posted to an Internet or intranet website shall be deemed received upon the deemed receipt by the intended recipient at its e-mail address as described in the foregoing clause (i) of notification that such notice or communication is available and identifying the website address therefor.
provided
(c)           .  Each of the Borrower and the Administrative Agent may change its address, telecopier or telephone number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto.  Each other Lender may change its address, telecopier or telephone number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
Change of Address, Etc
(d)           .  The Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall be entitled to rely and act upon any notices (including telephonic Bridge Loan Notices) purportedly given by or on behalf of the Borrower even if (i) such notices were not made in a manner specified herein, were incomplete or were not preceded or followed by any other form of notice specified herein, or (ii) the terms thereof, as understood by the recipient, varied from any confirmation thereof.  The Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent, each Lender and the Related Parties of each of them from all losses, costs, expenses and liabilities resulting from the reliance by such Person on each notice purportedly given by or on behalf of the Borrower.  All telephonic notices to and other telephonic communications with the Administrative Agent may be recorded by the Administrative Agent, and each of the parties hereto hereby consents to such recording.
Reliance by Administrative Agent and Lenders
10.03      .
No Waiver; Cumulative Remedies
No failure by any Lender or the Administrative Agent to exercise, and no delay by any such Person in exercising, any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, remedy, power or privilege.  The rights, remedies, powers and privileges herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any rights, remedies, powers and privileges provided by law.
10.04      .
Expenses; Indemnity; Damage Waiver
(a)           .  The Borrower shall pay (i) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Agents and their Affiliates (including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel for the Administrative Agent), in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein, due diligence, the preparation, negotiation, execution, delivery and administration of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents or any amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions hereof or thereof (whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby shall be consummated) and (ii) all out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent or any Lender (including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for the Administrative Agent or any Lender), in connection with the enforcement or protection of its rights (A) in connection with this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, including its rights under this Section, or (B) in connection with the Loans made hereunder, including all such out-of-pocket expenses incurred during any workout, restructuring or negotiations in respect of such Loans.
Costs and Expenses
57
(b)           .  The Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent (and any sub-agent thereof), each Lender, the Agents and their Affiliates and each Related Party of any of the foregoing Persons (each such Person being called an "") against, and hold each Indemnitee harmless from, any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and related expenses (including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for any Indemnitee), incurred by any Indemnitee or asserted against any Indemnitee by any third party or by the Borrower arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of (i) the execution or delivery of this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby or thereby, the performance by the parties hereto of their respective obligations hereunder or thereunder or the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, (ii) any actual or alleged presence or release of Hazardous Materials on or from any property owned or operated by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or any Environmental Liability related in any way to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or (iii) any actual or prospective claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, whether based on contract, tort or any other theory, whether brought by a third party or by the Borrower, and regardless of whether any Indemnitee is a party thereto; that such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses (x) are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee or (y) result from a claim brought by the Borrower against an Indemnitee for breach in bad faith of such Indemnitee's obligations hereunder or under any other Loan Document, if the Borrower has obtained a final and nonappealable judgment in its favor on such claim as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction.
Indemnification by the Borrower
Indemnitee
provided
(c)           .  To the extent that the Borrower for any reason fails to indefeasibly pay any amount required under subsection (a) or (b) of this Section to be paid by it to the Administrative Agent (or any sub-agent thereof) or any Related Party of any of the foregoing and without relieving the Borrower of its obligations with respect thereto, each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent) or such Related Party, as the case may be, such Lender's Applicable Percentage (determined as of the time that the applicable unreimbursed expense or indemnity payment is sought) of such unpaid amount, that the unreimbursed expense or indemnified loss, claim, damage, liability or related expense, as the case may be, was incurred by or asserted against the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent), or against any Related Party of any of the foregoing acting for the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent) in connection with such capacity.  The obligations of the Lenders under this subsection (c) are subject to the provisions of .
Reimbursement by Lenders
provided
Section 2.13(d)
(d)           .  To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Borrower shall not assert, and hereby waives, any claim against any Indemnitee, on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages) arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of, this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, any Loan or the use of the proceeds thereof.  No Indemnitee referred to in subsection (b) above shall be liable for any damages arising from the use by unintended recipients of any information or other materials distributed by it through telecommunications, electronic or other information transmission systems in connection with this Agreement or the other Loan Documents or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby.
Waiver of Consequential Damages, Etc
(e)           .  All amounts due under this Section shall be payable not later than ten Business Days after demand therefor.
Payments
(f)            .  The agreements in this Section shall survive the resignation of the Administrative Agent, the replacement of any Lender, the termination of the Commitments and the repayment, satisfaction or discharge of all the other Obligations.
Survival
58
10.05      .
Payments Set Aside
To the extent that any payment by or on behalf of the Borrower is made to the Administrative Agent or any Lender, or the Administrative Agent or any Lender exercises its right of setoff, and such payment or the proceeds of such setoff or any part thereof is subsequently invalidated, declared to be fraudulent or preferential, set aside or required (including pursuant to any settlement entered into by the Administrative Agent or such Lender in its discretion) to be repaid to a trustee, receiver or any other party, in connection with any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law or otherwise, then (a) to the extent of such recovery, the obligation or part thereof originally intended to be satisfied shall be revived and continued in full force and effect as if such payment had not been made or such setoff had not occurred, and (b) each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent upon demand its applicable share (without duplication) of any amount so recovered from or repaid by the Administrative Agent, plus interest thereon from the date of such demand to the date such payment is made at a rate per annum equal to the Federal Funds Rate from time to time in effect.  The obligations of the Lenders under clause (b) of the preceding sentence shall survive the payment in full of the Obligations and the termination of this Agreement.
10.06      .
Successors and Assigns
assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent and each Lender and no Lender may assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder except (i) to an assignee in accordance with the provisions of subsection (b) of this Section, (ii) by way of participation in accordance with the provisions of subsection (d) of this Section, (iii) by way of pledge or assignment of a security interest subject to the restrictions of subsection (f) of this Section, or (iv) to an SPC in accordance with the provisions of subsection (h) of this Section (and any other attempted assignment or transfer by any party hereto shall be null and void).  Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, shall be construed to confer upon any Person (other than the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, Participants to the extent provided in subsection (d) of this Section and, to the extent expressly contemplated hereby, the Related Parties of each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement.
(a)           .  The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, except that neither the Borrower nor any other Loan Party may
Successors and Assigns Generally
(b)           .  Any Lender may at any time assign to one or more assignees all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans at the time owing to it); that any such assignment shall be subject to the following conditions:
Assignments by Lenders
provided
(i)      .
Minimum Amounts
(A)          in the case of an assignment of the entire remaining amount of the assigning Lender's Commitment and the Loans at the time owing to it or in the case of an assignment to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund, no minimum amount need be assigned; and
(B)           in any case not described in subsection (b)(i)(A) of this Section, the aggregate amount of the Commitment (which for this purpose includes Loans outstanding thereunder) or, if the Commitment is not then in effect, the principal outstanding balance of the Loans of the assigning Lender subject to each such assignment, determined as of
59
the date the Assignment and Assumption with respect to such assignment is delivered to the Administrative Agent or, if "Trade Date" is specified in the Assignment and Assumption, as of the Trade Date, shall not be less than $2,500,000 unless each of the Administrative Agent and, so long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Borrower otherwise consents (each such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed); , , that concurrent assignments to members of an Assignee Group and concurrent assignments from members of an Assignee Group to a single assignee (or to an assignee and members of its Assignee Group) will be treated as a single assignment for purposes of determining whether such minimum amount has been met.
provided
however
(ii)     .  Each partial assignment shall be made as an assignment of a proportionate part of all the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement with respect to the Loans or the Commitment assigned;
Proportionate Amounts
(iii)    .  No consent shall be required for any assignment except to the extent required by subsection (b)(i)(B) of this Section and, in addition:
Required Consents
(A)          the consent of the Borrower (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required unless (1) an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing at the time of such assignment or (2) such assignment is to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund; and
(B)           the consent of the Administrative Agent (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required if such assignment is to a Person that is not a Lender, an Affiliate of such Lender or an Approved Fund with respect to such Lender.
(iv)    .  The parties to each assignment shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent an Assignment and Assumption, together with a processing and recordation fee in the amount of $3,500; , , that the Administrative Agent may, in its sole discretion, elect to waive such processing and recordation fee in the case of any assignment.  The assignee, if it is not a Lender, shall deliver to the Administrative Agent an Administrative Questionnaire.
Assignment and Assumption
provided
however
(v)     .  No such assignment shall be made to the Borrower or any of the Borrower's Affiliates or Subsidiaries.
No Assignment to the Borrower
(vi)    .  No such assignment shall be made to a natural person.
No Assignment to Natural Persons
Subject to acceptance and recording thereof by the Administrative Agent pursuant to subsection (c) of this Section, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Assumption, the Eligible Assignee thereunder shall be a party to this Agreement and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement, and the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Assumption covering all of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto) but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of , , , and with respect to facts and circumstances occurring prior to the effective date of such assignment.  Upon request, the Borrower (at its expense) shall execute and deliver a Note to the assignee Lender.  Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this subsection shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with subsection (d) of this Section.
Sections 3.01
3.04
3.05
10.04
60
(c)           .  The Administrative Agent, acting solely for this purpose as an agent of the Borrower, shall maintain at the Administrative Agent's Office a copy of each Assignment and Assumption delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Commitments of, and principal amounts of the Loans owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the "").  The entries in the Register shall be conclusive, and the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the contrary.  The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrower and any Lender (with respect to its own interest only), at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
Register
Register
(d)           .  Any Lender may at any time, without the consent of, or notice to, the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, sell participations to any Person (other than a natural person or the Borrower or any of the Borrower's Affiliates or Subsidiaries) (each, a "") in all or a portion of such Lender's rights and/or obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and/or the Loans owing to it; that (i) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (ii) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations and (iii) the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement.
Participations
Participant
provided
Any agreement or instrument pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce this Agreement and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any  provision of this Agreement; that such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, waiver or other modification described in the first proviso to that affects such Participant.  Subject to subsection (e) of this Section, the Borrower agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of , and to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to subsection (b) of this Section.  To the extent permitted by law, each Participant also shall be entitled to the benefits of as though it were a Lender, such Participant agrees to be subject to as though it were a Lender.
provided
Section 10.01
Sections 3.01
3.04
3.05
Section 10.08
provided
Section 2.13
(e)           .  A Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under or than the applicable Lender would have been entitled to receive with respect to the participation sold to such Participant, unless the sale of the participation to such Participant is made with the Borrower's prior written consent.  A Participant that would be a Foreign Lender if it were a Lender shall not be entitled to the benefits of unless the Borrower is notified of the participation sold to such Participant and such Participant agrees, for the benefit of the Borrower, to comply with as though it were a Lender.
Limitations upon Participant Rights
Section 3.01
3.04
Section 3.01
Section 3.01(e)
(f)            .  Any Lender may at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement (including under its Note, if any) to secure obligations of such Lender, including any pledge or assignment to secure obligations to a Federal Reserve Bank; that no such pledge or assignment shall release such Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or assignee for such Lender as a party hereto.
Certain Pledges
provided
61
(g)           .  The words "execution," "signed," "signature," and words of like import in any Assignment and Assumption shall be deemed to include electronic signatures or the keeping of records in electronic form, each of which shall be of the same legal effect, validity or enforceability as a manually executed signature or the use of a paper-based recordkeeping system, as the case may be, to the extent and as provided for in any applicable law, including the Federal Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act, the New York State Electronic Signatures and Records Act, or any other similar state laws based on the Uniform Electronic Transactions Act.
Electronic Execution of Assignments
(h)           .  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, any Lender (a "") may grant to a special purpose funding vehicle identified as such in writing from time to time by the Granting Lender to the Administrative Agent and the Borrower (an "") the option to provide all or any part of any Loan that such Granting Lender would otherwise be obligated to make pursuant to this Agreement; that (i) nothing herein shall constitute a commitment by any SPC to fund any Loan, and (ii) if an SPC elects not to exercise such option or otherwise fails to make all or any part of such Loan, the Granting Lender shall be obligated to make such Loan pursuant to the terms hereof or, if it fails to do so, to make such payment to the Administrative Agent as is required under .  Each party hereto hereby agrees that (i) neither the grant to any SPC nor the exercise by any SPC of such option shall increase the costs or expenses or otherwise increase or change the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement (including its obligations under ), (ii) no SPC shall be liable for any indemnity or similar payment obligation under this Agreement for which a Lender would be liable, and (iii) the Granting Lender shall for all purposes, including the approval of any amendment, waiver or other modification of any provision of any Loan Document, remain the lender of record hereunder.  The making of a Loan by an SPC hereunder shall utilize the Commitment of the Granting Lender to the same extent, and as if, such Loan were made by such Granting Lender.  In furtherance of the foregoing, each party hereto hereby agrees (which agreement shall survive the termination of this Agreement) that, prior to the date that is one year and one day after the payment in full of all outstanding commercial paper or other senior debt of any SPC, it will not institute against, or join any other Person in instituting against, such SPC any bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, insolvency, or liquidation proceeding under the laws of the United States or any State thereof.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, any SPC may (i) with notice to, but without prior consent of the Borrower and the Administrative Agent and with the payment of a processing fee in the amount of $3,500 (which processing fee may be waived by the Administrative Agent in its sole discretion), assign all or any portion of its right to receive payment with respect to any Loan to the Granting Lender and (ii) disclose on a confidential basis any non-public information relating to its funding of Loans to any rating agency, commercial paper dealer or provider of any surety or Guarantee or credit or liquidity enhancement to such SPC.
Special Purpose Funding Vehicles
Granting Lender
SPC
provided
Section 2.13(b)(ii)
Section 3.04
(i)            ].
[Intentionally Omitted
10.07      .
Treatment of Certain Information; Confidentiality
Each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (a) to its Affiliates and to its and its Affiliates' respective partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, advisors and representatives (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential), (b) to the extent requested by any regulatory authority purporting to have jurisdiction over it (including any self-regulatory authority, such as the National Association of Insurance Commissioners), (c) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process, (d) to any other party hereto, (e) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or under any other Loan Document or any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or any other Loan Document or the enforcement of rights hereunder or thereunder, (f) subject to an agreement containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section, to (i) any assignee of or Participant in, or any prospective
62
assignee of or Participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement or (ii) any actual or prospective counterparty (or its advisors) to any swap or derivative transaction relating to the Borrower and its obligations, (g) with the consent of the Borrower, (h) to the extent such Information (x) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section or (y) becomes available to the Administrative Agent, any Lender, or any of their respective Affiliates on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than the Borrower that the Administrative Agent, any such Lender reasonably believes is not bound by a duty of confidentiality to the Borrower
or (i) as reasonably required by any Lender or other Person providing financing to such Lender ( such Lenders or other Persons are advised of the confidential nature of such information and agree to keep such information confidential).
provided
For purposes of this Section, "" means all information received from the Borrower or any Subsidiary relating to the Borrower or any Subsidiary or any of their respective businesses, other than any such information that is available to the Administrative Agent or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure by the Borrower or any Subsidiary, that, in the case of information received from the Borrower or any Subsidiary after the date hereof, such information is clearly identified at the time of delivery as confidential.  Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information.
Information
provided
10.08      .
Right of Setoff
If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, each Lender and each of their respective Affiliates is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final, in whatever currency) at any time held and other obligations (in whatever currency) at any time owing by such Lender or any such Affiliate to or for the credit or the account of the Borrower against any and all of the obligations of the Borrower now or hereafter existing under this Agreement or any other Loan Document to such Lender, irrespective of whether or not such Lender shall have made any demand under this Agreement or any other Loan Document and although such obligations of the Borrower may be contingent or unmatured or are owed to a branch or office of such Lender different from the branch or office holding such deposit or obligated on such indebtedness.  The rights of each Lender and their respective Affiliates under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of setoff) that such Lender or their respective Affiliates may have.  Each Lender agrees to notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent promptly after any such setoff and application, that the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such setoff and application.
provided
10.09      .
Interest Rate Limitation
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any Loan Document, the interest paid or agreed to be paid under the Loan Documents shall not exceed the maximum rate of non-usurious interest permitted by applicable Law (the "").  If the Administrative Agent or any Lender shall receive interest in an amount that exceeds the Maximum Rate, the excess interest shall be applied to the principal of the Loans or, if it exceeds such unpaid principal, refunded to the Borrower.  In determining whether the interest contracted for, charged, or received by the Administrative Agent or a Lender exceeds the Maximum Rate, such Person may, to the extent permitted by applicable Law, (a) characterize any payment that is not principal as an expense, fee, or premium rather than interest, (b) exclude voluntary prepayments and the effects thereof, and (c) amortize, prorate, allocate, and spread in equal or unequal parts the total amount of interest throughout the contemplated term of the Obligations hereunder.
Maximum Rate
63
10.10      .
Counterparts; Integration; Effectiveness
This Agreement may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto in different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract.  This Agreement and the other Loan Documents constitute the entire contract among the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersede any and all previous agreements and understandings, oral or written, relating to the subject matter hereof.  Except as provided in , this Agreement shall become effective when it shall have been executed by the Administrative Agent and when the Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts hereof that, when taken together, bear the signatures of each of the other parties hereto.  Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Agreement by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement.
Section 4.01
10.11      .
Survival of Representations and Warranties
All representations and warranties made hereunder and in any other Loan Document or other document delivered pursuant hereto or thereto or in connection herewith or therewith shall survive the execution and delivery hereof and thereof.  Such representations and warranties have been or will be relied upon by the Administrative Agent and each Lender, regardless of any investigation made by the Administrative Agent or any Lender or on their behalf and notwithstanding that the Administrative Agent or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of any Default at the time of any Credit Extension, and shall continue in full force and effect as long as any Loan or any other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied.
10.12      .
Severability
If any provision of this Agreement or the other Loan Documents is held to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable, (a) the legality, validity and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall not be affected or impaired thereby and (b) the parties shall endeavor in good faith negotiations to replace the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions with valid provisions the economic effect of which comes as close as possible to that of the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions.  The invalidity of a provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.
10.13      .
Replacement of Lenders
If any Lender requests compensation under , or if the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to , if any Lender is a Defaulting Lender, then the Borrower may, at its sole expense and effort, upon notice to such Lender and the Administrative Agent, require such Lender to assign and delegate, without recourse (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in, and consents required by, ), all of its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement and the related Loan Documents to an assignee that shall assume such obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment), that:
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
Section 10.06
provided
(a)           the Borrower shall have paid to the Administrative Agent the assignment fee specified in ;
Section 10.06(b)
(b)           such Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Loans, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder and under the other Loan Documents (including any amounts under ) from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or the Borrower (in the case of all other amounts);
Section 3.05
64
(c)           in the case of any such assignment resulting from a claim for compensation under or payments required to be made pursuant to , such assignment will result in a reduction in such compensation or payments thereafter; and
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
(d)           such assignment does not conflict with applicable Laws.
A Lender shall not be required to make any such assignment or delegation if, prior thereto, as a result of a waiver by such Lender or otherwise, the circumstances entitling the Borrower to require such assignment and delegation cease to apply.
10.14      .
Governing Law; Jurisdiction; Etc
(a)           .  THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO CONFLICTS OF LAWS PRINCIPLES THAT WOULD REQUIRE THE APPLICATION OF THE LAWS OF ANOTHER JURISDICTION.
GOVERNING LAW
(b)           .  EACH LOAN PARTY IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY SUBMITS, FOR ITSELF AND ITS PROPERTY, TO THE NONEXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THE COURTS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SITTING IN NEW YORK COUNTY AND OF THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT OF THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK, AND ANY APPELLATE COURT FROM ANY THEREOF, IN ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT, OR FOR RECOGNITION OR ENFORCEMENT OF ANY JUDGMENT, AND EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY AGREES THAT ALL CLAIMS IN RESPECT OF ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING MAY BE HEARD AND DETERMINED IN SUCH NEW YORK STATE COURT OR, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, IN SUCH FEDERAL COURT.  EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO AGREES THAT A FINAL JUDGMENT IN ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING SHALL BE CONCLUSIVE AND MAY BE ENFORCED IN OTHER JURISDICTIONS BY SUIT ON THE JUDGMENT OR IN ANY OTHER MANNER PROVIDED BY LAW.  NOTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT OR IN ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT SHALL AFFECT ANY RIGHT THAT THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT OR ANY LENDER MAY OTHERWISE HAVE TO BRING ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT AGAINST THE BORROWER OR ITS PROPERTIES IN THE COURTS OF ANY JURISDICTION.
SUBMISSION TO JURISDICTION
(c)           .  EACH LOAN PARTY IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY OBJECTION THAT IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE TO THE LAYING OF VENUE OF ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT IN ANY COURT REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH (B) OF THIS SECTION.  EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, THE DEFENSE OF AN INCONVENIENT FORUM TO THE MAINTENANCE OF SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING IN ANY SUCH COURT.
WAIVER OF VENUE
65
(d)           .  EACH PARTY HERETO IRREVOCABLY CONSENTS TO SERVICE OF PROCESS IN THE MANNER PROVIDED FOR NOTICES IN .  NOTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT WILL AFFECT THE RIGHT OF ANY PARTY HERETO TO SERVE PROCESS IN ANY OTHER MANNER PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW.
SERVICE OF PROCESS
SECTION 10.02
10.15      .
Waiver of Jury Trial
EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY OR THEREBY (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER THEORY).  EACH PARTY HERETO (A) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PERSON HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PERSON WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO HAVE BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION.
10.16      .
No Advisory or Fiduciary Responsibility
In connection with all aspects of each transaction contemplated hereby, the Borrower and each other Loan Party acknowledges and agrees, and acknowledges its Affiliates' understanding, that: (i) the credit facilities provided for hereunder and any related arranging or other services in connection therewith (including in connection with any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof or of any other Loan Document) are an arm's-length commercial transaction between the Borrower, each other Loan Party and their respective Affiliates, on the one hand, and the Administrative Agent and each Arranger, on the other hand, and the Borrower and each other Loan Party is capable of evaluating and understanding and understands and accepts the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated hereby and by the other Loan Documents (including any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof or thereof); (ii) in connection with the process leading to such transaction, the Administrative Agent and each Arranger is and has been acting solely as a principal and is not the financial advisor, agent or fiduciary, for the Borrower, any other Loan Party or any of their respective Affiliates, stockholders, creditors or employees or any other Person; (iii) neither the Administrative Agent nor any Arranger has assumed or will assume an advisory, agency or fiduciary responsibility in favor of the Borrower or any other Loan Party with respect to any of the transactions contemplated hereby or the process leading thereto, including with respect to any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof or of any other Loan Document (irrespective of whether the Administrative Agent or any Arranger has advised or is currently advising the Borrower, any other Loan Party or any of their respective Affiliates on other matters) and neither the Administrative Agent nor any Arranger has any obligation to the Borrower, any other Loan Party or any of their respective Affiliates with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby except those obligations expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents; (iv) the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers and their respective Affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Borrower, the other Loan Parties and their respective Affiliates, and neither the Administrative Agent nor any Arranger has any obligation to disclose any of such interests by virtue of any advisory, agency or fiduciary relationship; and (v) the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers have not provided and will not provide any legal, accounting, regulatory or tax advice with respect to any of the transactions contemplated hereby (including any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof or of any other Loan Document) and each of the Borrower and the other Loan Parties has consulted its own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it has deemed appropriate.  Each of the Borrower and the other Loan Parties hereby waives and releases, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any claims that it may have against the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers with respect to any breach or alleged breach of agency or fiduciary duty.
66
10.17      .
USA Patriot Act Notice
Each Lender that is subject to the Patriot Act (as hereinafter defined) and the Administrative Agent (for itself and not on behalf of any Lender) hereby notifies the Borrower that pursuant to the requirements of the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the ""), it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Borrower, which information includes the name and address of the Borrower and other information that will allow such Lender or the Administrative Agent, as applicable, to identify the Borrower in accordance with the Patriot Act.
Patriot Act
10.18      .
Delivery of Signature Page
Each Lender to become a party to this Agreement on the date hereof shall do so by delivering to the Administrative Agent a counterpart of this Agreement duly executed by such Lender.
11.01      .
The Guaranty
Each of the Guarantors hereby jointly and severally guarantees to each Lender, each Affiliate of a Lender that enters into a Swap Contract or a Treasury Management Agreement, and the Administrative Agent as hereinafter provided, as primary obligor and not as surety, the prompt payment of the Obligations in full when due (whether at stated maturity, as a mandatory prepayment, by acceleration, as a mandatory cash collateralization or otherwise) strictly in accordance with the terms thereof.  The Guarantors hereby further agree that if any of the Obligations are not paid in full when due (whether at stated maturity, as a mandatory prepayment, by acceleration as a mandatory cash collateralization or otherwise), the Guarantors will, jointly and severally, promptly pay the same, without any demand or notice whatsoever, and that in the case of any extension of time of payment or renewal of any of the Obligations, the same will be promptly paid in full when due (whether at extended maturity, as a mandatory prepayment, by acceleration, as a mandatory cash collateralization or otherwise) in accordance with the terms of such extension or renewal.
Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary herein or in any other of the Loan Documents or Swap Contracts or Treasury Management Agreements, the obligations of each Guarantor under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall be limited to an aggregate amount equal to the largest amount that would not render such obligations subject to avoidance under the Debtor Relief Laws or any comparable provisions of any applicable state law.
11.02      .
Obligations Unconditional
The obligations of the Guarantors under are joint and several, absolute and unconditional, irrespective of the value, genuineness, validity, regularity or enforceability of any of the Loan Documents, Swap Contracts or Treasury Management Agreements, or any other agreement or instrument referred to therein, or any substitution, release, impairment or exchange of any other guarantee of or security for any of the Obligations, and, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law,
Section 11.01
67
irrespective of any other circumstance whatsoever which might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of a surety or guarantor (other than the payment of the Obligations), it being the intent of this that the obligations of the Guarantors hereunder shall be absolute and unconditional under any and all circumstances (other than the payment of the Obligations).  Each Guarantor agrees that such Guarantor shall not exercise any right of subrogation, indemnity, reimbursement or contribution against the Borrower or any other Guarantor for amounts paid under this until such time as the Obligations have been fully satisfied.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, it is agreed that, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the occurrence of any one or more of the following shall not alter or impair the liability of any Guarantor hereunder which shall remain absolute and unconditional as described above:
Section 11.02
Article XI
(a)           at any time or from time to time, without notice to any Guarantor, the time for any performance of or compliance with any of the Obligations shall be extended, or such performance or compliance shall be waived;
(b)           any of the acts mentioned in any of the provisions of any of the Loan Documents, any Swap Contract or any Treasury Management Agreement between any Lender and any Affiliate of a Lender, or any other agreement or instrument referred to in the Loan Documents or such Swap Contracts shall be done or omitted;
(c)           the maturity of any of the Obligations shall be accelerated, or any of the Obligations shall be modified, supplemented or amended in any respect, or any right under any of the Loan Documents, any Swap Contract or any Treasury Management Agreement between any Lender and any Affiliate of a Lender, or any other agreement or instrument referred to in the Loan Documents or such Swap Contracts or such Treasury Management Agreements shall be waived or any other guarantee of any of the Obligations or any security therefor shall be released, impaired or exchanged in whole or in part or otherwise dealt with;
(d)           any Lien granted to, or in favor of, the Administrative Agent or any Lender or Lenders as security for any of the Obligations shall fail to attach or be perfected; or
(e)           any of the Obligations shall be determined to be void or voidable (including, without limitation, for the benefit of any creditor of any Guarantor) or shall be subordinated to the claims of any Person (including, without limitation, any creditor of any Guarantor).
With respect to its obligations hereunder, each Guarantor hereby expressly waives diligence, presentment, demand of payment, protest and all notices whatsoever, any law, regulation, decree or order of any jurisdiction or any event affecting any term of the Obligations and any requirement that the Administrative Agent or any Lender exhaust any right, power or remedy or proceed against any Person under any of the Loan Documents, any Swap Contract or any Treasury Management Agreement between any Consolidated Party and any Lender, or any Affiliate of a Lender, or any other agreement or instrument referred to in the Loan Documents or such Swap Contracts or such Treasury Management Agreements, or against any other Person under any other guarantee of, or security for, any of the Obligations.
11.03      .
Reinstatement
The obligations of the Guarantors under this shall be automatically reinstated if and to the extent that for any reason any payment by or on behalf of any Person in respect of the Obligations is rescinded or must be otherwise restored by any holder of any of the Obligations, whether as a result of any proceedings in bankruptcy or reorganization or otherwise, and each Guarantor agrees that it will
Article XI
68
indemnify the Administrative Agent and each Lender within 10 days of written demand (together with back up documentation supporting such reimbursement) for all reasonable costs and expenses (including, without limitation, reasonable fees and expenses of counsel) incurred by the Administrative Agent or such Lender in connection with such rescission or restoration, including any such costs and expenses incurred in defending against any claim alleging that such payment constituted a preference, fraudulent transfer or similar payment under any bankruptcy, insolvency or similar law.
11.04      .
Certain Additional Waivers
Each Guarantor agrees that such Guarantor shall have no right of recourse to security for the Obligations, except through the exercise of rights of subrogation pursuant to and through the exercise of rights of contribution pursuant to .
Section 11.02
Section 11.06
11.05      .
Remedies
The Guarantors agree that, to the fullest extent permitted by law, as between the Guarantors, on the one hand, and the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, on the other hand, the Obligations may be declared to be forthwith due and payable as provided in (and shall be deemed to have become automatically due and payable in the circumstances provided in said ) for purposes of notwithstanding any stay, injunction or other prohibition preventing such declaration (or preventing the Obligations from becoming automatically due and payable) as against any other Person and that, in the event of such declaration (or the Obligations being deemed to have become automatically due and payable), the Obligations (whether or not due and payable by any other Person) shall forthwith become due and payable by the Guarantors for purposes of .
Section 8.02
Section 8.02
Section 11.01
Section 11.01
11.06      .
Rights of Contribution
The Guarantors hereby agree as among themselves that, in connection with payments made hereunder, each Guarantor shall have a right of contribution from each other Guarantor in accordance with applicable Law.  Such contribution rights shall be subordinate and subject in right of payment to the Obligations until such time as the Obligations have been fully satisfied, and none of the Guarantors shall exercise any such contribution rights relating to payments made hereunder until the Obligations have been fully satisfied.
11.07      .
Guarantee of Payment; Continuing Guarantee
The guarantee in this is a guaranty of payment and not of collection, is a continuing guarantee, and shall apply to all Obligations whenever arising.
Article XI
69
Each of the parties hereto have caused a counterpart of this Agreement to be duly executed as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
 
Published CUSIP Number:          
$2,700,000,000
CREDIT AGREEMENT
Dated as of October 5, 2006
among
HEALTH CARE PROPERTY INVESTORS, INC.
, as Borrower
THE GUARANTORS PARTY HERETO FROM TIME TO TIME
,
THE LENDERS PARTY HERETO FROM TIME TO TIME
and
BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.
, as Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender and L/C Issuer,
and
BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES LLC
and , as Joint Lead Arrangers
UBS SECURITIES LLC
and
BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES LLC
,, and, as Joint Bookrunners
UBS SECURITIES LLC
J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES INC.
BARCLAYS CAPITAL
UBS SECURITIES LLC
,as Syndication Agent
JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A.
, , , , and , as Co-Documentation Agents
BARCLAYS BANK PLC
WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
GOLDMAN SACHS CREDIT PARTNERS L.P.
MERRILL LYNCH BANK USA
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS
 
 
i
 
 
ii
 
iii
CREDIT AGREEMENT
This CREDIT AGREEMENT, dated as of October 5, 2006 (as amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, this ""), among HEALTH CARE PROPERTY INVESTORS, INC., a Maryland corporation (the ""), the Subsidiary Guarantors party hereto from time to time (such term and each other capitalized term used but not defined herein having the meaning given to it in ), the lending institutions party hereto from time to time (each, a "" and collectively, the ""), BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender and L/C Issuer, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES LLC, as Joint Lead Arranger and Joint Bookrunner, UBS SECURITIES LLC, as Joint Lead Arranger, Joint Bookrunner and Syndication Agent, J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES INC., as Joint Bookrunner, BARCLAYS CAPITAL, as Joint Bookrunner, JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., as Co-Documentation Agent, BARCLAYS BANK PLC, as Co-Documentation Agent, WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Co-Documentation Agent, GOLDMAN SACHS CREDIT PARTNERS L.P., as Co-Documentation Agent, MERRILL LYNCH BANK USA, as Co-Documentation Agent, WELLS FARGO BANK, N.A., as Senior Managing Agent, CITICORP NORTH AMERICA, INC., as Senior Managing Agent, CREDIT SUISSE, CAYMAN ISLANDS BRANCH, as Senior Managing Agent, KEY BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Senior Managing Agent, SUNTRUST BANK, as Senior Managing Agent, THE BANK OF NOVA SCOTIA, as Senior Managing Agent, and THE ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND PLC, as Senior Managing Agent.
Agreement
Borrower
Article I
Lender
Lenders
WHEREAS, the Borrower has entered into an agreement and plan of merger (the ""), dated as of May 1, 2006, with CNL Retirement Properties, Inc., a Maryland corporation (""), and Ocean Acquisition 1, Inc., a Maryland corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of the Borrower (the ""), pursuant to which at the closing of the transactions contemplated by the CNL Merger Agreement, CNL shall merge with and into the CNL Merger Sub, and the CNL Merger Sub shall be the surviving entity, and the Borrower (or an affiliate of the Borrower) shall acquire all outstanding equity interests of CNL (the "").
CNL Merger Agreement
CNL
CNL Merger Sub
CNL Merger
WHEREAS, the Borrower has entered into an agreement and plan of merger (the ""), dated as of May 1, 2006, with CNL Retirement Corp., a Florida corporation (the ""), and Ocean Acquisition 2 LLC, a Florida limited liability company and a wholly owned subsidiary of the Borrower (the ""), pursuant to which at the closing of the transactions contemplated by the Advisor Merger Agreement, the Advisor shall merge with and into the Advisor Purchaser (the "") and the Advisor Purchaser shall be the surviving entity.
Advisor Merger Agreement
Advisor
Advisor Purchaser
Advisor Merger
WHEREAS, the Borrower has requested that the Lenders provide a revolving credit facility and a term loan facility, and the Lenders are willing to do so on the terms and conditions set forth herein.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements herein contained, the parties hereto covenant and agree as follows:
1.01        .
Defined Terms
As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
"" means CNL and the Advisor and their Subsidiaries.
Acquired Business
"" means, collectively, the CNL Merger Agreement and the Advisor Merger Agreement.
Acquisition Agreements
"" shall mean the collective reference to the CNL Merger Agreement, the Advisor Merger Agreement and each amendment or supplement thereto and each other agreement entered into in connection therewith relating to the Acquisitions.
Acquisition Documents
"" means, collectively, the CNL Merger and the Advisor Merger.
Acquisitions
"" means Bank of America in its capacity as administrative agent under any of the Loan Documents, or any successor administrative agent.
Administrative Agent
"" means the Administrative Agent's address and, as appropriate, account as set forth on , or such other address or account as the Administrative Agent may from time to time notify to the Borrower and the Lenders.
Administrative Agent's Office
Schedule 10.02
"" means an Administrative Questionnaire in a form supplied by the Administrative Agent.
Administrative Questionnaire
"" has the meaning specified in the second recital to this Agreement.
Advisor
"" has the meaning specified in the second recital to this Agreement.
Advisor Merger
"" has the meaning specified in the second recital to this Agreement.
Advisor Merger Agreement
"" has the meaning specified in the second recital to this Agreement.
Advisor Purchaser
"" means, with respect to any Person, another Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls or is Controlled by or is under common Control with the Person specified.
Affiliate
"" means the Administrative Agent, the Arrangers, the Bookrunners, the Syndication Agent, the Documentation Agents, the Senior Managing Agents, the Swing Line Lender and the L/C Issuer.
Agents
"" means the Aggregate Revolving Commitments and the Aggregate Term Commitments of all the Lenders.  The Aggregate Commitments on the Closing Date are $2,700,000,000, which may be increased pursuant to or decreased pursuant to .
Aggregate Commitments
Section 2.16
Section 2.07
"" means the Revolving Commitments of all Revolving Lenders, which as of the Closing Date are $1,000,000,000.
Aggregate Revolving Commitments
"" means the Term Commitments of all Term Lenders, which as of the Closing Date are $1,700,000,000.
Aggregate Term Commitments
"" means the Term Loans of all Term Lenders.
Aggregate Term Loans
"" means this Credit Agreement.
Agreement
2
"" means (a) with respect to Revolving Loans, L/C Obligations and Swing Line Loans, for each Revolving Lender at any time, a fraction (expressed as a percentage, carried out to the ninth decimal place), the numerator of which is the amount of such Revolving Lender's Revolving Commitment and the denominator of which is the amount of the Aggregate Revolving Commitments at such time; (b) with respect to Term Loans, for each Term Lender at any time, a fraction (expressed as a percentage, carried out to the ninth decimal place), the numerator of which is the amount of such Term Lender's Term Commitment at such time and the denominator of which is the amount of the Aggregate Term Commitments at such time; and (c) with respect to Negotiated Rate Loans, for each Lender at any time, a fraction (expressed as a percentage, carried out to the ninth decimal place), the numerator of which is the Outstanding Amount of such Negotiated Rate Loan held by such Lender at such time and the denominator of which is the aggregate Outstanding Amount of such Negotiated Rate Loan at such time.  The initial Applicable Percentages of each Revolving Lender and each Term Lender are set forth opposite the name of such Lender on or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender becomes a party hereto, as applicable.
Applicable Percentage
Schedule 2.01
"" means, for Revolving Loans and Term Loans, from time to time, the number of basis points per annum set forth in the following table based upon the Debt Rating as set forth below:
Applicable Rate
 
"" means, as of any date of determination, the rating as determined by either S&P or Moody's (collectively, the "") of the Borrower's non-credit enhanced, senior unsecured long-term debt; that if a Debt Rating is issued by each of the foregoing rating agencies, then the higher of such Debt Ratings shall apply (with the Debt Rating for Pricing Level 1 being the highest and the Debt Rating for Pricing Level 5 being the lowest), unless there is a split in Debt Ratings of more than one level, in which case the Pricing Level that is one level higher than the Pricing Level of the lower Debt Rating shall apply.
Debt Rating
Debt Ratings
provided
Initially, the Applicable Rate shall be determined based upon the Debt Rating specified in the certificate delivered pursuant to .  Thereafter, each change in the Applicable Rate shall occur on the first Business Day following the effective change in the Debt Rating.
Section 4.01(a)(vii)
"" means any Fund that is administered or managed by (a) a Lender, (b) an Affiliate of a Lender or (c) an entity or an Affiliate of an entity that administers or manages a Lender.
Approved Fund
"" means Banc of America Securities LLC and UBS Securities LLC, each in its capacity as joint lead arranger and joint bookrunner.
Arrangers
"" means two or more Eligible Assignees that are Affiliates of one another or two or more Approved Funds managed by the same investment advisor.
Assignee Group
3
"" means an assignment and assumption entered into by a Lender and an Eligible Assignee (with the consent of any party whose consent is required by , and accepted by the Administrative Agent, in substantially the form of or any other form approved by the Administrative Agent.
Assignment and Assumption
Section 10.06(b))
Exhibit G
"" means, on any date, (a) in respect of any capital lease of any Person, the capitalized amount thereof that would appear on a balance sheet of such Person prepared as of such date in accordance with GAAP, and (b) in respect of any Synthetic Lease Obligation, the capitalized amount of the remaining lease payments under the relevant lease that would appear on a balance sheet of such Person prepared as of such date in accordance with GAAP if such lease were accounted for as a capital lease.
Attributable Indebtedness
"" means the audited consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, and the related consolidated statements of income or operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for such fiscal year of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, including the notes thereto.
Audited Financial Statements
"" means the period from and including the Closing Date to the earliest of (a) the Business Day preceding the Revolving Maturity Date, (b) the date of termination of the Aggregate Revolving Commitments pursuant to , and (c) the date of termination of the commitment of each Lender to make Loans and of the obligation of the L/C Issuer to make L/C Credit Extensions pursuant to .
Availability Period
Section 2.07
Section 8.02
"" means Bank of America, N.A. and its successors.
Bank of America
"" means for any day a fluctuating rate per annum equal to the higher of (a) the Federal Funds Rate plus  of 1% and (b) the rate of interest in effect for such day as publicly announced from time to time by Bank of America as its "prime rate."  The "prime rate" is a rate set by Bank of America based upon various factors including Bank of America's costs and desired return, general economic conditions and other factors, and is used as a reference point for pricing some loans, which may be priced at, above, or below such announced rate.  Any change in such rate announced by Bank of America shall take effect at the opening of business on the day specified in the public announcement of such change.
Base Rate
"" means a Committed Loan that is a Base Rate Loan.
Base Rate Committed Loan
"" means a Loan that bears interest based on the Base Rate.
Base Rate Loan
"" means a Committed Revolving Loan that is a Base Rate Loan.
Base Rate Committed Revolving Loan
"" means a Term Loan that is a Base Rate Loan.
Base Rate Term Loan
"" means Banc of America Securities LLC, UBS Securities LLC, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Barclays Capital each in its capacity as joint bookrunner.
Bookrunners
"" has the meaning specified in the introductory paragraph hereto.
Borrower
"" has the meaning specified in .
Borrower Material
Section 6.02
"" means a Committed Borrowing, a Swing Line Borrowing or a Negotiated Rate Borrowing, as the context may require.
Borrowing
4
"" means the bridge loan credit agreement, dated as of October 5, 2006, among the Borrower, as borrower, the guarantors party thereto from time to time, Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent, and the lenders party thereto from time to time.
Bridge Loan Agreement
"" means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks are authorized to close under the Laws of, or are in fact closed in, the state where the Administrative Agent's Office is located and, if such day relates to any Eurodollar Rate Loan, means any such day on which dealings in Dollar deposits are conducted by and between banks in the London interbank eurodollar market.
Business Day
"" and "" each has the meaning specified in .  Derivatives of such terms shall have corresponding meanings.
Cash Collateral
Cash Collateralize
Section 2.03(g)
"" means any involuntary loss of title, any involuntary loss of, damage to or any destruction of, or any condemnation or other taking (including by any Governmental Authority) of, any property of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries.  "Casualty Event" shall include but not be limited to any taking of all or any part of any real property of any Person or any part thereof, in or by condemnation or other eminent domain proceedings, or by reason of the temporary requisition of the use or occupancy of all or any part of any real property of any person or any part thereof by any Governmental Authority, civil or military, or any settlement in lieu thereof.
Casualty Event
"" means the occurrence, after the date of this Agreement, of any of the following:  (a) the adoption or taking effect of any law, rule, regulation or treaty, (b) any change in any law, rule, regulation or treaty or in the administration, interpretation or application thereof by any Governmental Authority or (c) the making or issuance of any request, guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of law) by any Governmental Authority.
Change in Law
"" means an event or series of events by which:
Change of Control
(a)           any "person" or "group" (as such terms are used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, but excluding any employee benefit plan of such person or its subsidiaries, and any person or entity acting in its capacity as trustee, agent or other fiduciary or administrator of any such plan) becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, except that a person or group shall be deemed to have "beneficial ownership" of all securities that such person or group has the right to acquire (such right, an ""), whether such right is exercisable immediately or only after the passage of time), directly or indirectly, of 35% or more of the equity securities of the Borrower entitled to vote for members of the board of directors or equivalent governing body of the Borrower on a fully-diluted basis (and taking into account all such securities that such person or group has the right to acquire pursuant to any option right); or
option right
(b)           during any period of 24 consecutive months, a majority of the members of the board of directors or other equivalent governing body of the Borrower cease to be composed of individuals (i) who were members of that board or equivalent governing body on the first day of such period, (ii) whose election or nomination to that board or equivalent governing body was approved by individuals referred to in clause (i) above constituting at the time of such election or nomination at least a majority of that board or equivalent governing body or (iii) whose election or nomination to that board or other equivalent governing body was approved by individuals referred to in clauses (i) and (ii) above constituting at the time of such election or nomination at least a majority of that board or equivalent governing body (excluding, in the case of both clause (ii) and clause (iii), any individual whose initial nomination for, or assumption of office as, a
5
member of that board or equivalent governing body occurs as a result of an actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents for the election or removal of one or more directors by any person or group other than a solicitation for the election of one or more directors by or on behalf of the board of directors).
"" (a) when used with respect to Lenders, refers to whether such Lenders are Revolving Lenders or Term Lenders, (b) when used with respect to Commitments, refers to whether to such Commitments are Revolving Commitments or Term Commitments and (c) when used with respect to Loans or a Borrowing, refers to whether such Loans, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing, are Committed Revolving Loans, Swing Line Loans, Negotiated Rate Loans or Term Loans.
Class
"" means the first date all the conditions precedent in are satisfied or waived in accordance with .
Closing Date
Section 4.01
Section 10.01
"" means the occurrence since December 31, 2005 of any event, circumstance, change or effect (any such item, an "") that is, or is reasonably likely to be, materially adverse to the business, financial condition or results of operations of CNL and its subsidiaries taken as a whole; , , that in no event shall any of the following be deemed, either alone or in combination, to constitute, nor shall any of the following be taken into account in determining whether there has been, a Closing Date Material Adverse Effect:  (a) any Effect that results from changes in general economic conditions or changes in securities markets in general, including any changes in interest rates, (b) any Effect that results from general changes in the industries in which CNL and its subsidiaries operate, (c) any Effect related to the public announcement or the pendency or consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Acquisition Agreements, (d) any Effect that results from any action taken at the specific request of the Borrower, (e) any change in the market price or trading volume of the common stock of CNL after May 1, 2006, , that, the exception in this clause shall not prevent or otherwise affect a determination that any Effect(s) underlying such change has, individually or in the aggregate with any other Effect, resulted in a Material Adverse Effect, (f) any Effect that results from natural disasters, acts of war, sabotage or terrorism, military actions or the escalation thereof, or (g) any Effects resulting from any change in applicable law or regulation in the geographic regions in which CNL or any of its subsidiaries operates; in the case of clause (a), (b), (f) and (g), for any Effect that has a significantly disproportionate adverse impact on CNL and its subsidiaries compared to other companies of similar size operating in the principal industries in which CNL and its subsidiaries operate.
Closing Date Material Adverse Effect
Effect
provided
however
provided
except
"" has the meaning specified in the first recital to this Agreement.
CNL
"" has the meaning specified in the first recital to this Agreement.
CNL Merger
"" has the meaning specified in the first recital to this Agreement.
CNL Merger Agreement
"" has the meaning specified in the first recital to this Agreement.
CNL Merger Sub
"" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
Code
"" means a Revolving Commitment, Term Commitment, or any combination thereof (as the context requires).
Commitment
"" means a borrowing consisting of simultaneous Committed Loans of the same Type and Class and, in the case of Eurodollar Rate Loans, having the same Interest Period made by each of the Lenders pursuant to or .
Committed Borrowing
Section 2.01(a)
(b)
6
"" means a Committed Revolving Loan or a Term Loan.
Committed Loan
"" means a notice of (a) a Committed Borrowing, (b) a conversion of Committed Loans from one Type to the other, or (c) a continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans, pursuant to , which, if in writing, shall be substantially in the form of .
Committed Loan Notice
Section 2.02(a)
Exhibit A
"" has the meaning specified in and includes Committed Loans pursuant to .
Committed Revolving Loan
Section 2.01(a)
Section 2.03
"" means the Borrower and its Subsidiaries and "" means any one of them.
Companies
Company
"" means a certificate substantially in the form of .
Compliance Certificate
Exhibit F
"" means the sum of (a) EBITDA of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis plus (b) without duplication, the Borrower's Pro Rata Share of EBITDA of each Material Joint Venture.
Consolidated EBITDA
"" means, with respect to the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, the sum of (a) Consolidated Interest Expense plus (b) Scheduled Principal Payments plus (c) dividends and distributions in respect of preferred stock (but excluding redemption payments or charges in connection with the redemption of preferred stock) of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries.
Consolidated Fixed Charges
"" means an amount equal to the Intangible Assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.
Consolidated Intangible Assets
"" means the sum of (a) Interest Expense of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis plus (b) without duplication, the Borrower's Pro Rata Share of Interest Expense of each Material Joint Venture.
Consolidated Interest Expense
"" means, as of any date of determination, consolidated shareholders' equity of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, as determined in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Shareholders' Equity
"" means, as of any date of determination, for the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, an amount equal to (a) Consolidated Shareholders' Equity on such date minus (b) Consolidated Intangible Assets on such date.
Consolidated Tangible Net Worth
"" means the sum of (a) Total Asset Value of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis plus (b) without duplication, the Borrower's Pro Rata Share of Total Asset Value of each Material Joint Venture.
Consolidated Total Asset Value
"" means the sum of (a) Indebtedness of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis plus (b) without duplication, the Borrower's Pro Rata Share of Indebtedness of each Material Joint Venture.
Consolidated Total Indebtedness
"" means the sum of (a) Unencumbered Asset Value of the Borrower and the Borrower's Pro Rata Share of Unencumbered Asset Value of its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis plus (b) without duplication, the Borrower's Pro Rata Share of Unencumbered Asset Value of each Material Joint Venture; , , that the preceding calculation shall exclude Subsidiaries and Material Joint Ventures that are not Guarantors and which have Indebtedness other than Indebtedness owing to the Borrower or any Guarantor.
Consolidated Unencumbered Asset Value
provided
however
7
"" means, as to any Person, any provision of any security issued by such Person or of any agreement, instrument or other undertaking to which such Person is a party or by which it or any of its property is bound.
Contractual Obligation
"" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ability to exercise voting power, by contract or otherwise.  "" and "" have meanings correlative thereto.
Control
Controlling
Controlled
"" means each of the following: (a) a Borrowing and (b) an L/C Credit Extension.
Credit Extension
"" has the meaning specified in the definition of "Applicable Rate."
Debt Rating
"" means the Bankruptcy Code of the United States, and all other liquidation, conservatorship, bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors, moratorium, rearrangement, receivership, insolvency, reorganization, or similar debtor relief Laws of the United States or other applicable jurisdictions from time to time in effect and affecting the rights of creditors generally.
Debtor Relief Laws
"" means any event or condition that constitutes an Event of Default or that, with the giving of any notice, the passage of time, or both, would be an Event of Default.
Default
"" means (a) when used with respect to Obligations other than Letter of Credit Fees, an interest rate equal to (i) the Base Rate (ii) the Applicable Rate, if any, applicable to Base Rate Loans (iii) 2% per annum; , , that with respect to a Eurodollar Rate Loan, the Default Rate shall be an interest rate equal to the interest rate (including any Applicable Rate) otherwise applicable to such Loan plus 2% per annum, and (b) when used with respect to Letter of Credit Fees, a rate equal to the Applicable Rate plus 2% per annum.
Default Rate
plus
plus
provided
however
"" means any Lender that (a) has failed to fund any portion of the Committed Loans, participations in L/C Obligations or participations in Swing Line Loans required to be funded by it hereunder within one Business Day of the date required to be funded by it hereunder, (b) has otherwise failed to pay over to the Administrative Agent or any other Lender any other amount required to be paid by it hereunder within one Business Day of the date when due, unless the subject of a good faith dispute, or (c) has been deemed insolvent or become the subject of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding.
Defaulting Lender
"" means any real property in which the development and construction with respect thereto are not complete.
Development Property
"" or "" means the sale, transfer or assignment (including any sale and leaseback transaction) of any property by any Person, including any sale, assignment, transfer or other disposal, with or without recourse, of any notes or accounts receivable or any rights and claims associated therewith, in any case other than sales or other dispositions of assets in the ordinary course of business.
Disposition
Dispose
"" means each of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Barclays Bank PLC, Wachovia Bank, National Association, Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P. and Merrill Lynch Bank USA, in their capacity as Co-Documentation Agents.
Documentation Agent
"" and "" mean lawful money of the United States.
Dollar
$
"" means any Subsidiary that is organized under the laws of any political subdivision of the United States.
Domestic Subsidiary
8
"" means, for any period, for a Person and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, an amount equal to the Net Income of such Person and its Subsidiaries for such period (a) the following to the extent deducted in calculating such Net Income:  (i) Consolidated Interest Expense for such period, (ii) the provision for Federal, state, local and foreign income taxes payable by such Person and its Subsidiaries for such period, (iii) depreciation and amortization expense for such period and (iv) expenses of such Person and its Subsidiaries reducing such Net Income during such period which do not represent a cash expenditure in such period or any prior or future period and (b) all items of such Person and its Subsidiaries increasing Net Income for such period which do not represent a cash receipt in such period or any prior or future period.
EBITDA
plus
minus
"" means any Person that meets the requirements to be an assignee under , and (subject to such consents, if any, as may be required under ).
Eligible Assignee
Section 10.06(b)(iii)
(v)
(vi)
Section 10.06(b)(iii)
"" means any and all Federal, state, local, and foreign statutes, laws, regulations, ordinances, rules, judgments, orders, decrees, permits, concessions, grants, franchises, licenses, agreements or governmental restrictions relating to pollution and the protection of the environment or the release of any materials into the environment, including those related to hazardous substances or wastes, air emissions and discharges to waste or public systems.
Environmental Laws
"" means any liability, contingent or otherwise (including any liability for damages, costs of environmental remediation, fines, penalties or indemnities), of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries directly or indirectly resulting from or based upon (a) violation of any Environmental Law, (b) the generation, use, handling, transportation, storage, treatment or disposal of any Hazardous Materials, (c) exposure to any Hazardous Materials, (d) the release or threatened release of any Hazardous Materials into the environment or (e) any contract, agreement or other consensual arrangement pursuant to which liability is assumed or imposed with respect to any of the foregoing.
Environmental Liability
"" means, with respect to any Person, all of the shares of capital stock of (or other ownership or profit interests in) such Person and all of the warrants or options for the purchase or acquisition from such Person of shares of capital stock of (or other ownership or profit interests in) such Person.
Equity Interests
"" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.
ERISA
"" means any trade or business (whether or not incorporated) under common control with the Borrower within the meaning of Section 414(b) or (c) of the Code (and Sections 414(m) and (o) of the Code for purposes of provisions relating to Section 412 of the Code).
ERISA Affiliate
"" means (a) a Reportable Event with respect to a Pension Plan; (b) a withdrawal by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate from a Pension Plan subject to Section 4063 of ERISA during a plan year in which it was a substantial employer (as defined in Section 4001(a)(2) of ERISA) or a cessation of operations that is treated as such a withdrawal under Section 4062(e) of ERISA; (c) a complete or partial withdrawal by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate from a Multiemployer Plan or notification that a Multiemployer Plan is in reorganization; (d) the filing of a notice of intent to terminate, the treatment of a Plan amendment as a termination under Sections 4041 or 4041A of ERISA, or the commencement of proceedings by the PBGC to terminate a Pension Plan or Multiemployer Plan; (e) an event or condition which constitutes grounds under Section 4042 of ERISA for the termination of, or the appointment of a trustee to administer, any Pension Plan or Multiemployer Plan; or (f) the imposition of any liability under Title IV of ERISA, other than for PBGC premiums due but not delinquent under Section 4007 of ERISA, upon the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate.
ERISA Event
9
"" means, for any Interest Period with respect to a Eurodollar Rate Loan, the rate per annum equal to the British Bankers Association LIBOR Rate (""), as published by Reuters (or other commercially available source providing quotations of BBA LIBOR as designated by the Administrative Agent from time to time) at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period, for Dollar deposits (for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period) with a term equivalent to such Interest Period.  If such rate is not available at such time for any reason, then the "Eurodollar Rate" for such Interest Period shall be the rate per annum determined by the Administrative Agent to be the rate at which deposits in Dollars for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period in same day funds in the approximate amount of the Eurodollar Rate Loan being made, continued or converted by Bank of America and with a term equivalent to such Interest Period would be offered by Bank of America's London Branch to major banks in the London interbank eurodollar market at their request at approximately 4:00 p.m. (London time) two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period.
Eurodollar Rate
BBA LIBOR
"" means a Loan that bears interest at a rate based on the Eurodollar Rate.
Eurodollar Rate Loan
"" means a Committed Revolving Loan that bears interest at a rate based on the Eurodollar Rate.
Eurodollar Rate Revolving Loan
"" means a Term Loan that bears interest at a rate based on the Eurodollar Rate.
Eurodollar Rate Term Loan
"" has the meaning specified in .
Event of Default
Section 8.01
"" means, with respect to the Administrative Agent, any Lender, the L/C Issuer or any other recipient of any payment to be made by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower hereunder, (a) taxes imposed on or measured by its overall net income (however denominated), and franchise taxes imposed on it (in lieu of net income taxes), by the jurisdiction (or any political subdivision thereof) under the laws of which such recipient is organized or in which its principal office is located or, in the case of any Lender, in which its applicable Lending Office is located, (b) any branch profits taxes imposed by the United States or any similar tax imposed by any other jurisdiction in which the Borrower is located and (c) in the case of a Foreign Lender (other than an assignee pursuant to a request by the Borrower under ), any withholding tax that is imposed on amounts payable to such Foreign Lender at the time such Foreign Lender becomes a party hereto (or designates a new Lending Office) or is attributable to such Foreign Lender's failure or inability (other than as a result of a Change in Law) to comply with , except to the extent that such Foreign Lender (or its assignor, if any) was entitled, at the time of designation of a new Lending Office (or assignment), to receive additional amounts from the Borrower with respect to such withholding tax pursuant to .
Excluded Taxes
Section 10.13
Section 3.01(e)
Section 3.01(a)
"" means that certain Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of August 23, 2005 among CNL Retirement Partners, LP, as borrower, CNL Retirement GP Corp., CNL Retirement LP Corp., CNL Retirement Properties, Inc. and each of the other guarantors, Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent, swing line lender and L/C issuer, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and General Electric Capital Corporation as co-syndication agents, Wachovia Bank, National Association and Key Bank National Association, as co-documentation agents and the other lenders party thereto, and Banc of America Securities LLC, as sole lead arranger and sole book manager.
Existing CNL Credit Agreement
"" means that certain Credit Agreement, dated as of October 26, 2004, among the Borrower, Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent, swing line lender, and issuing bank, and the lenders party thereto.
Existing Credit Agreement
10
"" means the Letters of Credit issued under the Existing Credit Agreement set forth on .
Existing Letters of Credit
Schedule 2.03
"" means, from time to time, the number of basis points per annum set forth in the following table, with reference to the Pricing Levels set forth in the definition of "Applicable Rate":
Facility Fee Rate
 
"" means, for any day, the rate per annum equal to the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers on such day, as published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on the Business Day next succeeding such day; that (a) if such day is not a Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be such rate on such transactions on the next preceding Business Day as so published on the next succeeding Business Day, and (b) if no such rate is so published on such next succeeding Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be the average rate (rounded upward, if necessary, to a whole multiple of 1/100 of 1%) charged to Bank of America on such day on such transactions as determined by the Administrative Agent.
Federal Funds Rate
provided
"" means the Amended and Restated Bank and Bridge Facilities Fee Letter Agreement, dated July 10, 2006, among the Borrower, Bank of America, N.A., Banc of America Securities LLC, UBS Loan Finance LLC, UBS Securities LLC, JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., Barclays Bank PLC and Barclays Capital.
Fee Letter
"" means, on the last day of any fiscal quarter, the ratio of (a) Consolidated EBITDA for the twelve month period ending on such date to (b) Consolidated Fixed Charges for the twelve month period ending on such date.
Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio
"" means any Lender that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than that in which the Borrower is a resident for tax purposes.  For purposes of this definition, the United States, each State thereof and the District of Columbia shall be deemed to constitute a single jurisdiction.
Foreign Lender
"" shall mean a Subsidiary that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than the United States or any state thereof or the District of Columbia.
Foreign Subsidiary
"" means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States.
FRB
"" means any Person (other than a natural person) that is (or will be) engaged in making, purchasing, holding or otherwise investing in commercial loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its business.
Fund
"" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board or such other principles as may be approved by a significant segment of the accounting profession in the United States, that are applicable to the circumstances as of the date of determination, consistently applied.
GAAP
11
"" means the government of the United States or any other nation, or of any political subdivision thereof, whether state or local, and any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, central bank or other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government (including any supra-national bodies such as the European Union or the European Central Bank).
Governmental Authority
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Granting Lender
Section 10.06(h)
"" means, as to any Person, (a) any obligation, contingent or otherwise, of such Person guaranteeing or having the economic effect of guaranteeing any Indebtedness or other obligation payable or performable by another Person (the "primary obligor") in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, and including any obligation of such Person, direct or indirect, (i) to purchase or pay (or advance or supply funds for the purchase or payment of) such Indebtedness or other obligation, (ii) to purchase or lease property, securities or services for the purpose of assuring the obligee in respect of such Indebtedness or other obligation of the payment or performance of such Indebtedness or other obligation, (iii) to maintain working capital, equity capital or any other financial statement condition or liquidity or level of income or cash flow of the primary obligor so as to enable the primary obligor to pay such Indebtedness or other obligation, or (iv) entered into for the purpose of assuring in any other manner the obligee in respect of such Indebtedness or other obligation of the payment or performance thereof or to protect such obligee against loss in respect thereof (in whole or in part), or (b) any Lien on any assets of such Person securing any Indebtedness or other obligation of any other Person, whether or not such Indebtedness or other obligation is assumed by such Person (or any right, contingent or otherwise, of any holder of such Indebtedness to obtain any such Lien).  The amount of any Guarantee shall be deemed to be an amount equal to the stated or determinable amount of the related primary obligation, or portion thereof, in respect of which such Guarantee is made or, if not stated or determinable, the maximum reasonably anticipated liability in respect thereof as determined by the guaranteeing Person in good faith.  The term "Guarantee" as a verb has a corresponding meaning.
Guarantee
"" means a collective reference to the Subsidiary Guarantors and each other Person that subsequently joins as a Guarantor pursuant to , together with their successors and permitted assigns, and "" means any one of them.
Guarantors
Section 6.13
Guarantor
"" means all explosive or radioactive substances or wastes and all hazardous or toxic substances, wastes or other pollutants, including petroleum or petroleum distillates, asbestos or asbestos-containing materials, polychlorinated biphenyls, radon gas, infectious or medical wastes and all other substances or wastes of any nature regulated pursuant to any Environmental Law.
Hazardous Materials
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Honor Date
Section 2.03(c)
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Increase Effective Date
Section 2.16(d)
"" means, as to any Person, without duplication, all of the following, whether or not included as indebtedness or liabilities in accordance with GAAP:
Indebtedness
(a)           all obligations of such Person for borrowed money, whether secured or unsecured, and all obligations of such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes, loan agreements or other similar instruments including, without limitation, recourse and non-recourse mortgage debt;
12
(b)           all direct or contingent obligations of such Person arising under letters of credit (including standby and commercial), bankers' acceptances, bank guaranties, surety bonds and similar instruments;
(c)           aggregate net obligations of such Person under Swap Contracts;
(d)           all obligations of such Person to pay the deferred purchase price of property or services (other than trade accounts payable in the ordinary course of business);
(e)           indebtedness (excluding prepaid interest thereon) secured by a Lien on property owned or being purchased by such Person (including indebtedness arising under conditional sales or other title retention agreements), whether or not such indebtedness shall have been assumed by such Person or is limited in recourse, to the extent of the value of the property encumbered by such Lien;
(f)            capital leases and Synthetic Lease Obligations;
(g)           all obligations of such Person to purchase, redeem, retire, defease or otherwise make any payment in respect of any Equity Interest in such Person at any time prior to the date that is six months after the Maturity Date, valued, in the case of a redeemable preferred interest, at the liquidation preference thereof; and
(h)           all Guarantees of such Person in respect of any of the foregoing.
For all purposes hereof, (i) the amount of any net obligation under any Swap Contract on any date shall be deemed to be the Swap Termination Value thereof as of such date (which shall be a positive number if such amount would be owed by the Borrower and a negative number if such amount would be owed to the Borrower) and the net obligations under Swap Contacts shall not be less than zero, (ii) the amount of any capital lease or Synthetic Lease Obligation as of any date shall be deemed to be the amount of Attributable Indebtedness in respect thereof as of such date and (iii) Consolidated Total Indebtedness shall not include security deposits, accrued liabilities or prepaid rent, each as defined in accordance with GAAP.
"" means Taxes other than Excluded Taxes.
Indemnified Taxes
"" has the meaning specified in .
Indemnitee
Section 10.04(b)
"" has the meaning set forth in the definition of Revolving Maturity Date.
Initial Maturity Date
"" means any proceeds received from insurance maintained by or on behalf of the Borrower or any Subsidiary and relating to claims with respect to losses of the Borrower or such Subsidiary, whether such proceeds are payable to the Borrower, such Subsidiary or to the Administrative Agent, net of amounts of the type described in clauses (A), (B) and (C) of clause (a)(ii) of the definition of "Net Cash Proceeds" with respect to the loss giving rise to receipt of such proceeds.
Insurance Proceeds
"" means assets of a Person and its Subsidiaries that are classified as intangible assets under GAAP, but excluding interests in real estate that are classified as intangible assets in accordance with GAAP.
Intangible Assets
"" means, for any period, for a Person and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, the sum of all (a) interest expense for such period determined in accordance with GAAP (but excluding any charges resulting from settlement of options to repurchase remarketable bonds) and (b) interest that is capitalized in such period in accordance with GAAP.
Interest Expense
13
"" means, (a) as to any Loan other than a Base Rate Loan, the last day of each Interest Period applicable to such Loan and the Maturity Date; , , that if any Interest Period for a Eurodollar Rate Loan or a Negotiated Rate Loan exceeds three months, the respective dates that fall every three months after the beginning of such Interest Period shall also be Interest Payment Dates; and (b) as to any Base Rate Loan (including a Swing Line Loan), the last Business Day of each calendar quarter and the Maturity Date.
Interest Payment Date
provided
however
"" means, (a) as to each Eurodollar Rate Loan, the period commencing on the date such Eurodollar Rate Loan is disbursed or converted to or continued as a Eurodollar Rate Loan and ending on the date one, two, three or six months (or if agreed to by all Lenders, nine or twelve months) thereafter, as selected by the Borrower in its Committed Loan Notice and (b) as to the each Negotiated Rate Loan, the period commencing on the date such Negotiated Rate Loan is disbursed and ending on the date not more than 180 days thereafter as selected by the Borrower in its Negotiated Rate Loan Notice; that:
Interest Period
provided
(i)            any Interest Period that would otherwise end on a day that is not a Business Day shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day unless such Business Day falls in another calendar month, in which case such Interest Period shall end on the next preceding Business Day;
(ii)           any Interest Period that begins on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the calendar month at the end of such Interest Period) shall end on the last Business Day of the calendar month at the end of such Interest Period; and
(iii)          no Interest Period shall extend beyond the Maturity Date.
"" means a material weakness in, or fraud that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in, the Borrower's internal controls over financial reporting, in each case as described in the Securities Laws.
Internal Control Event
"" means, as to any Person, any direct or indirect acquisition or investment by such Person, whether by means of (a) the purchase or other acquisition of capital stock or other securities of another Person, (b) a loan, advance or capital contribution to, Guarantee or assumption of debt of, or purchase or other acquisition of any other debt or equity participation or interest in, another Person, including any partnership or joint venture interest in such other Person and any arrangement pursuant to which the investor Guarantees Indebtedness of such other Person, or (c) the purchase or other acquisition (in one transaction or a series of transactions) of assets of another Person that constitute a business unit.  For purposes of covenant compliance, the amount of any Investment shall be the amount actually invested, without adjustment for subsequent increases or decreases in the value of such Investment.
Investment
"" has the meaning specified in .
IP Rights
Section 5.17
"" means the United States Internal Revenue Service.
IRS
"" means, with respect to any Letter of Credit, the "International Standby Practices 1998" published by the Institute of International Banking Law & Practice (or such later version thereof as may be in effect at the time of issuance).
ISP
14
"" means with respect to any Letter of Credit, the Letter of Credit Application, and any other document, agreement and instrument entered into by the L/C Issuer and the Borrower (or any Subsidiary) or in favor of the L/C Issuer and relating to any such Letter of Credit.
Issuer Documents
"" means a joinder agreement substantially in the form of executed and delivered by a new Guarantor in accordance with .
Joinder Agreement
Exhibit J
Section 6.13
"" means any Person in which the Borrower, directly or indirectly, has an ownership interest but does not consolidate the assets or income of such Person in preparing its consolidated financial statements.
Joint Venture
"" means, collectively, all international, foreign, Federal, state and local statutes, treaties, rules, guidelines, regulations, ordinances, codes and administrative or judicial precedents or authorities, including the interpretation or administration thereof by any Governmental Authority charged with the enforcement, interpretation or administration thereof, and all applicable administrative orders, directed duties, requests, licenses, authorizations and permits of, and agreements with, any Governmental Authority, in each case whether or not having the force of law.
Laws
"" means, with respect to each Lender, such Lender's funding of its participation in any L/C Borrowing in accordance with its Applicable Percentage.
L/C Advance
"" means an extension of credit resulting from a drawing under any Letter of Credit which has not been reimbursed on the date when made or refinanced as a Committed Borrowing.
L/C Borrowing
"" means, with respect to any Letter of Credit, the issuance thereof or extension of the expiry date thereof, or the increase of the amount thereof.
L/C Credit Extension
"" means Bank of America in its capacity as issuer of Letters of Credit hereunder, or any successor issuer of Letters of Credit hereunder.
L/C Issuer
"" means, as at any date of determination, the aggregate amount available to be drawn under all outstanding Letters of Credit the aggregate of all Unreimbursed Amounts, including all L/C Borrowings. For purposes of computing the amount available to be drawn under any Letter of Credit, the amount of such Letter of Credit shall be determined in accordance with .  For all purposes of this Agreement, if on any date of determination a Letter of Credit has expired by its terms but any amount may still be drawn thereunder by reason of the operation of Rule 3.14 of the ISP, such Letter of Credit shall be deemed to be "outstanding" in the amount so remaining available to be drawn.
L/C Obligations
plus
Section 1.06
"" has the meaning specified in the introductory paragraph hereto and, as the context requires, includes the Swing Line Lender.
Lender
"" means, as to any Lender, the office or offices of such Lender described as such in such Lender's Administrative Questionnaire, or such other office or offices as a Lender may from time to time notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
Lending Office
"" means any standby letter of credit issued hereunder.
Letter of Credit
"" means an application and agreement for the issuance or amendment of a Letter of Credit in the form from time to time in use by the L/C Issuer.
Letter of Credit Application
 
15
"" means the day that is the fifth day prior to the Revolving Maturity Date then in effect (or, if such day is not a Business Day, the next preceding Business Day).
Letter of Credit Expiration Date
"" has the meaning specified in .
Letter of Credit Fee
Section 2.03(i)
"" means an amount equal to ten percent (10%) of the Aggregate Revolving Commitments.  The Letter of Credit Sublimit is part of, and not in addition to, the Aggregate Revolving Commitments.
Letter of Credit Sublimit
"" means, on the last day of any fiscal quarter, the ratio of (a) Consolidated Total Indebtedness outstanding on such date to (b) Consolidated Total Asset Value as of such date.
Leverage Ratio
"" means any mortgage, pledge, hypothecation, assignment, deposit arrangement, encumbrance, lien (statutory or other), charge, or preference, priority or other security interest or preferential arrangement in the nature of a security interest of any kind or nature whatsoever (including any conditional sale or other title retention agreement, any easement, right of way or other encumbrance on title to real property, and any financing lease having substantially the same economic effect as any of the foregoing).
Lien
"" means an extension of credit by a Lender to the Borrower under in the form of a Committed Loan, a Swing Line Loan or a Negotiated Rate Loan.
Loan
Article II
"" means this Agreement, each Note, each Issuer Document, and the Fee Letter.
Loan Documents
"" means, collectively, the Borrower and each Guarantor.  For purposes of the representations and warranties made pursuant to on the Closing Date, references to "Loan Party" shall exclude any Person that is or is required to become a Loan Party immediately following the CNL Merger and the Advisor Merger.
Loan Parties
Article V
"" means (a) a material adverse change in, or a material adverse effect upon, the operations, business, properties, liabilities (actual or contingent) or condition (financial or otherwise) of the Borrower or the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole; (b) a material impairment of the ability of the Borrowers to perform its obligations under any Loan Document to which it is a party; or (c) a material adverse effect upon the legality, validity, binding effect or enforceability against the Borrower of any Loan Document to which it is a party.
Material Adverse Effect
"" means a Joint Venture in which the Borrower has made a net equity investment of $15,000,000 or greater.  For purposes of this definition, the Borrower's aggregate Investment in a Joint Venture will be valued at (a) the aggregate amount of cash and cash equivalents and the book value of other property contributed by the Borrower to such Joint Venture (b) the aggregate amount of distributions received by the Borrower from such Joint Venture that would be classified as a return of capital (as opposed to a return on investment).
Material Joint Venture
minus
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and any successor thereto.
Moody's
"" means any Lien that encumbers a real property owned by a Person other than Permitted Liens.
Mortgage Lien
"" means any employee benefit plan of the type described in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA, to which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate makes or is obligated to make contributions, or during the preceding five plan years, has made or been obligated to make contributions.
Multiemployer Plan
16
"" means one or more Negotiated Rate Loans made to the Borrower by one or more of the Lenders and of which the Administrative Agent is given notice by a Negotiated Rate Loan Notice.
Negotiated Rate Borrowing
"" shall have the meaning set forth in .
Negotiated Rate Funding Date
Section 2.05(b)
"" shall have the meaning set forth in .
Negotiated Rate Loan
Section 2.05(a)
"" means the notice, in substantially the form of , pursuant to a Negotiated Rate Loan, and made pursuant to , duly completed and executed and personally delivered or transmitted by facsimile by the Borrower.
Negotiated Rate Loan Notice
Exhibit C
Section 2.05
"" means an amount equal to fifty percent (50%) of the Aggregate Revolving Commitments, which shall be available for negotiated rate advances.  The Negotiated Rate Sublimit is part of, and not in addition to, the Aggregate Revolving Commitments.
Negotiated Rate Sublimit
"" means:
Net Cash Proceeds
(a)           with respect to any Disposition or Casualty Event, the excess, if any, of (i) the sum of cash and cash equivalents received in connection with such Disposition or Casualty Event (including any cash received by way of deferred payment pursuant to, or by monetization of or other cash realization upon, a note receivable or other non-cash consideration, but only as and when so received) over (ii) the sum of (A) the principal, interest, premiums, penalties and other amounts due under any Indebtedness that is secured by a Lien on such asset and that is required to be repaid in connection with such event (other than Indebtedness under the Loan Documents), (B) the out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Borrower or any Subsidiary in connection with such Disposition or Casualty Event, (C) taxes reasonably estimated to be actually payable with respect to the taxable year in which such Disposition or Casualty Event occurred as a result of any gain recognized in connection therewith and (D) amounts reasonably expected to be payable prior to the Term Loan Maturity Date pursuant to customary escrow arrangements, purchase price adjustments or indemnification agreements in connection with such Disposition (as estimated in good faith by a Responsible Officer of the applicable Loan Party and set forth in a certificate delivered to the Administrative Agent prior to the consummation of such Disposition); and
(b)           with respect to any debt incurrence or Public Equity Issuance, the excess of (i) the sum of the cash and cash equivalents received in connection with such event over (ii) the underwriting discounts and commissions, and other out-of-pocket fees and expenses, incurred by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in connection with such sale.
"" means, for any period, for a Person and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, the net income of such Person and its Subsidiaries (excluding extraordinary gains and extraordinary losses and other non-recurring items, including, without limitation, charges resulting from settlement of options to repurchase remarketable bonds and other similar charges) for that period as determined in accordance with GAAP.
Net Income
"" means a promissory note made by the Borrower in favor of a Lender evidencing Loans made by such Lender, substantially in the form of for Term Loans and for Committed Revolving Loans.
Note
Exhibit D
Exhibit E
17
"" means all advances to, and debts, liabilities, obligations, covenants and duties of any Loan Party arising under any Loan Document or otherwise with respect to any Loan or Letter of Credit, whether direct or indirect (including those acquired by assumption), absolute or contingent, due or to become due, now existing or hereafter arising and including interest and fees that accrue after the commencement by or against any Loan Party or any Affiliate thereof of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Laws naming such Person as the debtor in such proceeding, regardless of whether such interest and fees are allowed claims in such proceeding.
Obligations
"" means, (a) with respect to any corporation, the certificate or articles of incorporation and the bylaws (or equivalent or comparable constitutive documents with respect to any non-U.S. jurisdiction); (b) with respect to any limited liability company, the certificate or articles of formation or organization and operating agreement; and (c) with respect to any partnership, joint venture, trust or other form of business entity, the partnership, joint venture or other applicable agreement of formation or organization and any agreement, instrument, filing or notice with respect thereto filed in connection with its formation or organization with the applicable Governmental Authority in the jurisdiction of its formation or organization and, if applicable, any certificate or articles of formation or organization of such entity.
Organization Documents
"" means all present or future stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies arising from any payment made hereunder or under any other Loan Document or from the execution, delivery or enforcement of, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
Other Taxes
"" means (a) with respect to Term Loans, Committed Revolving Loans, Swing Line Loans and Negotiated Rate Loans on any date, the aggregate outstanding principal amount thereof after giving effect to any borrowings and prepayments or repayments of Term Loans, Committed Revolving Loans, Swing Line Loans and Negotiated Rate Loans, as the case may be, occurring on such date; and (b) with respect to any L/C Obligations on any date, the amount of such L/C Obligations on such date after giving effect to any L/C Credit Extension occurring on such date and any other changes in the aggregate amount of the L/C Obligations as of such date, including as a result of any reimbursements by the Borrower of Unreimbursed Amounts.
Outstanding Amount
"" has the meaning specified in .
Participant
Section 10.06(d)
"" has the meaning specified in .
Patriot Act
Section 10.17
"" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation.
PBGC
"" means any "employee pension benefit plan" (as such term is defined in Section 3(2) of ERISA), other than a Multiemployer Plan, that is subject to Title IV of ERISA and is sponsored or maintained by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate or to which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate contributes or has an obligation to contribute, or in the case of a multiple employer or other plan described in Section 4064(a) of ERISA, has made contributions at any time during the immediately preceding five plan years.
Pension Plan
"" means Liens permitted under , , , and .
Permitted Liens
Section 7.01(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
(g)
"" means any natural person, corporation, limited liability company, trust, joint venture, association, company, partnership, Governmental Authority or other entity.
Person
"" means any "employee benefit plan" (as such term is defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA) established by the Borrower or, with respect to any such plan that is subject to Section 412 of the Code or Title IV of ERISA, any ERISA Affiliate.
Plan
18
"" has the meaning specified in .
Platform
Section 6.02
"" means (a) with respect to the EBITDA, Net Income, Interest Expense, Total Asset Value and Unencumbered Asset Value of each Joint Venture, the Borrower's direct or indirect, percentage ownership interest in such Joint Venture and (b) with respect to the Indebtedness of each Joint Venture (i) if the Indebtedness is recourse to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries the amount of such Indebtedness that is recourse to the Borrower or such Subsidiary and (ii) if the Indebtedness is not recourse to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, the Borrower's percentage ownership interest in such Joint Venture.
Pro Rata Share
"" means the issuance, sale or other disposition by the Borrower or one if its Subsidiaries of its Equity Interests, including any Rule 144A offering or any rights, warrants or options to purchase shares of its Equity Interests; that the term Public Equity Issuance shall not include (a) the issuance or sale of Equity Interests by a Subsidiary of the Borrower to the Borrower or another Subsidiary of the Borrower or (b) any rights, options or Equity Interests issued pursuant to employee or director incentive, stock option or stock repurchase plans in the ordinary course.
Public Equity Issuance
provided
"" has the meaning specified in .
Public Lender
Section 6.02
"" means the repayment of existing indebtedness of the Borrower and CNL of up to $1,100,000,000 in connection with the Acquisitions.
Refinancing
"" has the meaning specified in .
Register
Section 10.06(c)
"" has the meaning specified in the Securities Laws and shall be independent of the Borrower as prescribed by the Securities Laws.
Registered Public Accounting Firm
"" means a real estate investment trust as defined in Sections 856-860 of the Code.
REIT
"" means, with respect to any Person, such Person's Affiliates and the partners, directors, officers, employees, agents and advisors of such Person and of such Person's Affiliates.
Related Parties
"" means any of the events set forth in Section 4043(c) of ERISA, other than events for which the 30 day notice period has been waived.
Reportable Event
"" means (a) with respect to a Borrowing, conversion or continuation of Committed Loans, a Committed Loan Notice, (b) with respect to an L/C Credit Extension, a Letter of Credit Application, and (c) with respect to a Swing Line Loan, a Swing Line Loan Notice and (d) with respect to a Negotiated Rate Loan, a Negotiated Rate Loan Notice.
Request for Credit Extension
"" means, as of any date of determination, (a) Lenders having more than 50% of the sum of (i) the Aggregate Revolving Commitments and (ii) the Total Term Outstandings or (b) if the commitment of each Lender to make Loans and the obligation of the L/C Issuer to make L/C Credit Extensions have been terminated pursuant to , Lenders holding in the aggregate more than 50% of the Total Outstandings (with the aggregate amount of each Lender's risk participation and funded participation in L/C Obligations and Swing Line Loans being deemed "held" by such Lender for purposes of this definition); that the Revolving Commitment of, and the portion of the Total Outstandings held or deemed held by, any Defaulting Lender shall be excluded for purposes of making a determination of Required Lenders.
Required Lenders
Section 8.02
provided
19
"" means, as of any date of determination, Revolving Lenders having more than 50% of the Aggregate Revolving Commitments (with the aggregate amount of each Revolving Lender's risk participation and funded participation in L/C Obligations and Swing Line Loans being deemed "held" by such Revolving Lender as Committed Revolving Loans for purposes of this definition); that the Commitment of and the Outstanding Amount of Committed Revolving Loans held or deemed held by, any Defaulting Lender shall be excluded for purposes of making a determination of Required Revolving Lenders.
Required Revolving Lenders
provided
"" means, as of any date of determination, Term Lenders having more than 50% of the Total Term Outstandings; that the Outstanding Amount of Term Loans held or deemed held by any Defaulting Lender shall be excluded for purposes of making a determination of Required Term Lenders.
Required Term Lenders
provided
"" means the chief executive officer, president, chief financial officer, each executive vice president and senior vice president, and the treasurer of a Loan Party.  Any document delivered hereunder that is signed by a Responsible Officer of a Loan Party shall be conclusively presumed to have been authorized by all necessary corporate, partnership and/or other action on the part of the Loan Party and such Responsible Officer shall be conclusively presumed to have acted on behalf of the Loan Party.
Responsible Officer
"" means any payment (whether in cash, securities or other property), including any sinking fund or similar deposit, on account of the purchase, redemption, retirement, acquisition, cancellation or termination of any such capital stock or other Equity Interest, or on account of any return of capital to the Borrower's stockholders, partners or members (or the equivalent Person thereof).
Restricted Payment
"" means, as to each Lender, its obligation to (a) make Committed Revolving Loans to the Borrower pursuant to , (b) purchase participations in L/C Obligations, and (c) purchase participations in Swing Line Loans, in an aggregate principal amount at any one time outstanding not to exceed the amount set forth opposite such Lender's name in the column entitled "Revolving Commitment" on or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender becomes a party hereto, as applicable, as such amount may be adjusted from time to time in accordance with this Agreement.
Revolving Commitment
Section 2.01
Schedule 2.01
"" means a Lender with a Revolving Commitment or an outstanding Committed Revolving Loan or an outstanding Negotiated Rate Loan and, as the context requires, includes the L/C Issuer and the Swing Line Lender.
Revolving Lender
"" means any extension of credit by a Lender to the Borrower under other than a Term Loan.
Revolving Loan
Article II
"" means October 2, 2009 (the ""), subject to extension in accordance with .
Revolving Maturity Date
Initial Maturity Date
Section 2.15
"" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. and any successor thereto.
S&P
"" means (a) all scheduled principal payments by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries with respect to its Consolidated Total Indebtedness (other than payments due at final maturity of any tranche of Indebtedness) and (b) without duplication, the Borrower's Pro Rata Share of all scheduled principal payments with respect to the Indebtedness (other than payments due at final maturity of any tranche of Indebtedness) of each Material Joint Venture, in each case without giving effect to any reduction in such scheduled principal payments as a result of any voluntary or mandatory prepayment with respect thereto made in the same period in which such principal payment was scheduled to be made.
Scheduled Principal Payment
20
"" means the Securities and Exchange Commission, or any Governmental Authority succeeding to any of its principal functions.
SEC
"" means that portion of Consolidated Total Indebtedness that is subject to a Lien (other than Permitted Liens).
Secured Debt
"" means, on the last day of any fiscal quarter, the ratio of (a) Secured Debt outstanding on such date to (b) Consolidated Total Asset Value as of such date.
Secured Debt Ratio
"" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the ""), the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the applicable accounting and auditing principles, rules, standards and practices promulgated, approved or incorporated by the SEC or the PCAOB.
Securities Laws
Securities Act
Securities Exchange Act
"" means each of Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., Citicorp North America, Inc., Credit Suisse, Cayman Islands Branch, Key Bank National Association, SunTrust Bank, The Bank of Nova Scotia and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc in their capacity as Senior Managing Agents.
Senior Managing Agent
"" has the meaning set forth in .
SPC
Section 10.06(h)
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Specified Representations
Section 4.01(a)(viii)
"" of a Person means a corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company or other business entity the accounts of which are consolidated with the accounts of the Borrower in the Borrower's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP.  Unless otherwise specified, all references herein to a "" or to "" shall refer to a Subsidiary or Subsidiaries of the Borrower.
Subsidiary
Subsidiary
Subsidiaries
"" means (a) each Subsidiary of the Borrower identified on the signature pages hereto, and (b) each other Subsidiary of the Borrower that subsequently joins as a Guarantor pursuant to , together with their successors and permitted assigns, and "" means any one of them.
Subsidiary Guarantors
Section 6.13
Subsidiary Guarantor
"" means (a) any and all rate swap transactions, basis swaps, credit derivative transactions, forward rate transactions, commodity swaps, commodity options, forward commodity contracts, equity or equity index swaps or options, bond or bond price or bond index swaps or options or forward bond or forward bond price or forward bond index transactions, interest rate options, forward foreign exchange transactions, cap transactions, floor transactions, collar transactions, currency swap transactions, cross-currency rate swap transactions, currency options, spot contracts, or any other similar transactions or any combination of any of the foregoing, whether or not any such transaction is governed by or subject to any master agreement, and (b) any and all transactions of any kind, and the related confirmations, which are subject to the terms and conditions of, or governed by, any form of master agreement published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc., any International Foreign Exchange Master Agreement, or any other master agreement (any such master agreement, together with any related schedules, a ""), including any such obligations or liabilities under any Master Agreement.
Swap Contract
Master Agreement
21
"" means, in respect of any one or more Swap Contracts, after taking into account the effect of any legally enforceable netting agreement relating to such Swap Contracts, (a) for any date on or after the date such Swap Contracts have been closed out and termination value(s) determined in accordance therewith, such termination value(s), and (b) for any date prior to the date referenced in clause (a), the amount(s) determined as the mark-to-market value(s) for such Swap Contracts, as determined based upon one or more mid-market or other readily available quotations provided by any recognized dealer in such Swap Contracts (which may include a Lender or any Affiliate of a Lender).
Swap Termination Value
"" means the revolving credit facility made available by the Swing Line Lender pursuant to .
Swing Line
Section 2.04
"" means a borrowing of a Swing Line Loan pursuant to .
Swing Line Borrowing
Section 2.04
"" means Bank of America in its capacity as provider of Swing Line Loans, or any successor swing line lender hereunder.
Swing Line Lender
"" has the meaning specified in .
Swing Line Loan
Section 2.04(a)
"" means a notice of a Swing Line Borrowing pursuant to , which, if in writing, shall be substantially in the form of .
Swing Line Loan Notice
Section 2.04(b)
Exhibit B
"" means an amount equal to ten percent (10%) of the Aggregate Revolving Commitments.  The Swing Line Sublimit is part of, and not in addition to, the Aggregate Revolving Commitments.
Swing Line Sublimit
"" means UBS Securities LLC in its capacity as Syndication Agent.
Syndication Agent
"" means the monetary obligation of a Person under a so-called synthetic, off-balance sheet or tax retention lease.
Synthetic Lease Obligation
"" means all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties, deductions, withholdings, assessments, fees or other charges imposed by any Governmental Authority, including any interest, additions to tax or penalties applicable thereto.
Taxes
"" means, as to each Lender, its obligation to make Term Loans to the Borrower pursuant to , in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed the amount set forth opposite such Lender's name in the column entitled "Term Commitment" on or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender becomes a party hereto, as applicable, as such amount may be adjusted from time to time in accordance with this Agreement.
Term Commitment
Section 2.01
Schedule 2.01
"" means a Lender with a Term Commitment or an outstanding Term Loan.
Term Lender
"" has the meaning specified in .
Term Loan
Section 2.01(b)
"" means October 3, 2008.
Term Loan Maturity Date
"" means $50,000,000.
Threshold Amount
22
"" means an amount equal to (a) all assets of a Person and its Subsidiaries as determined in accordance with GAAP plus (b) all accumulated depreciation associated with such assets minus (c) Intangible Assets.
Total Asset Value
"" means the Total Revolving Outstandings and the Total Term Outstandings.
Total Outstandings
"" means the aggregate Outstanding Amount of all Committed Revolving Loans, all Swing Line Loans, all L/C Obligations and all Negotiated Rate Loans.
Total Revolving Outstandings
"" means the aggregate Outstanding Amount of all Term Loans.
Total Term Outstandings
"" means, collectively, (i) the Acquisitions, (ii) the Refinancing, (iii) the entering into of this Agreement and the funding of the Loans, (iv) the payment of related fees, commissions and expenses, (v) the entry into and borrowing of up to $705,729,000 under the Bridge Loan Agreement, and (vi) all transactions related thereto.
Transactions
"" means any treasury, depository or cash management arrangements, services or products, including, without limitation, overdraft services and automated clearinghouse transfers of funds.
Treasury Management Agreement
"" means, with respect to a Committed Loan, its character as a Base Rate Loan or a Eurodollar Rate Loan.
Type
"" means the sum of (a) the aggregate net book value, as determined in accordance with GAAP, of all real property of a Person that is not subject to a Mortgage Lien plus (b) all accumulated depreciation with respect to such real properties plus (c) unrestricted cash and cash equivalents of such Person.
Unencumbered Asset Value
"" means the excess of a Pension Plan's benefit liabilities under Section 4001(a)(16) of ERISA, over the current value of that Pension Plan's assets, determined in accordance with the assumptions used for funding the Pension Plan pursuant to Section 412 of the Code for the applicable plan year.
Unfunded Pension Liability
"" and "." mean the United States of America.
United States
U.S
"" has the meaning specified in .
Unreimbursed Amount
Section 2.03(c)(i)
"" means that portion of Consolidated Total Indebtedness that is not Secured Debt.
Unsecured Debt
"" means, on the last day of any fiscal quarter, the ratio of (a) Unsecured Debt outstanding on such date to (b) Consolidated Unencumbered Asset Value as of such date.
Unsecured Leverage Ratio
1.02        .
Other Interpretive Provisions
With reference to this Agreement and each other Loan Document, unless otherwise specified herein or in such other Loan Document:
(a)           The definitions of terms herein shall apply equally to the singular and plural forms of the terms defined.  Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms.  The words "," "" and
include
includes
23
"" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation."  The word "" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect as the word "."  Unless the context requires otherwise, (i) any definition of or reference to any agreement, instrument or other document (including any Organization Document) shall be construed as referring to such agreement, instrument or other document as from time to time amended, supplemented or otherwise modified (subject to any restrictions on such amendments, supplements or modifications set forth herein or in any other Loan Document), (ii) any reference herein to any Person shall be construed to include such Person's successors and assigns, (iii) the words "," "" and "," and words of similar import when used in any Loan Document, shall be construed to refer to such Loan Document in its entirety and not to any particular provision thereof, (iv) all references in a Loan Document to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules shall be construed to refer to Articles and Sections of, and Exhibits and Schedules to, the Loan Document in which such references appear, (v) any reference to any law shall include all statutory and regulatory provisions consolidating, amending replacing or interpreting such law and any reference to any law or regulation shall, unless otherwise specified, refer to such law or regulation as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time, and (vi) the words "" and "" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect and to refer to any and all tangible and intangible assets and properties, including cash, securities, accounts and contract rights.
including
will
shall
herein
hereof
hereunder
asset
property
(b)           In the computation of periods of time from a specified date to a later specified date, the word "" means ";" the words "" and "" each mean ";" and the word "" means "."
from
from and including
to
until
to but excluding
through
to and including
(c)           Section headings herein and in the other Loan Documents are included for convenience of reference only and shall not affect the interpretation of this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
1.03        .
Accounting Terms
(a)           .  All accounting terms not specifically or completely defined herein shall be construed in conformity with, and all financial data (including financial ratios and other financial calculations) required to be submitted pursuant to this Agreement shall be prepared in conformity with, GAAP applied on a consistent basis, as in effect from time to time, applied in a manner consistent with that used in preparing the Audited Financial Statements, as otherwise specifically prescribed herein.
Generally
except
(b)           .  If at any time any change in GAAP would affect the computation of any financial ratio or requirement set forth in any Loan Document, and either the Borrower or the Required Lenders shall so request, the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the Borrower shall negotiate in good faith to amend such ratio or requirement to preserve the original intent thereof in light of such change in GAAP (subject to the approval of the Required Lenders); , until so amended, (i) such ratio or requirement shall continue to be computed in accordance with GAAP prior to such change therein and (ii) the Borrower shall provide to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders financial statements and other documents required under this Agreement or as reasonably requested hereunder setting forth a reconciliation between calculations of such ratio or requirement made before and after giving effect to such change in GAAP.
Changes in GAAP
provided
that
24
1.04        .
Rounding
Any financial ratios required to be maintained by the Borrower pursuant to this Agreement shall be calculated by dividing the appropriate component by the other component, carrying the result to one place more than the number of places by which such ratio is expressed herein and rounding the result up or down to the nearest number (with a rounding-up if there is no nearest number).
1.05        .
Times of Day
Unless otherwise specified, all references herein to times of day shall be references to Eastern time (daylight or standard, as applicable).
1.06        .
Letter of Credit Amounts
Unless otherwise specified herein, the amount of a Letter of Credit at any time shall be deemed to be the stated amount of such Letter of Credit in effect at such time; , , that with respect to any Letter of Credit that, by its terms or the terms of any Issuer Document related thereto, provides for one or more automatic increases in the stated amount thereof, the amount of such Letter of Credit shall be deemed to be the maximum stated amount of such Letter of Credit after giving effect to all such increases, whether or not such maximum stated amount is in effect at such time.
provided
however
2.01        .
Committed Loans
(a)           .  Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Revolving Lender severally agrees to make revolving loans (each such loan, a "") to the Borrower from time to time, on any Business Day during the Availability Period, in an aggregate amount not to exceed at any time outstanding the amount of such Revolving Lender's Revolving Commitment; , , that after giving effect to any Committed Borrowing, (i) the Total Revolving Outstandings shall not exceed the Aggregate Revolving Commitments, and (ii) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of the Committed Revolving Loans of any Revolving Lender, plus such Revolving Lender's Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all L/C Obligations, plus such Revolving Lender's Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all Swing Line Loans shall not exceed such Revolving Lender's Revolving Commitment.  Within the limits of each Revolving Lender's Revolving Commitment, and subject to the other terms and conditions hereof, the Borrower may borrow under this , prepay under , and reborrow under this .  Committed Revolving Loans may be Base Rate Loans or Eurodollar Rate Loans, as further provided herein.
Committed Revolving Loans
Committed Revolving Loan
provided
however
Section 2.01
Section 2.06
Section 2.01
(b)           .  Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Term Lender severally agrees to make a loan (each such loan, a "") to the Borrower on the Closing Date in an amount not to exceed the amount of such Term Lender's Term Commitment. The Term Commitments are not revolving in nature, and amounts repaid in respect of Term Loans may not be reborrowed.  Term Loans may be Base Rate Loans or Eurodollar Rate Loans, as further provided herein.
Term Loans
Term Loan
25
2.02        .
Borrowings, Conversions and Continuations of Committed Loans
(a)           Each Committed Borrowing, each conversion of Committed Loans from one Type to the other, and each continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be made upon the Borrower's irrevocable notice to the Administrative Agent, which may be given by telephone.  Each such notice must be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 12:00 Noon (i) three Business Days prior to the requested date of any Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans or of any conversion of Eurodollar Rate Loans to Base Rate Committed Loans, and (ii) on the requested date of any Borrowing of Base Rate Committed Loans.  Each telephonic notice by the Borrower pursuant to this must be confirmed promptly by delivery to the Administrative Agent of a written Committed Loan Notice, appropriately completed and signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower.  Each Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $1,000,000 or a whole multiple of $100,000 in excess thereof.  Except as provided in and , each Borrowing of or conversion to Base Rate Committed Loans shall be in a principal amount of $1,000,000 or a whole multiple of $100,000 in excess thereof.
Section 2.02(a)
Sections 2.03(c)
2.04(c)
Each Committed Loan Notice (whether telephonic or written) shall specify (i) whether the Borrower is requesting a Committed Borrowing, a conversion of Committed Loans from one Type to the other, or a continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans, (ii) the requested date of the Borrowing, conversion or continuation, as the case may be (which shall be a Business Day), (iii) the principal amount of Committed Loans to be borrowed, converted or continued, (iv) the Type and Class of Committed Loans to be borrowed or to which existing Committed Loans are to be converted, and (v) if applicable, the duration of the Interest Period with respect thereto.  If the Borrower fails to specify a Type of Committed Loan in a Committed Loan Notice or if the Borrower fails to give a timely notice requesting a conversion or continuation, then the applicable Committed Loans shall be made as, or converted to, Base Rate Loans.  Any such automatic conversion to Base Rate Loans shall be effective as of the last day of the Interest Period then in effect with respect to the applicable Eurodollar Rate Loans.  If the Borrower requests a Borrowing of, conversion to, or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans in any such Committed Loan Notice, but fails to specify an Interest Period, it will be deemed to have specified an Interest Period of one month.
(b)           Following receipt of a Committed Loan Notice, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of the amount of its Applicable Percentage of the applicable Committed Loans, and if no timely notice of a conversion or continuation is provided by the Borrower, the Administrative Agent shall notify each Lender of the details of any automatic conversion to Base Rate Loans described in the preceding subsection.  In the case of a Committed Borrowing, each Lender shall make the amount of its Committed Loan available to the Administrative Agent in immediately available funds at the Administrative Agent's Office not later than 2:00 p.m. on the Business Day specified in the applicable Committed Loan Notice.  Upon satisfaction of the applicable conditions set forth in (and, if such Borrowing is the initial Credit Extension, ), the Administrative Agent shall make all funds so received available to the Borrower in like funds as received by the Administrative Agent either by (i) crediting the account of the Borrower on the books of Bank of America with the amount of such funds or (ii) wire transfer of such funds, in each case in accordance with instructions provided to (and reasonably acceptable to) the Administrative Agent by the Borrower; , , that if, on the date the Committed Loan Notice with respect to such Borrowing is given by the Borrower, there are L/C Borrowings outstanding, then the proceeds of such Borrowing, , shall be applied to the payment in full of any such L/C Borrowings and , shall be made available to the Borrower as provided above.
Section 4.02
Section 4.01
provided
however
first
second
(c)           Except as otherwise provided herein, a Eurodollar Rate Loan may be continued or converted only on the last day of an Interest Period for such Eurodollar Rate Loan.  During the existence of a Default, no Loans may be requested as, converted to or continued as Eurodollar Rate Loans without the consent of the Required Lenders.
26
(d)           The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Lenders of the interest rate applicable to any Interest Period for Eurodollar Rate Loans upon determination of such interest rate.  At any time that Base Rate Loans are outstanding, the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders of any change in Bank of America's prime rate used in determining the Base Rate promptly following the public announcement of such change.
(e)           After giving effect to all Committed Borrowings, all conversions of Committed Loans from one Type to the other, and all continuations of Committed Loans as the same Type, there shall not be more than (i) ten Interest Periods in effect with respect to all Committed Revolving Loans and (ii) ten Interest Periods in effect with respect to all Term Loans.
2.03        .
Letters of Credit
(a)           .
The Letter of Credit Commitment
(i)            Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, (A) the L/C Issuer agrees, in reliance upon the agreements of the Lenders set forth in this , (1) from time to time on any Business Day during the period from the Closing Date until the Letter of Credit Expiration Date, to issue Letters of Credit for the account of the Borrower or its Subsidiaries, and to amend Letters of Credit previously issued by it, in accordance with subsection (b) below, and (2) to honor drawings under the Letters of Credit; and (B) the Revolving Lenders severally agree to participate in Letters of Credit issued for the account of the Borrower or its Subsidiaries and any drawings thereunder; that after giving effect to any L/C Credit Extension with respect to any Letter of Credit, (x) the Total Revolving Outstandings shall not exceed the Aggregate Revolving Commitments, (y) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of the Committed Revolving Loans of any Revolving Lender, such Revolving Lender's Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all L/C Obligations, plus such Revolving Lender's Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all Swing Line Loans shall not exceed such Revolving Lender's Commitment and (z) the Outstanding Amount of the L/C Obligations shall not exceed the Letter of Credit Sublimit.  Each request by the Borrower for the issuance or amendment of a Letter of Credit shall be deemed to be a representation by the Borrower that the L/C Credit Extension so requested complies with the conditions set forth in the proviso to the preceding sentence.  Within the foregoing limits, and subject to the terms and conditions hereof, the Borrower's ability to obtain Letters of Credit shall be fully revolving, and accordingly the Borrower may, during the foregoing period, obtain Letters of Credit to replace Letters of Credit that have expired or that have been drawn upon and reimbursed.  The Existing Letters of Credit shall be deemed to have been issued hereunder, and from and after the Closing Date shall be subject to and governed by the terms and conditions hereof.
Section 2.03
provided
plus
(ii)           The L/C Issuer shall not issue any Letter of Credit, if:
(A)          the expiry date of such requested Letter of Credit would occur more than twelve months after the date of issuance, unless the Required Revolving Lenders have approved such expiry date; or
(B)           the expiry date of such requested Letter of Credit would occur after the Letter of Credit Expiration Date, unless all the Revolving Lenders have approved such expiry date.
(iii)          The L/C Issuer shall not be under any obligation to issue any Letter of Credit if:
(A)          any order, judgment or decree of any Governmental Authority or arbitrator shall by its terms purport to enjoin or restrain the L/C Issuer from issuing such Letter of Credit, or any Law applicable to the L/C Issuer or any request or directive (whether or not having the force of law) from any Governmental Authority with jurisdiction over the L/C Issuer shall prohibit, or request that the L/C Issuer refrain from, the issuance of letters of credit generally or such Letter of
27
Credit in particular or shall impose upon the L/C Issuer with respect to such Letter of Credit any restriction, reserve or capital requirement (for which the L/C Issuer is not otherwise compensated hereunder) not in effect on the Closing Date, or shall impose upon the L/C Issuer any unreimbursed loss, cost or expense which was not applicable on the Closing Date and which the L/C Issuer in good faith deems material to it;
(B)           the issuance of such Letter of Credit would violate one or more policies of the L/C Issuer;
(C)           except as otherwise agreed by the Administrative Agent and the L/C Issuer, such Letter of Credit is in an initial stated amount less than $500,000;
(D)          such Letter of Credit is to be denominated in a currency other than Dollars;
(E)           such Letter of Credit contains any provisions for automatic reinstatement of the stated amount after any drawing thereunder; or
(F)           a default of any Revolving Lender's obligations to fund under exists or any Revolving Lender is at such time a Defaulting Lender hereunder, unless the L/C Issuer has entered into satisfactory arrangements with the Borrower or such Revolving Lender to eliminate the L/C Issuer's risk with respect to such Revolving Lender.
Section 2.03(c)
(iv)          The L/C Issuer shall not amend any Letter of Credit if the L/C Issuer would not be permitted at such time to issue such Letter of Credit in its amended form under the terms hereof.
(v)           The L/C Issuer shall be under no obligation to amend any Letter of Credit if (A) the L/C Issuer would have no obligation at such time to issue such Letter of Credit in its amended form under the terms hereof, or (B) the beneficiary of such Letter of Credit does not accept the proposed amendment to such Letter of Credit.
(vi)          The L/C Issuer shall act on behalf of the Revolving Lenders with respect to any Letters of Credit issued by it and the documents associated therewith, and the L/C Issuer shall have all of the benefits and immunities (A) provided to the Administrative Agent in with respect to any acts taken or omissions suffered by the L/C Issuer in connection with Letters of Credit issued by it or proposed to be issued by it and Issuer Documents pertaining to such Letters of Credit as fully as if the term "Administrative Agent" as used in included the L/C Issuer with respect to such acts or omissions, and (B) as additionally provided herein with respect to the L/C Issuer.
Article IX
Article IX
(b)           .
Procedures for Issuance and Amendment of Letters of Credit
(i)            Each Letter of Credit shall be issued or amended, as the case may be, upon the request of the Borrower delivered to the L/C Issuer (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) in the form of a Letter of Credit Application, appropriately completed and signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower.  Such Letter of Credit Application must be received by the L/C Issuer and the Administrative Agent not later than 11:00 a.m. at least two Business Days (or such later date and time as the Administrative Agent and the L/C Issuer may agree in a particular instance in their sole discretion) prior to the proposed issuance date or date of amendment, as the case may be.  In the case of a request for an initial issuance of a Letter of Credit, such Letter of Credit Application shall specify in form and detail satisfactory to the L/C Issuer:  (A) the proposed issuance date of the requested Letter of Credit (which shall be a Business Day); (B) the amount thereof; (C) the expiry date thereof; (D) the name and address of the beneficiary thereof; (E) the documents to be presented by such beneficiary in case of any drawing thereunder; (F) the full text
28
of any certificate to be presented by such beneficiary in case of any drawing thereunder; and (G) such other matters as the L/C Issuer may require.  In the case of a request for an amendment of any outstanding Letter of Credit, such Letter of Credit Application shall specify in form and detail satisfactory to the L/C Issuer (A) the Letter of Credit to be amended; (B) the proposed date of amendment thereof (which shall be a Business Day); (C) the nature of the proposed amendment; and (D) such other matters as the L/C Issuer may require.  Additionally, the Borrower shall furnish to the L/C Issuer and the Administrative Agent such other documents and information pertaining to such requested Letter of Credit issuance or amendment, including any Issuer Documents, as the L/C Issuer or the Administrative Agent may require.
(ii)           Promptly after receipt of any Letter of Credit Application, the L/C Issuer will confirm with the Administrative Agent (by telephone or in writing) that the Administrative Agent has received a copy of such Letter of Credit Application from the Borrower and, if not, the L/C Issuer will provide the Administrative Agent with a copy thereof.  Unless the L/C Issuer has received written notice from any Revolving Lender, the Administrative Agent or the Borrower, at least one Business Day prior to the requested date of issuance or amendment of the applicable Letter of Credit, that one or more applicable conditions contained in shall not then be satisfied, then, subject to the terms and conditions hereof, the L/C Issuer shall, on the requested date, issue a Letter of Credit for the account of the Borrower (or the applicable Subsidiary) or enter into the applicable amendment, as the case may be, in each case in accordance with the L/C Issuer's usual and customary business practices.  Immediately upon the issuance of each Letter of Credit, each Revolving Lender shall be deemed to, and hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees to, purchase from the L/C Issuer a risk participation in such Letter of Credit in an amount equal to the product of such Revolving Lender's Applicable Percentage of the Aggregate Revolving Commitments the amount of such Letter of Credit.
Article IV
times
(iii)          Promptly after its delivery of any Letter of Credit or any amendment to a Letter of Credit to an advising bank with respect thereto or to the beneficiary thereof, the L/C Issuer will also deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent a true and complete copy of such Letter of Credit or amendment.
(c)           .
Drawings and Reimbursements; Funding of Participations
(i)            Upon receipt from the beneficiary of any Letter of Credit of any notice of a drawing under such Letter of Credit, the L/C Issuer shall notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent thereof.  Not later than 12:00 Noon on the date of any payment by the L/C Issuer under a Letter of Credit (each such date, an ""), the Borrower shall reimburse the L/C Issuer through the Administrative Agent in an amount equal to the amount of such drawing.  If the Borrower fails to so reimburse the L/C Issuer by such time, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Revolving Lender of the Honor Date, the amount of the unreimbursed drawing (the ""), and the amount of such Revolving Lender's Applicable Percentage thereof.  In such event, the Borrower shall be deemed to have requested a Committed Borrowing of Base Rate Committed Revolving Loans to be disbursed on the Honor Date in an amount equal to the Unreimbursed Amount, without regard to the minimum and multiples specified in for the principal amount of Base Rate Committed Revolving Loans, but subject to the amount of the unutilized portion of the Aggregate Revolving Commitments and the conditions set forth in (other than the delivery of a Committed Loan Notice).  Any notice given by the L/C Issuer or the Administrative Agent pursuant to this may be given by telephone if immediately confirmed in writing; that the lack of such an immediate confirmation shall not affect the conclusiveness or binding effect of such notice.
Honor Date
Unreimbursed Amount
Section 2.02
Section 4.02
Section 2.03(c)(i)
provided
(ii)           Each Revolving Lender shall upon any notice pursuant to make funds available to the Administrative Agent for the account of the L/C Issuer at the Administrative Agent's Office in an amount equal to its Applicable Percentage of the Unreimbursed Amount not later than 1:00 p.m.
Section 2.03(c)(i)
29
on the Business Day specified in such notice by the Administrative Agent, whereupon, subject to the provisions of , each Revolving Lender that so makes funds available shall be deemed to have made a Base Rate Committed Revolving Loan to the Borrower in such amount.  The Administrative Agent shall remit the funds so received to the L/C Issuer.
Section 2.03(c)(iii)
(iii)          With respect to any Unreimbursed Amount that is not fully refinanced by a Committed Borrowing of Base Rate Committed Revolving Loans because the conditions set forth in cannot be satisfied or for any other reason, the Borrower shall be deemed to have incurred from the L/C Issuer an L/C Borrowing in the amount of the Unreimbursed Amount that is not so refinanced, which L/C Borrowing shall be due and payable on demand (together with interest) and shall bear interest at the Default Rate.  In such event, each Revolving Lender's payment to the Administrative Agent for the account of the L/C Issuer pursuant to shall be deemed payment in respect of its participation in such L/C Borrowing and shall constitute an L/C Advance from such Revolving Lender in satisfaction of its participation obligation under this .
Section 4.02
Section 2.03(c)(ii)
Section 2.03
(iv)          Until each Revolving Lender funds its Committed Revolving Loan or L/C Advance pursuant to this to reimburse the L/C Issuer for any amount drawn under any Letter of Credit, interest in respect of such Revolving Lender's Applicable Percentage of such amount shall be solely for the account of the L/C Issuer.
Section 2.03(c)
(v)           Each Revolving Lender's obligation to make Committed Revolving Loans or L/C Advances to reimburse the L/C Issuer for amounts drawn under Letters of Credit, as contemplated by this , shall be absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance, including (A) any setoff, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other right which such Revolving Lender may have against the L/C Issuer, the Borrower or any other Person for any reason whatsoever; (B) the occurrence or continuance of a Default, or (C) any other occurrence, event or condition, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing; , , that each Revolving Lender's obligation to make Committed Revolving Loans pursuant to this is subject to the conditions set forth in (other than delivery by the Borrower of a Committed Loan Notice).  No such making of an L/C Advance shall relieve or otherwise impair the obligation of the Borrower to reimburse the L/C Issuer for the amount of any payment made by the L/C Issuer under any Letter of Credit, together with interest as provided herein.
Section 2.03(c)
provided
however
Section 2.03(c)
Section 4.02
(vi)          If any Revolving Lender fails to make available to the Administrative Agent for the account of the L/C Issuer any amount required to be paid by such Revolving Lender pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this by the time specified in , the L/C Issuer shall be entitled to recover from such Revolving Lender (acting through the Administrative Agent), on demand, such amount with interest thereon for the period from the date such payment is required to the date on which such payment is immediately available to the L/C Issuer at a rate per annum equal to the greater of the Federal Funds Rate and a rate determined by the L/C Issuer in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation, plus any administrative, processing or similar fees customarily charged by the L/C Issuer in connection with the foregoing.  If such Revolving Lender pays such amount (with interest and fees as aforesaid), the amount so paid shall constitute such Revolving Lender's Committed Revolving Loan included in the Committed Borrowing or L/C Advance in respect of the relevant L/C Borrowing, as the case may be.  A certificate of the L/C Issuer submitted to any Revolving Lender (through the Administrative Agent) with respect to any amounts owing under this clause (vi) shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
Section 2.03(c)
Section 2.03(c)(ii)
30
(d)          
Repayment of Participations.
(i)            At any time after the L/C Issuer has made a payment under any Letter of Credit and has received from any Revolving Lender such Revolving Lender's L/C Advance in respect of such payment in accordance with , if the Administrative Agent receives for the account of the L/C Issuer any payment in respect of the related Unreimbursed Amount or interest thereon (whether directly from the Borrower or otherwise, including proceeds of Cash Collateral applied thereto by the Administrative Agent), the Administrative Agent will distribute to such Revolving Lender its Applicable Percentage thereof in the same funds as those received by the Administrative Agent.
Section 2.03(c)
(ii)           If any payment received by the Administrative Agent for the account of the L/C Issuer pursuant to is required to be returned under any of the circumstances described in (including pursuant to any settlement entered into by the L/C Issuer in its discretion), each Revolving Lender shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of the L/C Issuer its Applicable Percentage thereof on demand of the Administrative Agent, plus interest thereon from the date of such demand to the date such amount is returned by such Revolving Lender, at a rate per annum equal to the Federal Funds Rate from time to time in effect.  The obligations of the Revolving Lenders under this clause shall survive the payment in full of the Obligations and the termination of this Agreement.
Section 2.03(c)(i)
Section 10.05
(e)           .  The obligation of the Borrower to reimburse the L/C Issuer for each drawing under each Letter of Credit and to repay each L/C Borrowing shall be absolute, unconditional and irrevocable, and shall be paid strictly in accordance with the terms of this Agreement under all circumstances, including the following:
Obligations Absolute
(i)            any lack of validity or enforceability of such Letter of Credit, this Agreement, or any other Loan Document;
(ii)           the existence of any claim, counterclaim, setoff, defense or other right that the Borrower or any Subsidiary may have at any time against any beneficiary or any transferee of such Letter of Credit (or any Person for whom any such beneficiary or any such transferee may be acting), the L/C Issuer or any other Person, whether in connection with this Agreement, the transactions contemplated hereby or by such Letter of Credit or any agreement or instrument relating thereto, or any unrelated transaction;
(iii)          any draft, demand, certificate or other document presented under such Letter of Credit proving to be forged, fraudulent, invalid or insufficient in any respect or any statement therein being untrue or inaccurate in any respect; or any loss or delay in the transmission or otherwise of any document required in order to make a drawing under such Letter of Credit;
(iv)          any payment by the L/C Issuer under such Letter of Credit against presentation of a draft or certificate that does not strictly comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit; or any payment made by the L/C Issuer under such Letter of Credit to any Person purporting to be a trustee in bankruptcy, debtor-in-possession, assignee for the benefit of creditors, liquidator, receiver or other representative of or successor to any beneficiary or any transferee of such Letter of Credit, including any arising in connection with any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law; or
(v)           any other circumstance or happening whatsoever, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing, including any other circumstance that might otherwise constitute a defense available to, or a discharge of, the Borrower or any Subsidiary.
31
 
The Borrower shall promptly examine a copy of each Letter of Credit and each amendment thereto that is delivered to it and, in the event of any claim of noncompliance with the Borrower's instructions or other irregularity, the Borrower will immediately notify the L/C Issuer.  The Borrower shall be conclusively deemed to have waived any such claim against the L/C Issuer and its correspondents unless such notice is given as aforesaid.
(f)            .  Each Revolving Lender and the Borrower agree that, in paying any drawing under a Letter of Credit, the L/C Issuer shall not have any responsibility to obtain any document (other than any sight draft, certificates and documents expressly required by the Letter of Credit) or to ascertain or inquire as to the validity or accuracy of any such document or the authority of the Person executing or delivering any such document.  None of the L/C Issuer, the Administrative Agent, any of their respective Related Parties nor any correspondent, participant or assignee of the L/C Issuer shall be liable to any Revolving Lender for (i) any action taken or omitted in connection herewith at the request or with the approval of the Revolving Lenders or the Required Revolving Lenders, as applicable; (ii) any action taken or omitted in the absence of gross negligence or willful misconduct; or (iii) the due execution, effectiveness, validity or enforceability of any document or instrument related to any Letter of Credit or Issuer Document.  The Borrower hereby assumes all risks of the acts or omissions of any beneficiary or transferee with respect to its use of any Letter of Credit; , , that this assumption is not intended to, and shall not, preclude the Borrower's pursuing such rights and remedies as it may have against the beneficiary or transferee at law or under any other agreement.  None of the L/C Issuer, the Administrative Agent, any of their respective Related Parties nor any correspondent, participant or assignee of the L/C Issuer shall be liable or responsible for any of the matters described in clauses (i) through (v) of ; , , that anything in such clauses to the contrary notwithstanding, the Borrower may have a claim against the L/C Issuer, and the L/C Issuer may be liable to the Borrower, to the extent, but only to the extent, of any direct, as opposed to consequential or exemplary, damages suffered by the Borrower which the Borrower proves were caused by the L/C Issuer's willful misconduct or gross negligence or the L/C Issuer's willful failure to pay under any Letter of Credit after the presentation to it by the beneficiary of a sight draft and certificate(s) strictly complying with the terms and conditions of a Letter of Credit or the L/C Issuer's payment under any Letter of Credit without presentation to it of a draft, certificates and/or other documents that substantially comply with the terms and conditions of the Letter of Credit.  In furtherance and not in limitation of the foregoing, the L/C Issuer may accept documents that appear on their face to be in order, without responsibility for further investigation, regardless of any notice or information to the contrary, and the L/C Issuer shall not be responsible for the validity or sufficiency of any instrument transferring or assigning or purporting to transfer or assign a Letter of Credit or the rights or benefits thereunder or proceeds thereof, in whole or in part, which may prove to be invalid or ineffective for any reason.
Role of L/C Issuer
provided
however
Section 2.03(e)
provided
however
(g)           .  Upon the request of the Administrative Agent, (i) if the L/C Issuer has honored any full or partial drawing request under any Letter of Credit and such drawing has resulted in an L/C Borrowing, or (ii) if, as of the Letter of Credit Expiration Date, any L/C Obligation for any reason remains outstanding, the Borrower shall, in each case, immediately Cash Collateralize the then Outstanding Amount of all L/C Obligations.  and set forth certain additional requirements to deliver Cash Collateral hereunder.  For purposes of this , and , "" means to pledge and deposit with or deliver to the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the L/C Issuer and the Revolving Lenders, as collateral for the L/C Obligations, cash or deposit account balances pursuant to documentation in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the L/C Issuer (which documents are hereby consented to by the Lenders).  The Borrower hereby grants to the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the L/C Issuer and the Revolving Lenders, a security interest in all such cash, deposit accounts and all balances therein and all proceeds of the foregoing.  Cash Collateral shall be maintained in blocked, interest bearing deposit accounts at Bank of America.
Cash Collateral
Sections 2.06
8.02(c)
Section 2.03
Section 2.06
Section 8.02(c)
Cash Collateralize
32
(h)           .  Unless otherwise expressly agreed by the L/C Issuer and the Borrower when a Letter of Credit is issued, (i) the rules of the ISP shall apply to each standby Letter of Credit, and (ii) the rules of the Uniform Customs and Practice for Documentary Credits, as most recently published by the International Chamber of Commerce at the time of issuance shall apply to each commercial Letter of Credit.
Applicability of ISP and UCP
(i)            .  The Borrower shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Revolving Lender in accordance with its Applicable Percentage a Letter of Credit fee (the "") for each Letter of Credit equal to the Applicable Rate times the daily amount available to be drawn under such Letter of Credit.  For purposes of computing the daily amount available to be drawn under any Letter of Credit, the amount of such Letter of Credit shall be determined in accordance with .  Letter of Credit Fees shall be (i) computed on a quarterly basis in arrears and (ii) due and payable on the first Business Day after the end of each calendar quarter, commencing with the first such date to occur after the issuance of such Letter of Credit, on the Letter of Credit Expiration Date and thereafter on demand.  If there is any change in the Applicable Rate during any quarter, the daily amount available to be drawn under each Letter of Credit shall be computed and multiplied by the Applicable Rate separately for each period during such quarter that such Applicable Rate was in effect.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, upon the request of the Required Lenders, while any Event of Default exists, all Letter of Credit Fees shall accrue at the Default Rate.
Letter of Credit Fees
Letter of Credit Fee
Section 1.06
(j)            .  The Borrower shall pay directly to the L/C Issuer for its own account a fronting fee per annum with respect to each Letter of Credit, equal to the greater of (i) the rate per annum of 12.5 basis points of the face amount of the Letter of Credit, in each case computed on the daily amount available to be drawn under such Letter of Credit and (ii) $1,250 per annum.  The amount of such fronting fees shall be determined on a quarterly basis in arrears, and due and payable on the first Business Day after the end of each calendar quarter, commencing with the first such date to occur after the issuance of such Letter of Credit, on the Letter of Credit Expiration Date and thereafter on demand.  For purposes of computing the daily amount available to be drawn under any Letter of Credit, the amount of such Letter of Credit shall be determined in accordance with .  In addition, the Borrower shall pay directly to the L/C Issuer for its own account the customary issuance, presentation, amendment and other processing fees, and other standard costs and charges, of the L/C Issuer relating to letters of credit as from time to time in effect.  Such customary fees and standard costs and charges are due and payable on demand and are nonrefundable.
Fronting Fee and Documentary and Processing Charges Payable to L/C Issuer
Section 1.06
(k)           .  In the event of any conflict between the terms hereof and the terms of any Issuer Document, the terms hereof shall control.
Conflict with Issuer Documents
(l)            .  Notwithstanding that a Letter of Credit issued or outstanding hereunder is in support of any obligations of, or is for the account of, a Subsidiary, the Borrower shall be obligated to reimburse the L/C Issuer hereunder for any and all drawings under such Letter of Credit.  The Borrower hereby acknowledges that the issuance of Letters of Credit for the account of Subsidiaries inures to the benefit of the Borrower, and that the Borrower's business derives substantial benefits from the businesses of such Subsidiaries.
Letters of Credit Issued for Subsidiaries
(m)          .  The L/C Issuer shall deliver to the Administrative Agent, for distribution to the Revolving Lenders, an accounting of all Letters of Credit outstanding as of the end of each fiscal quarter of the Borrower.
Outstanding Letters of Credit
33
2.04        .
Swing Line Loans
(a)           .  Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Swing Line Lender agrees, in reliance upon the agreements of the other Lenders set forth in this , to make loans (each such loan, a "") to the Borrower from time to time on any Business Day during the Availability Period in an aggregate amount not to exceed at any time outstanding the amount of the Swing Line Sublimit, notwithstanding the fact that such Swing Line Loans, when aggregated with the Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of Committed Revolving Loans and L/C Obligations of the Revolving Lender acting as Swing Line Lender, may exceed the amount of such Revolving Lender's Commitment; , , that after giving effect to any Swing Line Loan, (i) the Total Revolving Outstandings shall not exceed the Aggregate Revolving Commitments, (ii) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of the Committed Revolving Loans of any Revolving Lender, such Revolving Lender's Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all L/C Obligations, such Revolving Lender's Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all Swing Line Loans shall not exceed such Revolving Lender's Commitment, and (iii) the Borrower shall not use the proceeds of any Swing Line Loan to refinance any outstanding Swing Line Loan.  Within the foregoing limits, and subject to the other terms and conditions hereof, the Borrower may borrow under this , prepay under , and reborrow under this .  Each Swing Line Loan shall be a Base Rate Loan.  Immediately upon the making of a Swing Line Loan, each Revolving Lender shall be deemed to, and hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees to, purchase from the Swing Line Lender a risk participation in such Swing Line Loan in an amount equal to the product of such Revolving Lender's Applicable Percentage the amount of such Swing Line Loan.
The Swing Line
Section 2.04
Swing Line Loan
provided
however
plus
plus
Section 2.04
Section 2.06
Section 2.04
times
(b)           .  Each Swing Line Borrowing shall be made upon the Borrower's irrevocable notice to the Swing Line Lender and the Administrative Agent, which may be given by telephone.  Each such notice must be received by the Swing Line Lender and the Administrative Agent not later than 1:00 p.m. on the requested borrowing date, and shall specify (i) the amount to be borrowed, which shall be a minimum of $100,000, and (ii) the requested borrowing date, which shall be a Business Day.  Each such telephonic notice must be confirmed promptly by delivery to the Swing Line Lender and the Administrative Agent of a written Swing Line Loan Notice, appropriately completed and signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower.  Promptly after receipt by the Swing Line Lender of any telephonic Swing Line Loan Notice, the Swing Line Lender will confirm with the Administrative Agent (by telephone or in writing) that the Administrative Agent has also received such Swing Line Loan Notice and, if not, the Swing Line Lender will notify the Administrative Agent (by telephone or in writing) of the contents thereof.  Unless the Swing Line Lender has received notice (by telephone or in writing) from the Administrative Agent (including at the request of any Lender) prior to 2:00 p.m. on the date of the proposed Swing Line Borrowing (A) directing the Swing Line Lender not to make such Swing Line Loan as a result of the limitations set forth in the proviso to the first sentence of , or (B) that one or more of the applicable conditions specified in is not then satisfied, then, subject to the terms and conditions hereof, the Swing Line Lender will, not later than 3:00 p.m. on the borrowing date specified in such Swing Line Loan Notice, make the amount of its Swing Line Loan available to the Borrower at its office by crediting the account of the Borrower on the books of the Swing Line Lender in immediately available funds.
Borrowing Procedures
Section 2.04(a)
Article IV
(c)           .
Refinancing of Swing Line Loans
(i)            The Swing Line Lender at any time in its sole and absolute discretion may request, on behalf of the Borrower (which hereby irrevocably authorizes the Swing Line Lender to so request on its behalf), that each Revolving Lender make a Base Rate Committed Revolving Loan in an amount equal to such Revolving Lender's Applicable Percentage of the amount of Swing Line Loans then outstanding.  Such request shall be made in writing (which written request shall be deemed to be a Committed Loan
34
Notice for purposes hereof) and in accordance with the requirements of , without regard to the minimum and multiples specified therein for the principal amount of Base Rate Committed Revolving Loans, but subject to the unutilized portion of the Aggregate Revolving Commitments and the conditions set forth in .  The Swing Line Lender shall furnish the Borrower with a copy of the applicable Committed Loan Notice promptly after delivering such notice to the Administrative Agent.  Each Revolving Lender shall make an amount equal to its Applicable Percentage of the amount specified in such Committed Loan Notice available to the Administrative Agent in immediately available funds for the account of the Swing Line Lender at the Administrative Agent's Office not later than 1:00 p.m. on the day specified in such Committed Loan Notice, whereupon, subject to , each Revolving Lender that so makes funds available shall be deemed to have made a Base Rate Committed Revolving Loan to the Borrower in such amount.  The Administrative Agent shall remit the funds so received to the Swing Line Lender.
Section 2.02
Section 4.02
Section 2.04(c)(ii)
(ii)           If for any reason any Swing Line Loan cannot be refinanced by such a Base Rate Committed Revolving Loan in accordance with , the request for Base Rate Committed Revolving Loans submitted by the Swing Line Lender as set forth herein shall be deemed to be a request by the Swing Line Lender that each of the Revolving Lenders fund its risk participation in the relevant Swing Line Loan and each Revolving Lender's payment to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Swing Line Lender pursuant to shall be deemed payment in respect of such participation.
Section 2.04(c)(i)
Section 2.04(c)(i)
(iii)          If any Revolving Lender fails to make available to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Swing Line Lender any amount required to be paid by such Revolving Lender pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this by the time specified in , the Swing Line Lender shall be entitled to recover from such Revolving Lender (acting through the Administrative Agent), on demand, such amount with interest thereon for the period from the date such payment is required to the date on which such payment is immediately available to the Swing Line Lender at a rate per annum equal to the greater of the Federal Funds Rate and a rate determined by the Swing Line Lender in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation, plus any administrative, processing or similar fees customarily charged by the Swing Line Lender in connection with the foregoing.  If such Revolving Lender pays such amount (with interest and fees as aforesaid), the amount so paid shall constitute such Lender's Committed Revolving Loan included in the relevant Committed Borrowing or funded participation in the relevant Swing Line Loan, as the case may be.  A certificate of the Swing Line Lender submitted to any Lender (through the Administrative Agent) with respect to any amounts owing under this clause (iii) shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
Section 2.04(c)
Section 2.04(c)(i)
(iv)          Each Revolving Lender's obligation to make Committed Loans or to purchase and fund risk participations in Swing Line Loans pursuant to this shall be absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance, including (A) any setoff, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other right which such Revolving Lender may have against the Swing Line Lender, the Borrower or any other Person for any reason whatsoever, (B) the occurrence or continuance of a Default, or (C) any other occurrence, event or condition, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing; , , that each Revolving Lender's obligation to make Committed Loans pursuant to this is subject to the conditions set forth in .  No such funding of risk participations shall relieve or otherwise impair the obligation of the Borrower to repay Swing Line Loans, together with interest as provided herein.
Section 2.04(c)
provided
however
Section 2.04(c)
Section 4.02
(d)           .
Repayment of Participations
(i)            At any time after any Revolving Lender has purchased and funded a risk participation in a Swing Line Loan, if the Swing Line Lender receives any payment on account of such Swing Line Loan, the Swing Line Lender will distribute to such Revolving Lender its Applicable Percentage thereof in the same funds as those received by the Swing Line Lender.
35
(ii)           If any payment received by the Swing Line Lender in respect of principal or interest on any Swing Line Loan is required to be returned by the Swing Line Lender under any of the circumstances described in (including pursuant to any settlement entered into by the Swing Line Lender in its discretion), each Revolving Lender shall pay to the Swing Line Lender its Applicable Percentage thereof on demand of the Administrative Agent, plus interest thereon from the date of such demand to the date such amount is returned, at a rate per annum equal to the Federal Funds Rate.  The Administrative Agent will make such demand upon the request of the Swing Line Lender.  The obligations of the Revolving Lenders under this clause shall survive the payment in full of the Obligations and the termination of this Agreement.
Section 10.05
(e)           .  The Swing Line Lender shall be responsible for invoicing the Borrower for interest on the Swing Line Loans.  Until each Revolving Lender funds its Base Rate Committed Loan or risk participation pursuant to this to refinance such Revolving Lender's Applicable Percentage of any Swing Line Loan, interest in respect of such Applicable Percentage shall be solely for the account of the Swing Line Lender.
Interest for Account of Swing Line Lender
Section 2.04
(f)            .  The Borrower shall make all payments of principal and interest in respect of the Swing Line Loans directly to the Swing Line Lender.
Payments Directly to Swing Line Lender
2.05        .
Negotiated Rate Loans
(a)           .  Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Revolving Lender, severally and for itself alone, may (but is not obligated to) make one or more loans (each such loan, a "") to the Borrower from time to time on any Business Day during the Availability Period in an aggregate amount not to exceed at any time outstanding the amount of the Negotiated Rate Sublimit, notwithstanding the fact that such Negotiated Rate Loans, when aggregated with the Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of Committed Loans and L/C Obligations of such Lender may exceed the amount of such Lender's Commitment; , that Total Revolving Outstandings shall not exceed the Aggregate Revolving Commitments; and, , that Negotiated Rate Loans shall be available to the Borrower for periods of one day to 180 days, so long as both the corporate rating of the Borrower by S&P is BBB- or better and the senior implied rating of the Borrower by Moody's is Baa3 or better.  It is understood that should a Lender make a Negotiated Rate Loan it shall not relieve such Lender from its obligation to make its pro rata share of any future Committed Revolving Loan even if after making such Committed Revolving Loan the Outstanding Amount of Committed Revolving Loans and L/C Obligations of such Lender, together with the Outstanding Amount of its Negotiated Rate Loans, exceeds the amount such Lender's Revolving Commitment.
Negotiated Rate Loans
Negotiated Rate Loan
provided
provided
further
(b)           .  The Borrower may, from time to time, approach one or more of the Lenders to determine whether such Lender or Lenders will make one or more Negotiated Rate Loans.  The Borrower and any Lender or Lenders shall, if each of them in their sole discretion elects to do so, agree to enter into one or more Negotiated Rate Loans as part of such proposed Negotiated Rate Borrowing on mutually agreed-upon terms, including the Interest Period with respect thereto, and notify the Administrative Agent by delivering a written Negotiated Rate Loan Notice from the Borrower and the Lender or Lenders proposing to make Negotiated Rate Loans before 12 Noon on the date of the funding of such Negotiated Rate Loan, which shall be a Business Day (the "").  Such Negotiated Rate Loan Notice shall specify the amount of each Negotiated Rate Loan that such Lender or Lenders will make as part of such proposed Negotiated Rate Borrowing, the
Procedure for Negotiated Rate Loans
Negotiated Rate Funding Date
36
Negotiated Rate Funding Date, the date or dates of maturity thereof, which date or dates may not occur after the Maturity Date, the rate or rates of interest applicable thereto and all other terms thereof.  Each Negotiated Rate Loan shall be made pursuant to a Negotiated Rate Loan Notice.  In lieu of delivering the written Negotiated Rate Loan Notice described above, the Borrower may give the Administrative Agent telephonic notice of any Negotiated Rate Borrowing by the time required under this clause (a), that such telephonic notice shall be confirmed by delivery of a written Negotiated Rate Loan Notice to the Administrative Agent by no later than 2:00 p.m., on the date of such telephonic notice.
provided
(c)           .  No later than 2:00 p.m. on the Negotiated Rate Funding Date, each applicable Lender will make available to the Administrative Agent in dollars and immediately available funds at the office of the Administrative Agent at its address set forth on the signature pages hereof the Negotiated Rate Loan, if any, to be made by such Lender as part of the Negotiated Rate Borrowing to be made on such date in the manner provided above.  Upon receipt by the Administrative Agent of all such funds, the Administrative Agent shall disburse to the Borrower on such date such Negotiated Rate Loan in like funds at the Borrower's account specified in the relevant Negotiated Rate Loan Notice.  The Administrative Agent may, but shall not be required to, advance on behalf of any Lender such Lender's Negotiated Rate Loan on the date a Negotiated Rate Loan is made unless such Lender shall have notified the Administrative Agent prior to such date that it does not intend to make available such Negotiated Rate Loan on such date.  If the Administrative Agent makes such advance, the Administrative Agent shall be entitled to recover such amount on demand from the Lender on whose behalf such advance was made, and if such Lender does not pay the Administrative Agent the amount of such advance on demand, the Borrower shall promptly repay such amount to the Administrative Agent.  Until such amount is repaid to the Administrative Agent by such Lender or the Borrower, such advance shall be deemed for all purposes to be a Negotiated Rate Loan made by the Administrative Agent.  In such event, if a Lender has not in fact made its share of the applicable Negotiated Rate Loan available to the Administrative Agent, then the applicable Lender and the Borrower severally agree to pay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount in immediately available funds with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is made available to the Borrower to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at (A) in the case of a payment to be made by such Lender, the greater of the Federal Funds Rate and a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation and (B) in the case of a payment to be made by the Borrower, the interest rate applicable to Base Rate Loans.  If the Borrower and such Lender shall pay such interest to the Administrative Agent for the same or an overlapping period, the Administrative Agent shall promptly remit to the Borrower the amount of such interest paid by the Borrower for such period.  Any payment by the Borrower shall be without prejudice to any claim the Borrower may have against a Lender that shall have failed to make such payment to the Administrative Agent.
Funding of Negotiated Rate Loans
2.06        .
Prepayments
(a)           The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrative Agent, at any time or from time to time, voluntarily prepay Committed Loans in whole or in part without premium or penalty; that (i) such notice must be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 11:00 a.m. (A) three Business Days prior to any date of prepayment of Eurodollar Rate Loans and (B) on the date of prepayment of Base Rate Committed Loans; (ii) any prepayment of Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $1,000,000 or a whole multiple of $100,000 in excess thereof; and (iii) any prepayment of Base Rate Committed Loans shall be in a principal amount of $1,000,000 or a whole multiple of $100,000 in excess thereof or, in each case, if less, the entire principal amount thereof then outstanding.  Each such notice shall specify the date and amount of such prepayment and the Class(es) and Type(s) of Committed Loans to be prepaid.  The Administrative Agent will promptly notify each Lender of the relevant Class of its receipt of each such notice, and of the amount of such Lender's Applicable Percentage of such
provided
37
prepayment.  If such notice is given by the Borrower, the Borrower shall make such prepayment and the payment amount specified in such notice shall be due and payable on the date specified therein.  Any prepayment of a Eurodollar Rate Loan shall be accompanied by all accrued interest on the amount prepaid, together with any additional amounts required pursuant to .  Each prepayment shall be made ratably among the Lenders of the relevant Class in accordance with the Applicable Percentages.  Any prepayment of Term Loans pursuant to this shall be applied in a manner consistent with .
Section 3.05
Section 2.06(a)
Section 2.08(c)
(b)           The Borrower may, upon notice to the Swing Line Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), at any time or from time to time, voluntarily prepay Swing Line Loans in whole or in part without premium or penalty; that (i) such notice must be received by the Swing Line Lender and the Administrative Agent not later than 1:00 p.m. on the date of the prepayment, and (ii) any such prepayment shall be in a minimum principal amount of $100,000.  Each such notice shall specify the date and amount of such prepayment.  If such notice is given by the Borrower, the Borrower shall make such prepayment and the payment amount specified in such notice shall be due and payable on the date specified therein.
provided
(c)           The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrative Agent, at any time or from time to time voluntarily prepay Negotiated Rate Loans in whole or in part without premium or penalty (unless the Borrower and the applicable Lender have otherwise agreed, in which case such Loan may be prepaid in accordance with such agreement); that (i) such notice must be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 11:00 a.m. on the requested date of prepayment of such Negotiated Rate Loans; (ii) the Lender or Lenders making the Negotiated Rate Loan have consented to such prepayment; and (iii) unless agreed to by the applicable Lender and the Administrative Agent (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld), any prepayment of Negotiated Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $500,000 or a whole multiple of $100,000 in excess thereof or, if less, the entire principal amount thereof then outstanding. Each such notice shall specify the date and amount of such prepayment.  The Administrative Agent will promptly notify each applicable Lender of its receipt of each such notice, and of the amount of such Lender's Applicable Percentage of such prepayment.  If such notice is given by the Borrower, the Borrower shall make such prepayment and the payment amount specified in such notice shall be due and payable on the date specified therein.  Any prepayment of a Negotiated Rate Loan shall be accompanied by all accrued interest on the amount prepaid, together with any additional amounts as may be agreed to by the Borrower and the Lender or Lenders making such Negotiated Rate Loan.
provided
(d)           If for any reason (i) the Total Revolving Outstandings at any time exceed the Aggregate Revolving Commitments then in effect, (ii) the L/C Obligations at any time exceed the Letter of Credit Sublimit then in effect, (iii) the Swing Line Loans outstanding at any time exceed the Swing Line Sublimit then in effect or (iv) the Negotiated Rate Loans outstanding at any time exceed the Negotiated Rate Sublimit then in effect, the Borrower shall immediately prepay Committed Revolving Loans and/or Cash Collateralize the L/C Obligations in an aggregate amount equal to such excess; , , that the Borrower shall not be required to Cash Collateralize the L/C Obligations pursuant to this unless after the prepayment in full of the Committed Revolving Loans, the Swing Line Loans and the Negotiated Rate Loans, the Total Revolving Outstandings exceed the Aggregate Revolving Commitments then in effect.
provided
however
Section 2.06(d)(i)
(e)           Within three Business Days after any Net Cash Proceeds are received by the Borrower or any Subsidiary in respect of (i) any Disposition; or (ii) any Casualty Event, the Borrower shall after application of any amounts required to be applied pursuant to the Bridge Loan Agreement (as in effect on the Closing Date), prepay Term Loans in the order provided in , in an aggregate amount equal to (x) 50% of such Net Cash Proceeds, and (y) the remainder of such Net Cash Proceeds not reinvested by the Borrower or the relevant Subsidiary within 180 days of such Disposition or Casualty Event, in each case less any portion of such proceeds that must be distributed to maintain the Borrower's status as a REIT.
Section 2.08(c)
38
(other than an issuance of debt (i) in an aggregate amount up to $1,000,000 per annum for issuances of debt not covered by the following clauses (ii) and (iii); (ii) to refinance existing purchase money financing, up to the amount then outstanding under such existing financing, or (iii) to provide mortgage financing for the acquisition of new properties up to an aggregate amount in any 12-month period of $50,000,000), the Borrower shall, after application of any amounts required to be applied pursuant to the Bridge Loan Agreement (as in effect on the Closing Date), prepay Term Loans in the order provided in , in an aggregate amount equal to 100% of such Net Cash Proceeds.
(f)            Within three Business Days after any Net Cash Proceeds are received by the Borrower or any Subsidiary in respect of any issuance of debt after the Closing Date
Section 2.08(c)
(g)           Within three Business Days after any Net Cash Proceeds are received by the Borrower or any Subsidiary in respect of any Public Equity Issuance or equity contribution after the Closing Date, the Borrower shall, after application of any amounts required to be applied pursuant to the Bridge Loan Agreement (as in effect on the Closing Date), prepay Term Loans in the order provided in , in an aggregate amount equal to 50% of such Net Cash Proceeds
Section 2.08(c)
2.07        .
Termination or Reduction of Commitments
(a)           Unless previously terminated, (i) the Term Commitments will terminate on the earlier of (A) the Closing Date immediately after the closing hereunder and (B) October 31, 2006 if the Closing Date has not occurred on or before such date, and (ii) the Revolving Commitments will terminate on the Revolving Maturity Date.
(b)           The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrative Agent, terminate the Aggregate Revolving Commitments, or from time to time permanently reduce the Aggregate Revolving Commitments; that (i) any such notice shall be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 12:00 Noon five Business Days prior to the date of termination or reduction, (ii) any such partial reduction shall be in an aggregate amount of $5,000,000 or any whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof, (iii) the Borrower shall not terminate or reduce the Aggregate Revolving Commitments if, after giving effect thereto and to any concurrent prepayments hereunder, (A) the Total Revolving Outstandings would exceed the Aggregate Revolving Commitments, (B) the Outstanding Amount of Letters of Credit would exceed the Letter of Credit Sublimit, (C) the Outstanding Amount of Swing Line Loans would exceed the Swing Line Sublimit or (D) the Outstanding Amount of Negotiated Rate Loans would exceed the Negotiated Rate Sublimit.  The Administrative Agent will promptly notify the Revolving Lenders of any such notice of termination or reduction of the Aggregate Revolving Commitments.  Any reduction of the Aggregate Revolving Commitments shall be applied to the Revolving Commitment of each Revolving Lender according to its Applicable Percentage.  All fees accrued until the effective date of any termination of the Aggregate Revolving Commitments shall be paid on the effective date of such termination.
provided
2.08        .
Repayment
(a)           The Borrower shall repay to the Revolving Lenders on the Revolving Maturity Date, unless accelerated sooner pursuant to , the entire outstanding principal balance of all Committed Revolving Loans, Swing Line Loans, Negotiated Rate Loans and all L/C Obligations, together with accrued but unpaid interest, fees and all other sums with respect thereto.
Section 8.02
39
(b)           The Borrower shall repay to the Term Lenders on the Term Loan Maturity Date, unless accelerated sooner pursuant to , the entire outstanding principal balance of all Term Loans, together with accrued but unpaid interest, fees and all other sums owing with respect thereto. Subject to adjustment pursuant to and , on the last Business Day of each fiscal quarter of the Borrower, the Borrower shall repay Term Loans in an aggregate amount equal to the amount set forth below opposite the last day of such fiscal quarter:
Section 8.02
Section 2.06(a)
2.08(c)
 
(c)           Any prepayment of Term Loans pursuant to , , or shall be applied, , pro rata to the each of the remaining installments of the Term Loans under subsection (b) above due prior to the Term Loan Maturity Date; and, , to reduce the remaining aggregate principal amount of the Term Loans.
Section 2.06(a)
(e)
(f)
(g)
first
second
(d)           The Borrower shall repay each Swing Line Loan on the earlier to occur of (i) the date five Business Days after such Loan is made and (ii) the Revolving Maturity Date.
2.09        .
Interest
(a)           .  Subject to the provisions of subsection (b) below, (i) each Eurodollar Rate Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof for each Interest Period at a rate per annum equal to the Eurodollar Rate for such Interest Period plus the Applicable Rate; (ii) each Base Rate Committed Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof from the applicable borrowing date at a rate per annum equal to the Base Rate the Applicable Rate; (iii) each Swing Line Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof from the applicable borrowing date at a rate per annum equal to the Base Rate the Applicable Rate and (iv) each Negotiated Rate Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof for each Interest Period at a rate per annum equal to the amount agreed to between the Borrower and the Lender as set forth in the Negotiated Rate Loan Notice.
Applicable Interest
plus
plus
(b)           .
Default Interest
(i)            If any amount of principal of any Loan is not paid when due (without regard to any applicable grace periods), whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, such amount shall thereafter bear interest at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws.
(ii)           If any amount (other than principal of any Loan) payable by the Borrower under any Loan Document is not paid when due (without regard to any applicable grace periods), whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, then upon the request of the Required Lenders, such amount shall thereafter bear interest at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws.
40
(iii)          Upon the request of the Required Lenders, while any Event of Default exists, the Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of all outstanding Obligations hereunder at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws.
(iv)          Accrued and unpaid interest on past due amounts (including interest on past due interest) shall be due and payable upon demand.
(c)           .  Interest on each Loan shall be due and payable in arrears on each Interest Payment Date applicable thereto and at such other times as may be specified herein.  Interest hereunder shall be due and payable in accordance with the terms hereof before and after judgment, and before and after the commencement of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law.
Interest Payment Date
2.10        .
Fees
In addition to certain fees described in subsections (i) and (j) of :
Section 2.03
(a)           .  The Borrower shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Revolving Lender in accordance with its Applicable Percentage, a facility fee equal to the Facility Fee Rate the actual daily amount of the Aggregate Revolving Commitments (or, if the Aggregate Revolving Commitments have terminated, on the Outstanding Amount of all Committed Revolving Loans, Swing Line Loans, Negotiated Rate Loans and L/C Obligations), regardless of usage.  The facility fee shall accrue at all times during the Availability Period (and thereafter so long as any Committed Revolving Loans, Swing Line Loans, Negotiated Rate Loans or L/C Obligations remain outstanding), including at any time during which one or more of the conditions in is not met, and shall be due and payable quarterly in arrears (calculated on a 360-day basis) on the last Business Day of each calendar quarter, commencing with the first such date to occur after the Closing Date, and on the Revolving Maturity Date (and, if applicable, thereafter on demand).  The facility fee shall be calculated quarterly in arrears, and if there is any change in the Facility Fee Rate during any quarter, the actual daily amount shall be computed and multiplied by the Facility Fee Rate separately for each period during such quarter that such Facility Fee Rate was in effect.
Facility Fee
times
Article IV
(b)           .
Other Fees
(i)            The Borrower shall pay to the Arrangers and the Administrative Agent for their own respective accounts fees in the amounts and at the times specified in the Fee Letter.  Such fees shall be fully earned when paid and shall not be refundable for any reason whatsoever.
(ii)           The Borrower shall pay to the Lenders such fees as shall have been separately agreed upon in writing in the amounts and at the times so specified.  Such fees shall be fully earned when paid and shall not be refundable for any reason whatsoever.
2.11        .
Computation of Interest and Fees
All computations of interest for Base Rate Loans when the Base Rate is determined by Bank of America's "prime rate" shall be made on the basis of a year of 365 or 366 days, as the case may be, and actual days elapsed.  All other computations of fees and interest shall be made on the basis of a 360-day year and actual days elapsed (which results in more fees or interest, as applicable, being paid than if computed on the basis of a 365-day year).  Interest shall accrue on each Loan for the day on which the Loan is made, and shall not accrue on a Loan, or any portion thereof, for the day on which the Loan or such portion is paid, that any Loan that is repaid on the same day on which it is made shall, subject to , bear interest for one day.  Each determination by the Administrative Agent of an interest rate or fee hereunder shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
provided
Section 2.13(a)
41
2.12        .
Evidence of Debt
(a)           The Credit Extensions made by each Lender shall be evidenced by one or more accounts or records maintained by such Lender and by the Administrative Agent in the ordinary course of business.  The accounts or records maintained by the Administrative Agent and each Lender shall be conclusive absent manifest error of the amount of the Credit Extensions made by the Lenders to the Borrower and the interest and payments thereon.  Any failure to so record or any error in doing so shall not, however, limit or otherwise affect the obligation of the Borrower hereunder to pay any amount owing with respect to the Obligations.  In the event of any conflict between the accounts and records maintained by any Lender and the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent in respect of such matters, the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent shall control in the absence of manifest error.  Upon the request of any Lender made through the Administrative Agent, the Borrower shall execute and deliver to such Lender (through the Administrative Agent) a Note, which shall evidence such Lender's Loans in addition to such accounts or records.  Each Lender may attach schedules to its Note and endorse thereon the date, Type (if applicable), amount and maturity of its Loans and payments with respect thereto.
(b)           In addition to the accounts and records referred to in subsection (a), each Lender and the Administrative Agent shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice accounts or records evidencing the purchases and sales by such Lender of participations in Letters of Credit and Swing Line Loans.  In the event of any conflict between the accounts and records maintained by the Administrative Agent and the accounts and records of any Lender in respect of such matters, the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent shall control in the absence of manifest error.
2.13        .
Payments Generally; Administrative Agent's Clawback
(a)           .  All payments to be made by the Borrower shall be made without condition or deduction for any counterclaim, defense, recoupment or setoff.  Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all payments by the Borrower hereunder shall be made to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the respective Lenders to which such payment is owed, at the Administrative Agent's Office in Dollars and in immediately available funds not later than 2:00 p.m. on the date specified herein.  The Administrative Agent will promptly distribute to each Lender its Applicable Percentage (or other applicable share as provided herein) of such payment in like funds as received by wire transfer to such Lender's Lending Office.  All payments received by the Administrative Agent after 2:00 p.m. shall be deemed received on the next succeeding Business Day and any applicable interest or fee shall continue to accrue.  If any payment to be made by the Borrower shall come due on a day other than a Business Day, payment shall be made on the next following Business Day, and such extension of time shall be reflected in computing interest or fees, as the case may be.
General
(b)           (i)  .  Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the proposed date of any Committed Borrowing of Eurodollar Rate Loans (or, in the case of any Committed Borrowing of Base Rate Loans, prior to 12:00 noon on the date of such Committed Borrowing) that such Lender will not make available to the Administrative Agent such Lender's share of such Committed Borrowing, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender has made such share available on such date in accordance with (or, in the case of a Committed Borrowing of Base Rate Loans, that such Lender has made such share available in accordance with and at the time required by ) and may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Borrower a corresponding amount.  In such
Funding by Lenders; Presumption by Administrative Agent
Section 2.02
Section 2.02
42
event, if a Lender has not in fact made its share of the applicable Committed Borrowing available to the Administrative Agent, then the applicable Lender and the Borrower severally agree to pay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount in immediately available funds with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is made available to the Borrower to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at (A) in the case of a payment to be made by such Lender, the greater of the Federal Funds Rate and a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation, plus any administrative, processing or similar fees customarily charged by the Administrative Agent in connection with the foregoing, and (B) in the case of a payment to be made by the Borrower, the interest rate applicable to Base Rate Loans.  If the Borrower and such Lender shall pay such interest to the Administrative Agent for the same or an overlapping period, the Administrative Agent shall promptly remit to the Borrower the amount of such interest paid by the Borrower for such period.  If such Lender pays its share of the applicable Committed Borrowing to the Administrative Agent, then the amount so paid shall constitute such Lender's Committed Loan included in such Committed Borrowing.  Any payment by the Borrower shall be without prejudice to any claim the Borrower may have against a Lender that shall have failed to make such payment to the Administrative Agent.
(ii)           .  Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from the Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders or the L/C Issuer hereunder that the Borrower will not make such payment, the Administrative Agent may assume that the Borrower has made such payment on such date in accordance herewith and may, in reliance upon such assumption, distribute to the Lenders or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, the amount due.  In such event, if the Borrower has not in fact made such payment, then each of the Lenders or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, severally agrees to repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand the amount so distributed to such Lender or the L/C Issuer, in immediately available funds with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is distributed to it to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at the greater of the Federal Funds Rate and a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation.
Payments by the Borrower; Presumptions by Administrative Agent
A notice of the Administrative Agent to any Lender or the Borrower with respect to any amount owing under this subsection (b) shall be conclusive, absent manifest error.
(c)           .  If any Lender makes available to the Administrative Agent funds for any Loan to be made by such Lender as provided in the foregoing provisions of this , and such funds are not made available to the Borrower by the Administrative Agent because the conditions to the applicable Credit Extension set forth in are not satisfied or waived in accordance with the terms hereof, the Administrative Agent shall return such funds (in like funds as received from such Lender) to such Lender, without interest.
Failure to Satisfy Conditions Precedent
Article II
Article IV
(d)           .  The obligations of the Lenders hereunder to make Committed Loans, to fund participations in Letters of Credit and Swing Line Loans and to make payments pursuant to are several and not joint.  The failure of any Lender to make any Committed Loan, to fund any such participation or to make any payment under on any date required hereunder shall not relieve any other Lender of its corresponding obligation to do so on such date, and no Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to so make its Committed Loan, to purchase its participation or to make its payment under .
Obligations of Lenders Several
Section 10.04(c)
Section 10.04(c)
Section 10.04(c)
(e)           .  Nothing herein shall be deemed to obligate any Lender to obtain the funds for any Loan in any particular place or manner or to constitute a representation by any Lender that it has obtained or will obtain the funds for any Loan in any particular place or manner.
Funding Source
43
2.14        .
Sharing of Payments by Lenders
If any Lender shall, by exercising any right of setoff or counterclaim or otherwise, obtain payment in respect of any principal of or interest on any of the Committed Loans made by it, or the participations in L/C Obligations or in Swing Line Loans held by it resulting in such Lender's receiving payment of a proportion of the aggregate amount of such Committed Loans or participations and accrued interest thereon greater than its share thereof as provided herein, then the Lender receiving such greater proportion shall (a) notify the Administrative Agent of such fact, and (b) purchase (for cash at face value) participations in the Committed Loans and subparticipations in L/C Obligations and Swing Line Loans of the other Lenders, or make such other adjustments as shall be equitable, so that the benefit of all such payments shall be shared by the Lenders ratably in accordance with the aggregate amount of principal of and accrued interest on their respective Committed Loans and other amounts owing them, that:
pro
rata
provided
(i)            if any such participations or subparticipations are purchased and all or any portion of the payment giving rise thereto is recovered, such participations or subparticipations shall be rescinded and the purchase price restored to the extent of such recovery, without interest; and
(ii)           the provisions of this Section shall not be construed to apply to (x) any payment made by the Borrower pursuant to and in accordance with the express terms of this Agreement or (y) any payment obtained by a Lender as consideration for the assignment of or sale of a participation in any of its Committed Loans or subparticipations in L/C Obligations or Swing Line Loans to any assignee or participant, other than to the Borrower or any Subsidiary thereof (as to which the provisions of this Section shall apply).
Each Loan Party consents to the foregoing and agrees, to the extent it may effectively do so under applicable law, that any Lender acquiring a participation pursuant to the foregoing arrangements may exercise against such Loan Party rights of setoff and counterclaim with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were a direct creditor of such Loan Party in the amount of such participation.
2.15        .
Extension of Maturity Date
No earlier than 90 days prior to the Initial Maturity Date and no later than 60 days prior to the Initial Maturity Date, the Borrower may request a one-time twelve month extension of the Revolving Maturity Date to the first anniversary of the Initial Maturity Date.  Subsequent to such request from the Borrower, the Revolving Maturity Date shall be extended to the first anniversary of the Initial Maturity Date upon satisfaction of the following conditions:  (a) no Default or Event of Default shall exist at the time of the request or on the Initial Maturity Date and (b) the Borrower shall pay to the Revolving Lenders on the Initial Maturity Date a fee (to be shared among the Revolving Lenders based upon their share of the Aggregate Revolving Commitments) equal to the product of (i) 0.15% multiplied by (ii) the then Aggregate Revolving Commitments.
pro
rata
2.16        .
Increase in Commitments
(a)           .  From time to time, the Borrower shall have the right to increase the Aggregate Revolving Commitments; that (i) no Default or Event of Default exists and is continuing, (ii) each increase must be in a minimum amount of $10,000,000 and in integral multiples of $5,000,000 in excess thereof, and (iii) the Aggregate Revolving Commitments cannot be increased to an amount in excess of $1,500,000,000.  At the time of sending such notice, the Borrower (in consultation with the Administrative Agent) shall specify the time period within which each Revolving Lender is requested to respond (which shall in no event be less than ten Business Days from the date of delivery of such notice to the Revolving Lenders).
Request for Increase
provided
44
(b)           .  Each Revolving Lender shall notify the Administrative Agent within such time period whether or not it agrees to increase its Revolving Commitment and, if so, whether by an amount equal to, greater than, or less than its Applicable Percentage of such requested increase.  Any Revolving Lender not responding within such time period shall be deemed to have declined to increase its Revolving Commitment.  Any such increase shall be syndicated on a best efforts basis and no Lender shall be required to increase its Revolving Commitment to facilitate such increase.
Lender Elections to Increase
(c)           .  The Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and each Revolving Lender of the Revolving Lenders' responses to each request made hereunder.  To achieve the full amount of a requested increase and subject to the approval of the Administrative Agent and the L/C Issuer (which approvals shall not be unreasonably withheld), the Borrower may also invite additional Eligible Assignees to become Revolving Lenders pursuant to a joinder agreement in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and its counsel.
Notification by Administrative Agent; Additional Lenders
(d)           .  If the Aggregate Revolving Commitments are increased in accordance with this Section, the Administrative Agent and the Borrower shall determine the effective date (the "") and the final allocation of such increase.  The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Revolving Lenders of the final allocation of such increase and the Increase Effective Date.
Effective Date and Allocations
Increase Effective Date
(e)           .  As a condition precedent to such increase, the Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent a certificate of the Borrower dated as of the Increase Effective Date (in sufficient copies for each Revolving Lender) signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower (i) certifying and attaching the resolutions adopted by the Borrower approving or consenting to such increase, and (ii) certifying that, before and after giving effect to such increase, (A) the representations and warranties contained in and the other Loan Documents are true and correct on and as of the Increase Effective Date, except to the extent that such representations and warranties specifically refer to an earlier date, in which case they are true and correct as of such earlier date, and except that for purposes of this Section, the representations and warranties contained in subsections (a) and (b) of shall be deemed to refer to the most recent statements furnished pursuant to clauses (a) and (b), respectively, of , and (B) no Default exists.  The Borrower shall prepay any Committed Revolving Loans outstanding on the Increase Effective Date (and pay any additional amounts required pursuant to ) to the extent necessary to keep the outstanding Committed Revolving Loans ratable with any revised Applicable Percentages arising from any nonratable increase in the Commitments under this Section and shall provide a Note to any new Revolving Lender joining in the Increase Effective Date, if requested.
Conditions to Effectiveness of Increase
Article V
Section 5.05
Section 6.01
Section 3.05
(f)            .  This Section shall supersede any provisions in or to the contrary.
Conflicting Provisions
Sections 2.14
10.01
(g)           .  The Borrower shall pay such fees to the Administrative Agent, for its own account and for the benefit of the Revolving Lenders providing such additional Commitments, as determined at the time of such increase.
Fees
45
3.01        .
Taxes
(a)           .  Any and all payments by or on account of any obligation of the Loan Parties hereunder or under any other Loan Document shall be made free and clear of and without reduction or withholding for any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes, that if the Loan Parties shall be required by applicable law to deduct any Indemnified Taxes (including any Other Taxes) from such payments, then (i) the sum payable shall be increased as necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section) the Administrative Agent, Lender or L/C Issuer, as the case may be, receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) the applicable Loan Party shall make such deductions and (iii) the applicable Loan Party shall timely pay the full amount deducted to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
Payments Free of Taxes
provided
(b)           .  Without limiting the provisions of subsection (a) above, the Borrower shall timely pay any Other Taxes to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
Payment of Other Taxes by the Borrower
(c)           .  The Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent, each Lender and the L/C Issuer, within 10 days after demand therefor, for the full amount of any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes (including Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes imposed or asserted on or attributable to amounts payable under this Section) paid by the Administrative Agent, such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, and any penalties, interest and reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority.  A certificate as to the amount of such payment delivered to the Borrower by a Lender or the L/C Issuer (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), or by the Administrative Agent on its own behalf or on behalf of a Lender or the L/C Issuer, shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
Indemnification by the Borrower
(d)           .  As soon as practicable after any payment of Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes by the Borrower to a Governmental Authority, the Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing such payment, a copy of the return reporting such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
Evidence of Payments
(e)           .  Any Foreign Lender that is entitled to an exemption from or reduction of withholding tax under the law of the jurisdiction in which the Borrower is resident for tax purposes, or any treaty to which such jurisdiction is a party, with respect to payments hereunder or under any other Loan Document shall deliver to the Borrower (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), at the time or times prescribed by applicable law or reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, such properly completed and executed documentation prescribed by applicable law as will permit such payments to be made without withholding or at a reduced rate of withholding.  In addition, any Lender, if requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, shall deliver such other documentation prescribed by applicable law or reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent as will enable the Borrower or the Administrative Agent to determine whether or not such Lender is subject to backup withholding or information reporting requirements.
Status of Lenders
46
Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, in the event that the Borrower is resident for tax purposes in the United States, any Foreign Lender shall deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent (in such number of copies as shall be requested by the recipient) on or prior to the date on which such Foreign Lender becomes a Lender under this Agreement (and from time to time thereafter upon the request of the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, but only if such Foreign Lender is legally entitled to do so), whichever of the following is applicable:
(i)            duly completed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN claiming eligibility for benefits of an income tax treaty to which the United States is a party,
(ii)           duly completed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8ECI,
(iii)          in the case of a Foreign Lender claiming the benefits of the exemption for portfolio interest under section 881(c) of the Code, (x) a certificate to the effect that such Foreign Lender is not (A) a "bank" within the meaning of section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code, (B) a "10 percent shareholder" of the Borrower within the meaning of section 881(c)(3)(B) of the Code, or (C) a "controlled foreign corporation" described in section 881(c)(3)(C) of the Code and (y) duly completed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN, or
(iv)          any other form prescribed by applicable law as a basis for claiming exemption from or a reduction in United States Federal withholding tax duly completed together with such supplementary documentation as may be prescribed by applicable law to permit the Borrower to determine the withholding or deduction required to be made.
(f)            .  If the Administrative Agent, any Lender or the L/C Issuer determines, in its sole discretion, that it has received a refund of any Taxes or Other Taxes as to which it has been indemnified by the Borrower or with respect to which the Borrower has paid additional amounts pursuant to this Section, it shall pay to the Borrower an amount equal to such refund (but only to the extent of indemnity payments made, or additional amounts paid, by the Borrower under this Section with respect to the Taxes or Other Taxes giving rise to such refund), net of all out-of-pocket expenses of the Administrative Agent, such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, and without interest (other than any interest paid by the relevant Governmental Authority with respect to such refund), that the Borrower, upon the request of the Administrative Agent, such Lender or the L/C Issuer, agrees to repay the amount paid over to the Borrower (plus any penalties, interest or other charges imposed by the relevant Governmental Authority) to the Administrative Agent, such Lender or the L/C Issuer in the event the Administrative Agent, such Lender or the L/C Issuer is required to repay such refund to such Governmental Authority.  This subsection shall not be construed to require the Administrative Agent, any Lender or the L/C Issuer to make available its tax returns (or any other information relating to its taxes that it deems confidential) to the Borrower or any other Person.
Treatment of Certain Refunds
provided
3.02        .
Illegality
If any Lender determines that any Law has made it unlawful, or that any Governmental Authority has asserted that it is unlawful, for any Lender or its applicable Lending Office to make, maintain or fund Eurodollar Rate Loans, or to determine or charge interest rates based upon the Eurodollar Rate, or any Governmental Authority has imposed material restrictions on the authority of such Lender to purchase or sell, or to take deposits of, Dollars in the London interbank market, then, on notice thereof by such Lender to the Borrower through the Administrative Agent, any obligation of such Lender to make or continue Eurodollar Rate Loans or to convert Base Rate Committed Loans to Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be suspended until such Lender notifies the Administrative Agent and the Borrower that the circumstances giving rise to such determination no longer exist.  Upon receipt of such notice, the Borrower shall, upon
47
demand from such Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), prepay or, if applicable, convert all Eurodollar Rate Loans of such Lender to Base Rate Loans, either on the last day of the Interest Period therefor, if such Lender may lawfully continue to maintain such Eurodollar Rate Loans to such day, or immediately, if such Lender may not lawfully continue to maintain such Eurodollar Rate Loans.  Upon any such prepayment or conversion, the Borrower shall also pay accrued interest on the amount so prepaid or converted.
3.03        .
Inability to Determine Rates
If the Required Lenders determine that for any reason in connection with any request for a Eurodollar Rate Loan or a conversion to or continuation thereof that (a) Dollar deposits are not being offered to banks in the London interbank eurodollar market for the applicable amount and Interest Period of such Eurodollar Rate Loan, (b) adequate and reasonable means do not exist for determining the Eurodollar Rate for any requested Interest Period with respect to a proposed Eurodollar Rate Loan, or (c) the Eurodollar Rate for any requested Interest Period with respect to a proposed Eurodollar Rate Loan does not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Lenders of funding such Loan, the Administrative Agent will promptly so notify the Borrower and each Lender.  Thereafter, the obligation of the Lenders to make or maintain Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be suspended until the Administrative Agent (upon the instruction of the Required Lenders) revokes such notice.  Upon receipt of such notice, the Borrower may revoke any pending request for a Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans or, failing that, will be deemed to have converted such request into a request for a Committed Borrowing of Base Rate Loans in the amount specified therein.
3.04        .
Increased Costs; Reserves on Eurodollar Rate Loans
(a)           .  If any Change in Law shall:
Increased Costs Generally
(i)            impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve, special deposit, compulsory loan, insurance charge or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended or participated in by, any Lender (except any reserve requirement contemplated by ) or the L/C Issuer;
Section 3.04(e)
(ii)           subject any Lender or the L/C Issuer to any tax of any kind whatsoever with respect to this Agreement, any Letter of Credit, any participation in a Letter of Credit or any Eurodollar Loan made by it, or change the basis of taxation of payments to such Lender or the L/C Issuer in respect thereof (except for Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes covered by and the imposition of, or any change in the rate of, any Excluded Tax payable by such Lender or the L/C Issuer); or
Section 3.01
(iii)          impose on any Lender or the L/C Issuer or the London interbank market any other condition, cost or expense affecting this Agreement or Eurodollar Loans made by such Lender or any Letter of Credit or participation therein;
and the result of any of the foregoing shall be to increase the cost to such Lender of making or maintaining any Eurodollar Loan (or of maintaining its obligation to make any such Loan), or to increase the cost to such Lender or the L/C Issuer of participating in, issuing or maintaining any Letter of Credit (or of maintaining its obligation to participate in or to issue any Letter of Credit), or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by such Lender or the L/C Issuer hereunder (whether of principal, interest or any other amount) then, upon request of such Lender or the L/C Issuer, the Borrower will pay to such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, for such additional costs incurred or reduction suffered.
48
(b)           .  If any Lender or the L/C Issuer determines that any Change in Law affecting such Lender or the L/C Issuer or any Lending Office of such Lender or such Lender's or the L/C Issuer's holding company, if any, regarding capital requirements has or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lender's or the L/C Issuer's capital or on the capital of such Lender's or the L/C Issuer's holding company, if any, as a consequence of this Agreement, the Commitments of such Lender or the Loans made by, or participations in Letters of Credit held by, such Lender, or the Letters of Credit issued by the L/C Issuer, to a level below that which such Lender or the L/C Issuer or such Lender's or the L/C Issuer's holding company could have achieved but for such Change in Law (taking into consideration such Lender's or the L/C Issuer's policies and the policies of such Lender's or the L/C Issuer's holding company with respect to capital adequacy), then from time to time the Borrower will pay to such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or the L/C Issuer or such Lender's or the L/C Issuer's holding company for any such reduction suffered.
Capital Requirements
(c)           .  A certificate of a Lender or the L/C Issuer setting forth the amount or amounts necessary to compensate such Lender or the L/C Issuer or its holding company, as the case may be, as specified in subsection (a) or (b) of this Section and delivered to the Borrower, in detail sufficient to enable the Borrower to verify the computation thereof, shall be conclusive absent manifest error.  The Borrower shall pay such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof.
Certificates for Reimbursement
(d)           .  Failure or delay on the part of any Lender or the L/C Issuer to demand compensation pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section shall not constitute a waiver of such Lender's or the L/C Issuer's right to demand such compensation, that the Borrower shall not be required to compensate a Lender or the L/C Issuer pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section for any increased costs incurred or reductions suffered more than nine months prior to the date that such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, notifies the Borrower of the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions and of such Lender's or the L/C Issuer's intention to claim compensation therefor (except that, if the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions is retroactive, then the nine month period referred to above shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof).
Delay in Requests
provided
(e)           .  The Borrower shall pay to each Lender, as long as such Lender shall be required to maintain reserves with respect to liabilities or assets consisting of or including Eurocurrency funds or deposits (currently known as "Eurocurrency liabilities"), additional interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Eurodollar Rate Loan equal to the actual costs of such reserves allocated to such Loan by such Lender (as determined by such Lender in good faith, which determination shall be conclusive), which shall be due and payable on each date on which interest is payable on such Loan, the Borrower shall have received at least 10 days' prior notice (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) of such additional interest from such Lender.  If a Lender fails to give notice 10 days prior to the relevant Interest Payment Date, such additional interest shall be due and payable 10 days from receipt of such notice.
Reserves on Eurodollar Rate Loans
provided
3.05        .
Compensation for Losses
Upon demand of any Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) from time to time, the Borrower shall promptly compensate such Lender for and hold such Lender harmless from any loss, cost or expense (other than loss of anticipated profits) incurred by it as a result of:
49
(a)           any continuation, conversion, payment or prepayment of any Loan other than a Base Rate Loan on a day other than the last day of the Interest Period for such Loan (whether voluntary, mandatory, automatic, by reason of acceleration, or otherwise);
(b)           any failure by the Borrower (for a reason other than the failure of such Lender to make a Loan) to prepay, borrow, continue or convert any Loan other than a Base Rate Loan on the date or in the amount notified by the Borrower; or
(c)           any assignment of a Eurodollar Rate Loan on a day other than the last day of the Interest Period therefor as a result of a request by the Borrower pursuant to .
Section 10.13
The Borrower shall also pay any customary administrative fees charged by such Lender in connection with the foregoing.
For purposes of calculating amounts payable by the Borrower to the Lenders under this , each Lender shall be deemed to have funded each Eurodollar Rate Loan made by it at the Eurodollar Rate for such Loan by a matching deposit or other borrowing in the London interbank eurodollar market for a comparable amount and for a comparable period, whether or not such Eurodollar Rate Loan was in fact so funded.
Section 3.05
3.06        .
Mitigation Obligations; Replacement of Lenders
(a)           .  If any Lender requests compensation under , or the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to , or if any Lender gives a notice pursuant to , then such Lender shall use reasonable efforts to designate a different Lending Office for funding or booking its Loans hereunder or to assign its rights and obligations hereunder to another of its offices, branches or affiliates, if, in the judgment of such Lender, such designation or assignment (i) would eliminate or reduce amounts payable pursuant to or , as the case may be, in the future, or eliminate the need for the notice pursuant to , as applicable, and (ii) in each case, would not subject such Lender to any unreimbursed cost or expense and would not otherwise be disadvantageous to such Lender.  The Borrower hereby agrees to pay all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by any Lender in connection with any such designation or assignment.
Designation of a Different Lending Office
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
Section 3.02
Section 3.01
3.04
Section 3.02
(b)           .  If any Lender requests compensation under , or if the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to , the Borrower may replace such Lender in accordance with .
Replacement of Lenders
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
Section 10.13
3.07        .
Survival
All of the Borrower's obligations under this shall survive termination of the Aggregate Commitments and repayment of all other Obligations hereunder.
Article III
50
4.01        .
Conditions of Initial Credit Extension
The effectiveness of this Agreement and the obligation of the L/C Issuer and of each Lender to make its initial Credit Extension hereunder are subject to satisfaction of the following conditions precedent:
(a)           The Administrative Agent's receipt of the following, each of which shall be originals or telecopies (followed promptly by originals) unless otherwise specified, each properly executed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower, each dated the Closing Date (or, in the case of certificates of governmental officials, a recent date before the Closing Date) and each in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and each of the Lenders:
(i)            executed counterparts, sufficient in number for distribution to the Administrative Agent, each Lender and the Borrower, of this Agreement, executed and delivered by the Administrative Agent, the Borrower and each Lender listed on ;
Schedule 2.01
(ii)           a Note executed by the Borrower in favor of each Lender requesting a Note;
(iii)          such certificates of resolutions or other action, incumbency certificates and/or other certificates of Responsible Officers of the Borrower and each Guarantor as the Administrative Agent may require evidencing the identity, authority and capacity of each Responsible Officer thereof authorized to act as a Responsible Officer in connection with this Agreement and the other Loan Documents to which the Borrower and each Guarantor are a party;
(iv)          such documents and certifications as the Administrative Agent may reasonably require to evidence that the Borrower and each Guarantor are duly organized or formed, and that the Borrower and each Guarantor are validly existing, in good standing and qualified to engage in business in its state of organization and in each jurisdiction where its ownership, lease or operation of properties or the conduct of its business requires such qualification, except to the extent that failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect;
(v)           a favorable opinion of Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP, counsel to the Borrower, addressed to the Administrative Agent and each Lender, as to the matters set forth in and such other matters concerning the Borrower and each Guarantor and the Loan Documents as the Required Lenders may reasonably request;
Exhibit I
(vi)          a certificate of a Responsible Officer of the Borrower and each Guarantor either (A) attaching copies of all consents, licenses and approvals required in connection with the execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower and each Guarantor and the validity against the Borrower and each Guarantor of the Loan Documents to which it is a party, and such consents, licenses and approvals shall be in full force and effect, or (B) stating that no such consents, licenses or approvals are so required;
51
(vii)         a certificate signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower certifying (A) that the conditions specified in and have been satisfied (other than as to the Acquired Business); (B) that there has been no event or circumstance since December 31, 2005 that has had or could be reasonably expected to have, either individually or in the aggregate, a Closing Date Material Adverse Effect; and (C) the current Debt Ratings;
Sections 4.02(a)
(b)
(viii)        a certificate signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower certifying that the representations and warranties relating to the Acquired Business set forth in , , , and (the "") are true and correct on and as of the Closing Date, except to the extent that such representations and warranties specifically refer to an earlier date, in which case they are true and correct as of such earlier date;
Sections 5.01
5.02
5.04
5.14
5.18
Specified Representations
(ix)           a duly completed Compliance Certificate signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower demonstrating compliance with on June 30, 2006, after giving effect to the Transactions;
Section 7.10
(x)            evidence that the Existing Credit Agreement and the Existing CNL Credit Agreement have been or concurrently with the Closing Date are being terminated and all Liens securing obligations under the Existing Credit Agreement and the Existing CNL Credit Agreement, if any, have been or concurrently with the Closing Date are being released; and
(xi)           such other assurances, certificates, documents, consents or opinions as the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer, the Swing Line Lender or the Required Lenders reasonably may require.
(b)           Any fees required to be paid on or before the Closing Date shall have been paid.
(c)           Unless waived by the Administrative Agent, the Borrower shall have paid all fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the Administrative Agent to the extent invoiced prior to or on the Closing Date, plus such additional amounts of such fees, charges and disbursements as shall constitute its reasonable estimate of such fees, charges and disbursements incurred or to be incurred by it through the closing proceedings ( that such estimate shall not thereafter preclude a final settling of accounts between the Borrower and the Administrative Agent).
provided
(d)           The Acquisitions and the other Transactions shall be consummated in accordance with the Acquisition Agreements and the other documentation related to the Acquisitions and each of the other Transactions, each as in effect on the date hereof (collectively, the "") without waiver or amendment thereof that is materially adverse to the Lenders unless consented to by Bank of America, N.A., and UBS Loan Finance LLC.
Acquisition Documents
(e)           The Borrower shall have received gross proceeds of not less than $705,729,000 from borrowings under the Bridge Loan Agreement (or other funding on terms and conditions reasonably satisfactory to Bank of America, N.A., and UBS Loan Finance LLC.), and the documentation and terms of the Bridge Loan Agreement shall be reasonably satisfactory in form and substance to the Lenders.
52
(f)            There shall not have occurred any Closing Date Material Adverse Effect since December 31, 2005.
(g)           The Borrower and each of the Guarantors shall have provided the documentation and other information to the Lenders that is required by regulatory authorities under applicable "know your customer" and anti-money-laundering rules and regulations, including, without limitation, the Patriot Act.
Without limiting the generality of the provisions of , for purposes of determining compliance with the conditions specified in this , each Lender that has signed this Agreement shall be deemed to have consented to, approved or accepted or to be satisfied with, (i) this Agreement and each other document to which it is a party or which it has reviewed or (ii) any other matter required thereunder to be consented to or approved by or acceptable or satisfactory to a Lender unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from such Lender prior to the proposed Closing Date specifying its objection thereto.
Section 9.04
Section 4.01
4.02        .
Conditions to All Credit Extensions
The obligation of each Lender to honor any Request for Credit Extension (other than a Committed Loan Notice requesting only a conversion of Committed Loans to the other Type, or a continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans) is subject to the following conditions precedent:
(a)           The representations and warranties of the Borrower contained in or any other Loan Document, or which are contained in any document furnished at any time under or in connection herewith or therewith, shall be true and correct on and as of the date of such Credit Extension, except to the extent that such representations and warranties specifically refer to an earlier date, in which case they shall be true and correct as of such earlier date, and except that for purposes of this , the representations and warranties contained in subsections (a) and (b) of shall be deemed to refer to the most recent statements furnished pursuant to clauses (a) and (b), respectively, of .
Article V
Section 4.02
Section 5.05
Section 6.01
(b)           No Default shall exist, or would result from such proposed Credit Extension or from the application of the proceeds thereof.
(c)           The Administrative Agent and, if applicable, the L/C Issuer or the Swing Line Lender shall have received a Request for Credit Extension in accordance with the requirements hereof.
Each Request for Credit Extension (other than a Committed Loan Notice requesting only a conversion of Committed Loans to the other Type or a continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans) submitted by the Borrower shall be deemed to be a representation and warranty that the conditions specified in and have been satisfied on and as of the date of the applicable Credit Extension.
Sections 4.02(a)
(b)
The Borrower represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders that:
53
5.01        .
Existence, Qualification and Power; Compliance with Laws
The Borrower and each of its Subsidiaries (a) is duly organized or formed, validly existing and in good standing under the Laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation or organization, (b) has all requisite power and authority and all requisite governmental licenses, authorizations, consents and approvals to (i) own its assets and carry on its business and (ii) execute, deliver and perform its obligations under the Loan Documents to which it is a party, (c) is duly qualified and is licensed and in good standing under the Laws of each jurisdiction where its ownership, lease or operation of properties or the conduct of its business requires such qualification or license, and (d) is in compliance with all Laws; except in each case referred to in clause (b)(i), (c) or (d), to the extent that failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
5.02        .
Authorization; No Contravention
The execution, delivery and performance by the applicable Loan Parties of each Loan Document to which the applicable Loan Parties are parties, have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate or other organizational action, and do not and will not (a) contravene the terms of any of the applicable Loan Parties' Organization Documents; (b) conflict with or result in any breach or contravention of, or the creation of any Lien under, or require any payment to be made under (i) any Contractual Obligation to which the applicable Loan Parties are parties or affecting the applicable Loan Parties or the properties of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or (ii) any order, injunction, writ or decree of any Governmental Authority or any arbitral award to which the applicable Loan Parties or their property is subject; or (c) violate any Law.  The applicable Loan Parties and each Subsidiary thereof are in compliance with all Contractual Obligations referred to in clause (b)(i), except to the extent that failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
5.03        .
Governmental Authorization; Other Consents
No approval, consent, exemption, authorization, or other action by, or notice to, or filing with, any Governmental Authority or any other Person is necessary or required in connection with the execution, delivery or performance by, or enforcement against, the Loan Parties of this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
5.04        .
Binding Effect
This Agreement has been, and each other Loan Document, when delivered hereunder, will have been, duly executed and delivered by the Loan Parties.  This Agreement constitutes, and each other Loan Document when so delivered will constitute, a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Loan Parties, enforceable against the Loan Parties in accordance with its terms.
5.05        .
Financial Statements; No Material Adverse Effect
(a)           The Audited Financial Statements (i) were prepared in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the period covered thereby, except as otherwise expressly noted therein; (ii) fairly present the financial condition of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the date thereof and their results of operations for the period covered thereby in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the period covered thereby, except as otherwise expressly noted therein; and (iii) show all material indebtedness and other liabilities, direct or contingent, of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the date thereof, including liabilities for taxes, material commitments and Indebtedness.
54
(b)           The unaudited consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries dated June 30, 2006, and the related consolidated statements of income or operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for the fiscal quarter ended on that date (i) were prepared in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the period covered thereby, except as otherwise expressly noted therein, (ii) fairly present the financial condition of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the date thereof and their results of operations for the period covered thereby, subject, in the case of clauses (i) and (ii), to the absence of footnotes and to normal year-end audit adjustments and (iii) show all material indebtedness and other liabilities, direct or contingent, of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the date thereof, including liabilities for taxes, material commitments and Indebtedness.
(c)           Since the date of the Audited Financial Statements, there has been no event or circumstance, either individually or in the aggregate, that has had or could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
(d)           The financial information of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries delivered pursuant to (i) were prepared in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the period covered thereby, except as otherwise expressly noted therein; (ii) fairly present the financial condition of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the date thereof and their results of operations for the period covered thereby in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the period covered thereby, except as otherwise expressly noted therein; and (iii) show all material indebtedness and other liabilities, direct or contingent, of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the date thereof, including liabilities for taxes, material commitments and Indebtedness.
Section 6.01
(e)           To the best knowledge of the Borrower, no Internal Control Event exists or has occurred since the date of the Audited Financial Statements that has resulted in or could reasonably be expected to result in a misstatement in any material respect, in any financial information heretofore delivered to the Administrative Agent or the Lenders, of (i) covenant compliance calculations provided hereunder or (ii) the assets, liabilities, financial condition or results of operations of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.
5.06        .
Litigation
There are no actions, suits, proceedings, claims, investigations or disputes pending or, to the knowledge of the Borrower after due and diligent investigation, threatened or contemplated, at law, in equity, in arbitration or before any Governmental Authority, by or against the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or against any of their properties or revenues that (a) purport to affect or pertain to this Agreement or any other Loan Document, or any of the transactions contemplated hereby, or (b) either individually or in the aggregate, if determined adversely, could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
5.07        .
No Default
Neither the Borrower nor any Subsidiary is in default under or with respect to any Contractual Obligation that could, either individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.  No Default has occurred and is continuing or would result from the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
5.08        .
Ownership of Property; Liens; Leases
(a)           Each of the Borrower and each Subsidiary has good record and marketable title in fee simple to, or valid leasehold interests in, all real property necessary or used in the ordinary conduct of its business, except for such defects in title as could not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
55
(b)           The property of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries is subject to no Liens, other than Liens permitted by .
Section 7.01
(c)           Except as could not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, (i) there are no renewal or extension options applicable to any lease to which the Borrower or any Subsidiary is a party; (ii) to the Borrower's knowledge, no condition exists which, with the giving of notice or the passage of time, or both, would permit any lessee to cancel its obligations under any lease to which the Borrower or any Subsidiary is a party; (iii) the Borrower has received no notice that any lessee intends to cease operations at any leased property prior to the expiration of the term of the applicable lease (other than temporarily due to casualty, remodeling, renovation or any similar causes) and (iv) to the Borrower's knowledge, none of the lessees or their sub-lessees, if any, under any of the leases to which the Borrower or any Subsidiary is a party is the subject of any bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency or similar proceeding.
5.09        .
Environmental Compliance
The Borrower and its Subsidiaries conduct in the ordinary course of business a review of the effect of existing Environmental Laws and claims alleging potential liability or responsibility for violation of any Environmental Law on their respective businesses, operations and properties, and as a result thereof the Borrower has reasonably concluded that such Environmental Laws and claims could not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
5.10        .
Insurance
The properties of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries are insured with financially sound and reputable insurance companies not Affiliates of the Borrower, in such amounts, with such deductibles and covering such risks as are customarily carried by companies engaged in similar businesses and owning similar properties in localities where the Borrower or the applicable Subsidiary operates.
5.11        .
Taxes
The Borrower and its Subsidiaries have filed all Federal, state and other material tax returns and reports required to be filed, and have paid all Federal, state and other material taxes, assessments, fees and other governmental charges levied or imposed upon them or their properties, income or assets otherwise due and payable, except those which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted and for which adequate reserves have been provided in accordance with GAAP.  There is no proposed tax assessment against the Borrower or any Subsidiary that would, if made, have a Material Adverse Effect.  Neither the Borrower nor any Subsidiary thereof is party to any tax sharing agreement.
5.12        .
ERISA Compliance
(a)           Each Plan is in compliance in all material respects with the applicable provisions of ERISA, the Code and other Federal or state Laws.  Each Plan that is intended to qualify under Section 401(a) of the Code has received a favorable determination letter from the IRS or an application for such a letter is currently being processed by the IRS with respect thereto and, to the best knowledge of the Borrower, nothing has occurred which would prevent, or cause the loss of, such qualification.  The Borrower and each ERISA Affiliate have made all required contributions to each Plan subject to Section 412 of the Code, and no application for a funding waiver or an extension of any amortization period pursuant to Section 412 of the Code has been made with respect to any Plan.
56
(b)           There are no pending or, to the best knowledge of the Borrower, threatened claims, actions or lawsuits, or action by any Governmental Authority, with respect to any Plan that could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.  There has been no prohibited transaction or violation of the fiduciary responsibility rules with respect to any Plan that has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
(c)           (i) No ERISA Event has occurred or is reasonably expected to occur; (ii) no Pension Plan has any Unfunded Pension Liability; (iii) neither the Borrower nor any ERISA Affiliate has incurred, or reasonably expects to incur, any liability under Title IV of ERISA with respect to any Pension Plan (other than premiums due and not delinquent under Section 4007 of ERISA); (iv) neither the Borrower nor any ERISA Affiliate has incurred, or reasonably expects to incur, any liability (and no event has occurred which, with the giving of notice under Section 4219 of ERISA, would result in such liability) under Sections 4201 or 4243 of ERISA with respect to a Multiemployer Plan; and (v) neither the Borrower nor any ERISA Affiliate has engaged in a transaction that could be subject to Sections 4069 or 4212(c) of ERISA.
5.13        .
Subsidiaries; Equity Interests; Subsidiary Guarantors
(a)           As of the Closing Date, the Borrower has no Subsidiaries other than those specifically disclosed in Part (a) of , and the outstanding Equity Interests in such Subsidiaries have been validly issued, are fully paid and nonassessable and are owned by the Borrower or one of its Subsidiaries in the amounts specified on Part (a) of free and clear of all Liens.  Part (a) of discloses, for each of the Borrower's direct and indirect Subsidiaries existing as of the Closing Date:
Schedule 5.13
Schedule 5.13
Schedule 5.13
(i)            the percentage of the outstanding Equity Interests in the Subsidiary that is beneficially owned by the Borrower, including Equity Interests acquired as a result of the Acquisitions;
(ii)           the Total Asset Value of the Subsidiary;
(iii)          the amount of Indebtedness of the Subsidiary;
(iv)          the amount of Indebtedness of the Subsidiary that is secured by a Lien (other than Permitted Liens);
(v)           a notation whether or not the Subsidiary is a Guarantor and, if not, a description of the basis on which the Subsidiary is not required to be a Guarantor pursuant to ; and
Section 6.13
(vi)          the amount of revenue of the Subsidiary for the six month period ended June 30, 2006.
(b)           The Borrower has no equity investments in any other Person other than those specifically disclosed in Part (b) of and set forth as part of is an identification of those entities that are Material Joint Ventures.
Schedule 5.13
Schedule 5.13(b)
57
(c)           As of the Closing Date, the Borrower has no Subsidiaries that would be required to become Subsidiary Guarantors pursuant to other than those Subsidiaries that are Subsidiary Guarantors.
Section 6.13(a)
5.14        .
Margin Regulations; Investment Company Act; REIT Status
(a)           The Borrower is not engaged and will not engage, principally or as one of its important activities, in the business of purchasing or carrying margin stock (within the meaning of Regulation U issued by the FRB), or extending credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stock.
(b)           None of the Borrower, any Person Controlling the Borrower, or any Subsidiary is or is required to be registered as an "investment company" under the Investment Company Act of 1940.
(c)           The Borrower meets all requirements to qualify as a REIT.  No Subsidiary is required to qualify as a REIT on or after the Closing Date.
5.15        .
Disclosure
The Borrower has disclosed to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders all agreements, instruments and corporate or other restrictions to which it or any of its Subsidiaries is subject, and all other matters known to it, that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.  No report, financial statement, certificate or other information furnished (whether in writing or orally) by or on behalf of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries to the Administrative Agent or any Lender in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby and the negotiation of this Agreement or delivered hereunder or under any other Loan Document (in each case, as modified or supplemented by other information so furnished) contains any material misstatement of fact or omits to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; that, with respect to projected financial information, the Borrower represents only that such information was prepared in good faith based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable at the time.
provided
5.16        .
Compliance with Laws
Each of the Borrower and each Subsidiary is in compliance in all material respects with the requirements of all Laws and all orders, writs, injunctions and decrees applicable to it or to its properties, except in such instances in which (a) such requirement of Law or order, writ, injunction or decree is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted or (b) the failure to comply therewith, either individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
5.17        .
Intellectual Property; Licenses, Etc
The Borrower and its Subsidiaries own, or possess the right to use, all of the trademarks, service marks, trade names, copyrights, patents, patent rights, franchises, licenses and other intellectual property rights (collectively, "") that are reasonably necessary for the operation of their respective businesses, without conflict with the rights of any other Person.  To the best knowledge of the Borrower, no slogan or other advertising device, product, process, method, substance, part or other material now employed, or now contemplated to be employed, by the Borrower or any Subsidiary infringes upon any rights held by any other Person.  No claim or litigation regarding any of the foregoing is pending or, to the best knowledge of the Borrower, threatened, which, either individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
IP Rights
58
5.18        .
Use of Proceeds
The proceeds of the Loans hereunder will be used solely for the purposes specified in .  No proceeds of the Loans hereunder will be used for the acquisition of another Person unless the board of directors (or other comparable governing body) or stockholders (or other equity owners), as appropriate, of such Person has approved such acquisition.
Section 6.11
5.19        .
Taxpayer Identification Number
The Borrower's true and correct U.S. taxpayer identification number is set forth on .
Schedule 10.02
5.20        .
Acquisition Documents
The Lenders have been furnished true and complete copies of each Acquisition Document to the extent executed and delivered on or prior to the Closing Date.
So long as any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, any Loan or other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied, or any Letter of Credit shall remain outstanding, the Borrower shall, and shall (except in the case of the covenants set forth in , , and ) cause each Subsidiary to:
Sections 6.01
6.02
6.03
6.01        .
Financial Statements
Deliver to the Administrative Agent and each Lender, in form and detail satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders:
(a)           as soon as available, but in any event within five days of the date the Borrower is required to file its Form 10-K with the SEC (without giving effect to any extension of such due date, whether obtained by filing the notification permitted by Rule 12b-25 or any successor provision thereto or otherwise) (commencing with the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006), a consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at the end of such fiscal year, and the related consolidated statements of income or operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for such fiscal year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the previous fiscal year, all in reasonable detail and prepared in accordance with GAAP, such consolidated statements to be audited and accompanied by (i) a report and opinion of a Registered Public Accounting Firm of nationally recognized standing reasonably acceptable to the Required Lenders, which report and opinion shall be prepared in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards and applicable Securities Laws and shall not be subject to any "going concern" or like qualification or exception or any qualification or exception as to the scope of such audit or with respect to the absence of any material misstatement and (ii) an opinion of such Registered Public Accounting Firm independently assessing the Borrower's internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Item 308 of SEC Regulation S-K, PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 2, and Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; and
59
(b)           as soon as available, but in any event within five days of the date the Borrower is required to file its Form 10-Q with the SEC (without giving effect to any extension of such due date, whether obtained by filing the notification permitted by Rule 12b-25 or any successor provision thereto or otherwise) (commencing with the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2006), a consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower as at the end of such fiscal quarter, and the related consolidated statements of income or operations for such fiscal quarter and for the portion of the Borrower's fiscal year then ended, and a statement of cash flow for the portion of the Borrower's fiscal year then ended setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the corresponding fiscal quarter of the previous fiscal year and the corresponding portion of the previous fiscal year, all in reasonable detail, such consolidated statements to be certified by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower as fairly presenting the financial condition, results of operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in accordance with GAAP, subject only to normal year-end audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes; and
(c)           as soon as available, but in no event later that 60 days following the end of each fiscal year of the Borrower, an annual forecast for the then-current fiscal year, prepared in a manner and in the form of the forecast provided on the Closing Date or in such other form as is reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders.
As to any information contained in materials furnished pursuant to , the Borrower shall not be separately required to furnish such information under clause (a) or (b) above, but the foregoing shall not be in derogation of the obligation of the Borrower to furnish the information and materials described in clauses (a) and (b) above at the times specified therein.
Section 6.02(d)
6.02        .
Certificates; Other Information
Deliver to the Administrative Agent and each Lender, in form and detail satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders:
(a)           concurrently with the delivery of the financial statements referred to in and (commencing with the delivery of the financial statements for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2006), a duly completed Compliance Certificate signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower;
Sections 6.01(a)
(b)
(b)           promptly after any request by the Administrative Agent or any Lender, copies of any management letters submitted to the board of directors (or the audit committee of the board of directors) of the Borrower by independent accountants in connection with an audit of the accounts of the Borrower;
(c)           concurrently with the delivery of the financial statements referred to in , a certificate of its independent certified public accountants certifying such financial statements and stating that in making the examination necessary therefor no knowledge was obtained of any Default or, if any such Default shall exist, stating the nature and status of such event;
Section 6.01(a)
(d)           promptly after the same are available, copies of each annual report, proxy or financial statement or other report or communication sent to the stockholders of the Borrower, and copies of all annual, regular, periodic and special reports and registration statements which the Borrower may file or be required to file with the SEC under Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and not otherwise required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent pursuant hereto;
60
(e)           promptly, and in any event within five Business Days after receipt thereof by the Borrower or any Subsidiary thereof, copies of each notice or other correspondence received from the SEC (or comparable agency in any applicable non-U.S. jurisdiction) concerning any investigation by such agency regarding financial or other operational results of the Borrower or any Subsidiary thereof; and
(f)            promptly, such additional information regarding the business, financial or corporate affairs of the Borrower or any Subsidiary, or compliance with the terms of the Loan Documents, as the Administrative Agent or any Lender may from time to time reasonably request.
Documents required to be delivered pursuant to or or (to the extent any such documents are included in materials otherwise filed with the SEC) may be delivered electronically and if so delivered, shall be deemed to have been delivered on the date (i) on which the Borrower posts such documents, or provides a link thereto on the Borrower's website on the Internet at the website address listed on ; or (ii) on which such documents are posted on the Borrower's behalf on an Internet or intranet website, if any, to which each Lender and the Administrative Agent have access (whether a commercial, third-party website or whether sponsored by the Administrative Agent); that:  (i) the Borrower shall deliver paper copies of such documents to the Administrative Agent or any Lender that requests the Borrower to deliver such paper copies until a written request to cease delivering paper copies is given by the Administrative Agent or such Lender and (ii) the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent and each Lender (by telecopier or electronic mail) of the posting of any such documents and provide to the Administrative Agent by electronic mail electronic versions (., soft copies) of such documents.  Notwithstanding anything contained herein, in every instance the Borrower shall be required to provide paper copies of the Compliance Certificates required by to the Administrative Agent.  Except for such Compliance Certificates, the Administrative Agent shall have no obligation to request the delivery or to maintain copies of the documents referred to above, and in any event shall have no responsibility to monitor compliance by the Borrower with any such request for delivery, and each Lender shall be solely responsible for requesting delivery to it or maintaining its copies of such documents.
Section 6.01(a)
(b)
Section 6.02(d)
Schedule 10.02
provided
i.e
Section 6.02(a)
The Borrower hereby acknowledges that (a) the Administrative Agent and/or the Arrangers will make available to the Lenders and the L/C Issuer materials and/or information provided by or on behalf of the Borrower hereunder (collectively, "") by posting the Borrower Materials on IntraLinks or another similar electronic system (the "") and (b) certain of the Lenders may be "public-side" Lenders (i.e., Lenders that do not wish to receive material non-public information with respect to the Borrower or its securities) (each, a "").  The Borrower hereby agrees that so long as the Borrower is the issuer of any outstanding debt or equity securities that are registered or issued pursuant to a private offering or is actively contemplating issuing any such securities (w) all Borrower Materials that are to be made available to Public Lenders shall be clearly and conspicuously marked "PUBLIC" which, at a minimum, shall mean that the word "PUBLIC" shall appear prominently on the first page thereof; (x) by marking Borrower Materials "PUBLIC," the Borrower shall be deemed to have authorized the Administrative Agent, the Arrangers, the L/C Issuer and the Lenders to treat such Borrower Materials as not containing any material non-public information with respect to the Borrower or its securities for purposes of United States Federal and state securities laws (, , that to the extent such Borrower Materials constitute Information, they shall be treated as set forth in ); (y) all Borrower Materials marked "PUBLIC" are permitted to be made available through a portion of the Platform designated "Public Investor;" and (z) the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers shall be entitled to treat any Borrower Materials that are not marked "PUBLIC" as being suitable only for posting on a portion of the Platform not designated "Public Investor."  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Borrower shall be under no obligation to mark any Borrower Materials "PUBLIC."
Borrower Materials
Platform
Public Lender
provided
however
Section 10.07
61
6.03        .
Notices
Promptly notify the Administrative Agent and each Lender of:
(a)           the occurrence of any Default;
(b)           any matter that has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, including (i) breach or non-performance of, or any default under, a Contractual Obligation of the Borrower or any Subsidiary; (ii) any dispute, litigation, investigation, proceeding or suspension between the Borrower or any Subsidiary and any Governmental Authority; or (iii) the commencement of, or any material development in, any litigation or proceeding affecting the Borrower or any Subsidiary, including pursuant to any applicable Environmental Laws;
(c)           the occurrence of any ERISA Event;
(d)           any material change in accounting policies or financial reporting practices by the Borrower or any Subsidiary;
(e)           any announcement by Moody's or S&P of any change or possible change in a Debt Rating; and
(f)            of the determination by the Registered Public Accounting Firm providing the opinion required under (in connection with its preparation of such  opinion) or the Borrower's determination at any time of the occurrence or existence of any Internal Control Event.
Section 6.01(a)(ii)
Each notice pursuant to this Section shall be accompanied by a statement of a Responsible Officer of the Borrower setting forth details of the occurrence referred to therein and stating what action the Borrower has taken and proposes to take with respect thereto.  Each notice pursuant to shall describe with particularity any and all provisions of this Agreement and any other Loan Document that have been breached.
Section 6.03(a)
6.04        .
Payment of Obligations
Pay and discharge as the same shall become due and payable, all its obligations and liabilities, including (a) all tax liabilities, assessments and governmental charges or levies upon it or its properties or assets, unless the same are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted and adequate reserves in accordance with GAAP are being maintained by the Borrower or such Subsidiary; (b) all lawful claims which, if unpaid, would by law become a Lien upon its property; and (c) all Indebtedness, as and when due and payable, but subject to any subordination provisions contained in any instrument or agreement evidencing such Indebtedness, in each case except where the failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
6.05        .
Preservation of Existence, Etc
(a) Preserve, renew and maintain in full force and effect its legal existence and good standing under the Laws of the jurisdiction of its organization except in a transaction not prohibited by or , or to the extent that failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; (b) take all reasonable action to maintain all rights, privileges, permits, licenses and franchises necessary or desirable in the normal conduct of its business, except to the extent that failure to
Section 7.04
7.05
62
do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; and (c) preserve or renew all of its registered patents, trademarks, trade names and service marks, the non-preservation of which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Borrower will do all things necessary to maintain its status as a REIT.
6.06        .
Maintenance of Properties
(a) Maintain, preserve and protect, or make contractual or other provisions to cause to maintain, preserve or protect, all of its properties and equipment necessary in the operation of its business in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted, in each case except where the failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; (b) make, or make contractual or other provisions to cause to be made, all necessary repairs thereto and renewals and replacements thereof except where the failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; and (c) use the standard of care typical in the industry in the operation and maintenance of its facilities.
6.07        .
Maintenance of Insurance
(a)           Maintain with financially sound and reputable insurance companies not Affiliates of the Borrower, insurance with respect to its properties and business against loss or damage of the kinds customarily insured against by Persons engaged in the same or similar business, of such types and in such amounts as are customarily carried under similar circumstances by such other Persons.
(b)           Use its, and cause the Subsidiaries to use their, commercially reasonable best efforts to ensure that each lessee of a property owned in whole or in part, directly or indirectly, by the Borrower or any Subsidiary, and each mortgagee of a property on which the Borrower or any Subsidiary holds a mortgage, has, and until the Maturity Date will keep, in place adequate insurance that names the Borrower or such Subsidiary as a loss payee.  For purposes of the preceding sentence "" shall mean insurance, with financially sound and reputable insurers in such amounts and insuring against such risks as are customarily maintained by similar businesses.
adequate insurance
6.08        .
Compliance with Laws
Comply in all material respects with the requirements of all Laws and all orders, writs, injunctions and decrees applicable to it or to its business or property, except in such instances in which (a) such requirement of Law or order, writ, injunction or decree is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted; or (b) the failure to comply therewith could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
6.09        .
Books and Records
Maintain proper books of record and account, in which full, true and correct entries in conformity with GAAP consistently applied shall be made of all financial transactions and matters involving the assets and business of the Borrower or such Subsidiary, as the case may be.
6.10        .
Inspection Rights
Permit representatives and independent contractors of the Administrative Agent and each Lender to visit and inspect any of its properties, to examine its corporate, financial and operating records, and make copies thereof or abstracts therefrom, and to discuss its affairs, finances and accounts with its directors, officers, and independent public accountants, all at the expense of the Borrower and at such reasonable times during normal business hours and as often as may be reasonably desired, upon
63
reasonable advance notice to the Borrower; , , that when an Event of Default exists the Administrative Agent or any Lender (or any of their respective representatives or independent contractors) may do any of the foregoing at the expense of the Borrower at any time during normal business hours and without advance notice.
provided
however
6.11        .
Use of Proceeds
Use proceeds from the Term Loans and Committed Revolving Loans to finance, in part, the CNL Merger and the Advisor Merger, to pay transaction fees, commissions and expenses in connection therewith and to repay the amounts owed under the Existing Credit Agreement and the Existing CNL Credit Agreement and use the remainder of the Committed Revolving Loans for working capital and general corporate purposes.
6.12        .
REIT Status
The Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, operate its business at all times so as to satisfy all requirements necessary to qualify and maintain the Borrower's  qualification as a real estate investment trust under Sections 856 through 860 of the Code.  The Borrower will maintain adequate records so as to comply with all record-keeping requirements relating to its qualification as a real estate investment trust as required by the Code and applicable regulations of the Department of the Treasury promulgated thereunder and will properly prepare and timely file with the Internal Revenue Service all returns and reports required thereby.
6.13        .
New Subsidiaries; Guarantees
(a)           Subject to , with respect to any Person that is or becomes a Domestic Subsidiary of the Borrower as to which the Borrower directly or indirectly owns all of the Equity Interests, cause such Subsidiary to execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent a Joinder Agreement, guaranty, guaranty supplement or comparable documentation to become a Subsidiary Guarantor on or before the deadline for the delivery of the next Compliance Certificate pursuant to Section 6.02 (and in any event within 30 days after such person becomes a Subsidiary) and cause such Subsidiary to deliver such other documentation as the Administrative Agent may reasonably request in connection with the foregoing, including, without limitation, certified resolutions and other organizational and authorizing documents of such Subsidiary, favorable opinions of counsel to such Subsidiary (which shall cover, among other things, the legality, validity, binding effect and enforceability of the documentation referred to above), all in form, content and scope reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
Section 6.13(b)
(b)           A Subsidiary of the Borrower shall not be required to become a Subsidiary Guarantor pursuant to if the Borrower provides evidence reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent that such Subsidiary is prohibited by the terms of its articles or certificate of incorporation, operating agreement or other constituent documents, or by contract, from becoming a Guarantor.  If a Subsidiary ceases to or fails to satisfy the requirements of this , the Borrower shall cause such Subsidiary to become a Subsidiary Guarantor as required by .
Section 6.13(a)
Section 6.13(b)
Section 6.13(a)
6.14        .
Employee Benefits
(a) Comply in all material respects with the applicable provisions of ERISA and the Code with respect to each Plan, and (b) furnish to the Administrative Agent (x)  within five days after any Responsible Officer of  the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate knows or has reason to know that, any ERISA Event has occurred that, alone or together with any other ERISA Event could reasonably be expected to result in liability of the Borrower or any of its ERISA Affiliates in an aggregate amount
64
exceeding the Threshold Amount or the imposition of a Lien, a statement setting forth details as to such ERISA Event and the action, if any, that the Borrower or ERISA Affiliate proposes to take with respect thereto, and (y) upon request by the Administrative Agent, copies of (i) each Schedule B (Actuarial Information) to the annual report (Form 5500 Series) filed by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate with the Internal Revenue Service with respect to each Pension Plan; (ii) the most recent actuarial valuation report for each Pension Plan; (iii) all notices received by any Company or any ERISA Affiliate from a Multiemployer Plan sponsor or any governmental agency concerning an ERISA Event; and (iv) such other documents or governmental reports or filings relating to any Plan as the Administrative Agent shall reasonably request.
So long as any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, any Loan or other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied, or any Letter of Credit shall remain outstanding, the Borrower shall not, nor shall it permit any Subsidiary to, directly or indirectly:
7.01        .
Liens
Create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Lien upon any of its property, assets or revenues, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, other than the following:
(a)           Liens pursuant to any Loan Document;
(b)           Liens securing Indebtedness permitted under ;
Section 7.03
(c)           Liens for taxes not yet due or which are being contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted, if adequate reserves with respect thereto are maintained on the books of the applicable Person in accordance with GAAP;
(d)           carriers', warehousemen's, mechanics', materialmen's, repairmen's or other like Liens arising in the ordinary course of business which are not overdue for a period of more than 30 days or which are being contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted, if adequate reserves with respect thereto, to the extent required by GAAP, are maintained on the books of the applicable Person;
(e)           pledges or deposits in the ordinary course of business in connection with workers' compensation, unemployment insurance and other social security legislation, other than any Lien imposed by ERISA;
(f)            deposits to secure the performance of bids, trade contracts and leases (other than Indebtedness), statutory obligations, surety bonds (other than bonds related to judgments or litigation), performance bonds and other obligations of a like nature incurred in the ordinary course of business;
(g)           easements, rights-of-way, restrictions and other similar encumbrances affecting real property which, in the aggregate, are not substantial in amount, and which do not in any case materially detract from the value of the property subject thereto or materially interfere with the ordinary conduct of the business of the applicable Person; and
65
(h)           Liens securing judgments for the payment of money not constituting an Event of Default under or securing appeal or other surety bonds related to such judgments.
Section 8.01(h)
7.02        .
Investments
(a)           make or allow Investments in Development Property to exceed, in the aggregate at any one time outstanding, 15% of Consolidated Total Asset Value.
(b)           make or allow Investments in Joint Ventures to exceed, in the aggregate at any one time outstanding, 25% of Consolidated Total Asset Value.  For purposes of this , the Borrower's aggregate Investment in Joint Ventures will be valued at (i) the aggregate amount of cash and cash equivalents and the book value of other property contributed by the Borrower to the Joint Ventures minus (ii) the aggregate amount of distributions received by the Borrower from the Joint Ventures that would be classified as a return of capital (as opposed to a return on investment).
Section 7.02(b)
7.03        .
Indebtedness
(a)           Create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Indebtedness of the Borrower or any Subsidiary Guarantor, except:
(i)            Indebtedness under the Loan Documents; and
(ii)           other Indebtedness; that after giving effect thereto (including any Liens associated therewith) the Borrower and its Subsidiaries are in compliance with all of the terms of this Agreement, including, but not limited to, the financial covenants set forth in .
provided
Section 7.10
(b)           Create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Secured Debt or any Indebtedness of any Subsidiary of the Borrower that is not a Subsidiary Guarantor (other than Indebtedness owing to the Borrower or another Subsidiary of the Borrower) that, when combined with (i) outstanding Secured Debt and (ii) outstanding Indebtedness of other Subsidiaries that are not Subsidiary Guarantors exceeds 30% of Consolidated Total Asset Value.
7.04        .
Fundamental Changes
Merge, dissolve, liquidate, consolidate with or into another Person, except that, so long as no Default exists or would result therefrom, any Subsidiary may merge with (a) the Borrower, that the Borrower shall be the continuing or surviving Person, or (b) any one or more other Subsidiaries, that when any wholly-owned Subsidiary is merging with another Subsidiary, the wholly-owned Subsidiary shall be the continuing or surviving Person.
provided
provided
7.05        .
Dispositions
Make any Disposition of all or a substantial part of the assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries.
7.06        .
Restricted Payments
Declare or make, directly or indirectly, any Restricted Payment, or incur any obligation (contingent or otherwise) to do so, except that, so long as no Default shall have occurred and be continuing or would result therefrom, the Borrower and each Subsidiary may purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire Equity Interests issued by it in an amount not to exceed, in the aggregate, fifteen percent (15%) of Consolidated Tangible Net Worth during the term of this Agreement.
66
7.07        .
Change in Nature of Business
Engage in any material line of business substantially different from those lines of business conducted by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on the date hereof or any business substantially related or incidental thereto.
7.08        .
Transactions with Affiliates
Enter into any transaction of any kind with any Affiliate of the Borrower (other than a Subsidiary), whether or not in the ordinary course of business, other than on fair and reasonable terms substantially as favorable to the Borrower or such Subsidiary as would be obtainable by the Borrower or such Subsidiary at the time in a comparable arm's-length transaction with a Person other than an Affiliate.
7.09        .
Burdensome Agreements
Enter into any Contractual Obligation (other than this Agreement or any other Loan Document) that limits the ability of (a) any wholly-owned Subsidiary of the Borrower (other than a Subsidiary that is a bankruptcy remote special purpose entity) to Guarantee the Indebtedness of the Borrower or (b) the Borrower to create, incur, assume or suffer to exist Liens on its property; , , that this clause (b) shall not prohibit any negative pledge incurred or provided in favor of any holder of Indebtedness permitted under solely to the extent any such negative pledge (i) relates to the property financed by or the subject of such Indebtedness or (ii) only requires the grant of a Lien to secure such Indebtedness if a Lien is granted by the Borrower to secure other Indebtedness of the Borrower.
provided
however
Section 7.03
7.10        .
Financial Covenants
(a)           .  Permit the Leverage Ratio to be greater than the following amounts as of the end of any fiscal quarter ending during the corresponding period set forth below:
Leverage Ratio
 
(b)           .  Permit the Secured Debt Ratio to be greater than .30 to 1.0 as of the end of any fiscal quarter.
Secured Debt Ratio
(c)           .  Permit the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio to be less than the following amounts as of the end of any fiscal quarter ending during the corresponding period set forth below:
Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio
 
67
(d)           .  Permit the Unsecured Leverage Ratio to be greater than the following amounts as of the end of any fiscal quarter ending during the corresponding period set forth below:
Unsecured Leverage Ratio
 
(e)           .  Permit the Consolidated Tangible Net Worth to be, as of the end of any fiscal quarter, less than (i) 85% of the Consolidated Tangible Net Worth at the Closing Date (on a pro forma basis to reflect the Acquisitions) plus (ii) 85% of Net Cash Proceeds from all Public Equity Issuances subsequent to the Closing Date.
Consolidated Tangible Net Worth
8.01        .
Events of Default
Any of the following shall constitute an Event of Default:
(a)           .  The Borrower or any other Loan Party fails to pay (i) when and as required to be paid herein, any amount of principal of any Loan or any L/C Obligation, or (ii) within three days after the same becomes due, any interest on any Loan or on any L/C Obligation, or any fee due hereunder, or (iii) within five days after the same becomes due, any other amount payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document; or
Non-Payment
(b)           .  Any Loan Party or any of its Subsidiaries fails to perform or observe any term, covenant or agreement contained in any of , , , , , , or ; or
Specific Covenants
Section 6.01
6.02
6.03
6.05
6.10
6.11
6.13
Article VII
(c)           .  Any Loan Party fails to perform or observe any other covenant or agreement (not specified in subsection (a) or (b) above) contained in any Loan Document on its part to be performed or observed and such failure continues for 30 days; or
Other Defaults
(d)           .  Any representation, warranty, certification or statement of fact made or deemed made by or on behalf of the Borrower or any other Loan Party herein, in any other Loan Document, or in any document delivered in connection herewith or therewith shall be incorrect or misleading when made or deemed made; or
Representations and Warranties
(e)           .  (i) Any Loan Party or any of its Subsidiaries (A) fails to make any payment when due (whether by scheduled maturity, required prepayment, acceleration, demand, or otherwise) in respect of any Indebtedness or Guarantee (other than Indebtedness hereunder and Indebtedness under Swap Contracts) having an aggregate principal amount (including undrawn committed or available amounts and including amounts owing to all creditors under any combined or syndicated credit arrangement) of more than the Threshold Amount, or
Cross-Default
68
(B) fails to observe or perform any other agreement or condition relating to any such Indebtedness or Guarantee or contained in any instrument or agreement evidencing, securing or relating thereto, or any other event occurs, the effect of which default or other event is to cause, or to permit the holder or holders of such Indebtedness or the beneficiary or beneficiaries of such Guarantee (or a trustee or agent on behalf of such holder or holders or beneficiary or beneficiaries) to cause, with the giving of notice if required, such Indebtedness to be demanded or to become due or to be repurchased, prepaid, defeased or redeemed (automatically or otherwise), or an offer to repurchase, prepay, defease or redeem such Indebtedness to be made, prior to its stated maturity, or such Guarantee to become payable or cash collateral in respect thereof to be demanded; or (ii) there occurs under any Swap Contract an Early Termination Date (as defined in such Swap Contract) resulting from (A) any event of default under such Swap Contract as to which the Borrower or any Subsidiary is the Defaulting Party (as defined in such Swap Contract) or (B) any Termination Event (as so defined) under such Swap Contract as to which the Borrower or any Subsidiary is an Affected Party (as so defined) and, in either event, the Swap Termination Value owed by such Loan Party or such Subsidiary as a result thereof is greater than the Threshold Amount; or
(f)            .  Any Loan Party or any of its Subsidiaries institutes or consents to the institution of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law, or makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors; or applies for or consents to the appointment of any receiver, trustee, custodian, conservator, liquidator, rehabilitator or similar officer for it or for all or any material part of its property; or any receiver, trustee, custodian, conservator, liquidator, rehabilitator or similar officer is appointed without the application or consent of such Person and the appointment continues undischarged or unstayed for 60 calendar days; or any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law relating to any such Person or to all or any material part of its property is instituted without the consent of such Person and continues undismissed or unstayed for 60 calendar days, or an order for relief is entered in any such proceeding; or
Insolvency Proceedings, Etc
(g)           .  (i) Any Loan Party or any of its Subsidiaries becomes unable or admits in writing its inability or fails generally to pay its debts as they become due, or (ii) any writ or warrant of attachment or execution or similar process is issued or levied against all or any material part of the property of any such Person and is not released, vacated or fully bonded within 30 days after its issue or levy; or
Inability to Pay Debts; Attachment
(h)           .  There is entered against any Loan Party or any of its Subsidiaries (i) a final judgment or order for the payment of money in an aggregate amount exceeding the Threshold Amount (to the extent not covered by independent third-party insurance as to which the insurer does not dispute coverage), or (ii) any one or more non-monetary final judgments that have, or could reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect and, in either case, (A) enforcement proceedings are commenced by any creditor upon such judgment or order, or (B) there is a period of 10 consecutive days during which a stay of enforcement of such judgment, by reason of a pending appeal or otherwise, is not in effect; or
Judgments
(i)            .  (i) An ERISA Event occurs with respect to a Pension Plan or Multiemployer Plan which has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in liability of the Borrower under Title IV of ERISA to the Pension Plan, Multiemployer Plan or the PBGC in an aggregate amount in excess of the Threshold Amount, or (ii) the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate fails to pay when due, after the expiration of any applicable grace period, any installment payment with respect to its withdrawal liability under Section 4201 of ERISA under a Multiemployer Plan in an aggregate amount in excess of the Threshold Amount; or
ERISA
69
(j)            .  Any provision of any Loan Document, at any time after its execution and delivery and for any reason other than as expressly permitted hereunder or thereunder or satisfaction in full of all the Obligations, ceases to be in full force and effect; or the Borrower or any other Person contests in any manner the validity or enforceability of any provision of any Loan Document; or any Loan Party denies that it has any or further liability or obligation under any Loan Document, or purports to revoke, terminate or rescind any provision of any Loan Document; or
Invalidity of Loan Documents
(k)           .  There occurs any Change of Control.
Change of Control
8.02        .
Remedies Upon Event of Default
If any Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Administrative Agent shall, at the request of, or may, with the consent of, the Required Lenders, take any or all of the following actions:
(a)           declare the commitment of each Lender to make Loans and any obligation of the L/C Issuer to make L/C Credit Extensions to be terminated, whereupon such commitments and obligation shall be terminated;
(b)           declare the unpaid principal amount of all outstanding Loans, all interest accrued and unpaid thereon, and all other amounts owing or payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document to be immediately due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrower;
(c)           require that the Borrower Cash Collateralize the L/C Obligations (in an amount equal to the then Outstanding Amount thereof); and
(d)           exercise on behalf of itself and the Lenders all rights and remedies available to it and the Lenders under the Loan Documents;
provided
, , that upon the occurrence of an Event of Default pursuant to or or the occurrence of an actual or deemed entry of an order for relief with respect to the Borrower under the Bankruptcy Code of the United States, the obligation of each Lender to make Loans and any obligation of the L/C Issuer to make L/C Credit Extensions shall automatically terminate, the unpaid principal amount of all outstanding Loans and all interest and other amounts as aforesaid shall automatically become due and payable, and the obligation of the Borrower to Cash Collateralize the L/C Obligations as aforesaid shall automatically become effective, in each case without further act of the Administrative Agent or any Lender.
however
Sections 8.01(f)
(g)
8.03        .
Application of Funds
After the exercise of remedies provided for in (or after the Loans have automatically become immediately due and payable and the L/C Obligations have automatically been required to be Cash Collateralized as set forth in the proviso to ), any amounts received on account of the Obligations shall be applied by the Administrative Agent in the following order:
Section 8.02
Section 8.02
First
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting fees, indemnities, expenses and other amounts (including fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the Administrative Agent and amounts payable under ) payable to the Administrative Agent in its capacity as such;
Article III
70
Second
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting fees, indemnities and other amounts (other than principal and interest) payable to the Lenders and the L/C Issuer (including fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the respective Lenders and the L/C Issuer and amounts payable under ), ratably among them in proportion to the amounts described in this clause payable to them;
Article III
Second
Third
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting accrued and unpaid interest on the Loans, L/C Borrowings and other Obligations, ratably among the Lenders and the L/C Issuer in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause payable to them;
Third
Fourth
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting unpaid principal of the Loans and L/C Borrowings, ratably among the Lenders and the L/C Issuer in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause held by them;
Fourth
Fifth
, to the Administrative Agent for the account of the L/C Issuer, to Cash Collateralize that portion of L/C Obligations comprised of the aggregate undrawn amount of Letters of Credit; and
Last
, the balance, if any, after all of the Obligations have been indefeasibly paid in full, to the Borrower or as otherwise required by Law.
Amounts used to Cash Collateralize the aggregate undrawn amount of Letters of Credit pursuant to clause above shall be applied to satisfy drawings under such Letters of Credit as they occur.  If any amount remains on deposit as Cash Collateral after all Letters of Credit have either been fully drawn or expired, such remaining amount shall be applied to the other Obligations, if any, in the order set forth above.
Fifth
9.01        .
Appointment and Authority
Each of the Lenders and the L/C Issuer hereby irrevocably appoints Bank of America to act on its behalf as the Administrative Agent hereunder and under the other Loan Documents and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms hereof or thereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto.  The provisions of this Article are solely for the benefit of the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the L/C Issuer, and the Borrower shall not have rights as a third party beneficiary of any of such provisions.
9.02        .
Rights as a Lender
The Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Administrative Agent and the term "Lender" or "Lenders" shall, unless otherwise expressly indicated or unless the context otherwise requires, include the Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder in its individual capacity.  Such Person and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to, act as the financial advisor or in any other advisory capacity for and generally engage in any kind of business with the Borrower or any Subsidiary or other Affiliate thereof as if such Person were not the Administrative Agent hereunder and without any duty to account therefor to the Lenders.
71
9.03        .
Exculpatory Provisions
The Administrative Agent shall not have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Administrative Agent:
(a)           shall not be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties, regardless of whether a Default has occurred and is continuing;
(b)           shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, except discretionary rights and powers expressly contemplated hereby or by the other Loan Documents that the Administrative Agent is required to exercise as directed in writing by the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be expressly provided for herein or in the other Loan Documents), that the Administrative Agent shall not be required to take any action that, in its opinion or the opinion of its counsel, may expose the Administrative Agent to liability or that is contrary to any Loan Document or applicable law; and
provided
(c)           shall not, except as expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents, have any duty to disclose, and shall not be liable for the failure to disclose, any information relating to the Borrower or any of its Affiliates that is communicated to or obtained by the Person serving as the Administrative Agent or any of its Affiliates in any capacity.
The Administrative Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it (i) with the consent or at the request of the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary, or as the Administrative Agent shall believe in good faith shall be necessary, under the circumstances as provided in and ) or (ii) in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct.  The Administrative Agent shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Default unless and until notice describing such Default is given to the Administrative Agent by the Borrower, a Lender or the L/C Issuer.
Sections 10.01
8.02
The Administrative Agent shall not be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty or representation made in or in connection with this Agreement or any other Loan Document, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered hereunder or thereunder or in connection herewith or therewith, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth herein or therein or the occurrence of any Default, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any other agreement, instrument or document or (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in or elsewhere herein, other than to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent.
Article IV
9.04        .
Reliance by Administrative Agent
The Administrative Agent shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing (including any electronic message, Internet or intranet website posting or other distribution) believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed, sent or otherwise authenticated by the proper Person.  The Administrative Agent also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to have been made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon.  In determining compliance with any condition hereunder to the making of a Loan, or the issuance of a Letter of Credit, that by its terms must be fulfilled to the satisfaction of a Lender or the L/C Issuer, the
72
Administrative Agent may presume that such condition is satisfactory to such Lender or the L/C Issuer unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice to the contrary from such Lender or the L/C Issuer prior to the making of such Loan or the issuance of such Letter of Credit.  The Administrative Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for the Borrower), independent accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts.
9.05        .
Delegation of Duties
The Administrative Agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers hereunder or under any other Loan Document by or through any one or more sub-agents appointed by the Administrative Agent.  The Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through their respective Related Parties.  The exculpatory provisions of this Article shall apply to any such sub-agent and to the Related Parties of the Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent, and shall apply to their respective activities in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein as well as activities as Administrative Agent.
9.06        .
Resignation of Administrative Agent
The Administrative Agent may at any time give notice of its resignation to the Lenders, the L/C Issuer and the Borrower.  Upon receipt of any such notice of resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right, in consultation with the Borrower, to appoint a successor, which shall be a bank with an office in the United States, or an Affiliate of any such bank with an office in the United States.  If no such successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Administrative Agent gives notice of its resignation, then the retiring Administrative Agent may on behalf of the Lenders and the L/C Issuer, appoint a successor Administrative Agent meeting the qualifications set forth above; that if the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders that no qualifying Person has accepted such appointment, then such resignation shall nonetheless become effective in accordance with such notice and (1) the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder and under the other Loan Documents and (2) all payments, communications and determinations provided to be made by, to or through the Administrative Agent shall instead be made by or to each Lender and the L/C Issuer directly, until such time as the Required Lenders appoint a successor Administrative Agent as provided for above in this Section.  Upon the acceptance of a successor's appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring (or retired) Administrative Agent, and the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from all of its duties and obligations hereunder or under the other Loan Documents (if not already discharged therefrom as provided above in this Section).  The fees payable by the Borrower to a successor Administrative Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and such successor.  After the retiring Administrative Agent's resignation hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, the provisions of this Article and shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring Administrative Agent, its sub-agents and their respective Related Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while the retiring Administrative Agent was acting as Administrative Agent.
provided
Section 10.04
Any resignation by Bank of America as Administrative Agent pursuant to this Section shall also constitute its resignation as L/C Issuer and Swing Line Lender.  Upon the acceptance of a successor's appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder, (a) such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring L/C Issuer and Swing Line Lender, (b) the retiring L/C Issuer and Swing Line Lender shall be discharged from all of their respective duties and
73
obligations hereunder or under the other Loan Documents, and (c) the successor L/C Issuer shall issue letters of credit in substitution for the Letters of Credit, if any, outstanding at the time of such succession or make other arrangement satisfactory to the retiring L/C Issuer to effectively assume the obligations of the retiring L/C Issuer with respect to such Letters of Credit.
9.07        .
Non-Reliance on Administrative Agent and Other Lenders
Each Lender and the L/C Issuer acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement.  Each Lender and the L/C Issuer also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any related agreement or any document furnished hereunder or thereunder.
9.08        .
No Other Duties, Etc
Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, none of the Arrangers, Bookrunners, Syndication Agent, Documentation Agents or Senior Managing Agents listed on the cover page hereof shall have any powers, duties or responsibilities under this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents, except in its capacity, as applicable, as the Administrative Agent, a Lender or the L/C Issuer hereunder.
9.09        .
Administrative Agent May File Proofs of Claim
In case of the pendency of any receivership, insolvency, liquidation, bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, composition or other judicial proceeding relative to the Borrower, the Administrative Agent (irrespective of whether the principal of any Loan or L/C Obligation shall then be due and payable as herein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Administrative Agent shall have made any demand on the Borrower) shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise:
(a)           to file and prove a claim for the whole amount of the principal and interest owing and unpaid in respect of the Loans, L/C Obligations and all other Obligations that are owing and unpaid and to file such other documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Lenders, the L/C Issuer and the Administrative Agent (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Lenders, the L/C Issuer and the Administrative Agent and their respective agents and counsel and all other amounts due the Lenders, the L/C Issuer and the Administrative Agent under and , and ) allowed in such judicial proceeding; and
Sections 2.03(i)
(j)
2.10
10.04
(b)           to collect and receive any monies or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same;
and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Lender and the L/C Issuer to make such payments to the Administrative Agent and, in the event that the Administrative Agent shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Lenders and the L/C Issuer, to pay to the Administrative Agent any amount due for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Administrative Agent and its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Administrative Agent under and .
Sections 2.10
10.04
74
Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to authorize the Administrative Agent to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Lender or the L/C Issuer any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Obligations or the rights of any Lender or to authorize the Administrative Agent to vote in respect of the claim of any Lender in any such proceeding.
10.01      .
Amendments, Etc
No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or any other Loan Document, and no consent to any departure by the Borrower therefrom, shall be effective unless in writing signed by the Required Lenders and the Borrower, and acknowledged by the Administrative Agent, and each such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which given; , , that no such amendment, waiver or consent shall:
provided
however
(a)           extend or increase the Commitment of any Lender (or reinstate any Commitment terminated pursuant to ) without the written consent of such Lender;
Section 8.02
(b)           postpone any date fixed by this Agreement or any other Loan Document for any payment or mandatory prepayment of principal, interest, fees or other amounts due to the Lenders (or any of them) hereunder or under any other Loan Document without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby;
(c)           reduce the principal of, or the rate of interest specified herein on, any Loan or L/C Borrowing, or (subject to clause (iv) of the second proviso to this ) any fees or other amounts payable hereunder (including pursuant to ) or under any other Loan Document without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby; , , that (i) only the consent of the Required Lenders shall be necessary to amend the definition of "Default Rate" or to waive any obligation of the Borrower to pay interest at the Default Rate, and (ii) only the consent of the Required Revolving Lenders shall be necessary to waive any obligation of the Borrower to pay Letter of Credit Fees at the Default Rate;
Section 10.01
Section 2.06
provided
however
(d)           change or in a manner that would alter the pro rata sharing of payments required thereby without the written consent of each Lender;
Section 2.14
Section 8.03
(e)           change any provision of this Section or the definition of "Required Lenders", "Required Revolving Lenders" or "Required Term Lenders" or any other provision hereof specifying the number or percentage of Lenders required to amend, waive or otherwise modify any rights hereunder or make any determination or grant any consent hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender (or each Lender of such Class, as the case may be);
(f)            change or waive any condition precedent in to any Revolving Borrowing without the written consent of the Required Revolving Lenders; or
Section 4.02
(g)           release all or substantially all of the Guarantors from their Guarantee without the written consent of each Lender;
75
and , , that (i) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the L/C Issuer in addition to the Lenders required above, affect the rights or duties of the L/C Issuer under this Agreement or any Issuer Document relating to any Letter of Credit issued or to be issued by it; (ii) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Swing Line Lender in addition to the Lenders required above, affect the rights or duties of the Swing Line Lender under this Agreement; (iii) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Administrative Agent in addition to the Lenders required above, affect the rights or duties of the Administrative Agent under this Agreement or any other Loan Document; and (iv) the Fee Letter may be amended, or rights or privileges thereunder waived, in a writing executed only by the parties thereto.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, no Defaulting Lender shall have any right to approve or disapprove any amendment, waiver or consent hereunder, except that the Commitment of such Lender may not be increased or extended without the consent of such Lender.
provided
further
Notwithstanding the fact that the consent of all the Lenders is required in certain circumstances as set forth above, (x) each Lender is entitled to vote as such Lender sees fit on any reorganization plan that affects the Loans or the Letters of Credit, and each Lender acknowledges that the provisions of Section 1126(c) of the Bankruptcy Code supersede the unanimous consent provisions set forth herein and (y) the Required Lenders may consent to allow the Borrower to use cash collateral in the context of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding.
10.02      .
Notices; Effectiveness; Electronic Communication
(a)           .  Except in the case of notices and other communications expressly permitted to be given by telephone (and except as provided in subsection (b) below), all notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by telecopier as follows, and all notices and other communications expressly permitted hereunder to be given by telephone shall be made to the applicable telephone number, as follows:
Notices Generally
(i)            if to the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or the Swing Line Lender, to the address, telecopier number, electronic mail address or telephone number specified for such Person on ; and
Schedule 10.02
(ii)           if to any other Lender, to the address, telecopier number, electronic mail address or telephone number specified in its Administrative Questionnaire.
Notices sent by hand or overnight courier service, or mailed by certified or registered mail, shall be deemed to have been given when received; notices sent by telecopier shall be deemed to have been given when sent (except that, if not given during normal business hours for the recipient, shall be deemed to have been given at the opening of business on the next business day for the recipient).  Notices delivered through electronic communications to the extent provided in subsection (b) below, shall be effective as provided in such subsection (b).
(b)           .  Notices and other communications to the Lenders and the L/C Issuer hereunder may be delivered or furnished by electronic communication (including e-mail and Internet or intranet websites) pursuant to procedures approved by the Administrative Agent, that the foregoing shall not apply to notices to any Lender or the L/C Issuer if such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as applicable, has notified the Administrative Agent that it is incapable of receiving notices under such Article by electronic communication.  The Administrative Agent or the Borrower may, in its discretion, agree to accept notices and other communications to it hereunder by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by it, that approval of such procedures may be limited to particular notices or communications.
Electronic Communications
provided
provided
76
Unless the Administrative Agent otherwise prescribes, (i) notices and other communications sent to an e-mail address shall be deemed received upon the sender's receipt of an acknowledgement from the intended recipient (such as by the "return receipt requested" function, as available, return e-mail or other written acknowledgement), that if such notice or other communication is not sent during the normal business hours of the recipient, such notice or communication shall be deemed to have been sent at the opening of business on the next business day for the recipient, and (ii) notices or communications posted to an Internet or intranet website shall be deemed received upon the deemed receipt by the intended recipient at its e-mail address as described in the foregoing clause (i) of notification that such notice or communication is available and identifying the website address therefor.
provided
(c)           .  Each of the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer and the Swing Line Lender may change its address, telecopier or telephone number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto.  Each other Lender may change its address, telecopier or telephone number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer and the Swing Line Lender.
Change of Address, Etc
(d)           .  The Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer and the Lenders shall be entitled to rely and act upon any notices (including telephonic Committed Loan Notices and Swing Line Loan Notices) purportedly given by or on behalf of the Borrower even if (i) such notices were not made in a manner specified herein, were incomplete or were not preceded or followed by any other form of notice specified herein, or (ii) the terms thereof, as understood by the recipient, varied from any confirmation thereof.  The Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer, each Lender and the Related Parties of each of them from all losses, costs, expenses and liabilities resulting from the reliance by such Person on each notice purportedly given by or on behalf of the Borrower.  All telephonic notices to and other telephonic communications with the Administrative Agent may be recorded by the Administrative Agent, and each of the parties hereto hereby consents to such recording.
Reliance by Administrative Agent, L/C Issuer and Lenders
10.03      .
No Waiver; Cumulative Remedies
No failure by any Lender, the L/C Issuer or the Administrative Agent to exercise, and no delay by any such Person in exercising, any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, remedy, power or privilege.  The rights, remedies, powers and privileges herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any rights, remedies, powers and privileges provided by law.
10.04      .
Expenses; Indemnity; Damage Waiver
(a)           .  The Borrower shall pay (i) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Agents and their Affiliates (including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel for the Administrative Agent), in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein, due diligence, the preparation, negotiation, execution, delivery and administration of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents or any amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions hereof or thereof (whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby shall be consummated), (ii) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the L/C Issuer in connection with the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit or any demand for payment thereunder and (iii) all out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent, any Lender or the L/C Issuer (including
Costs and Expenses
77
the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for the Administrative Agent, any Lender or the L/C Issuer), in connection with the enforcement or protection of its rights (A) in connection with this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, including its rights under this Section, or (B) in connection with the Loans made or Letters of Credit issued hereunder, including all such out-of-pocket expenses incurred during any workout, restructuring or negotiations in respect of such Loans or Letters of Credit.
(b)           .  The Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent (and any sub-agent thereof), each Lender and the L/C Issuer, the Agents and their Affiliates and each Related Party of any of the foregoing Persons (each such Person being called an "") against, and hold each Indemnitee harmless from, any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and related expenses (including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for any Indemnitee), incurred by any Indemnitee or asserted against any Indemnitee by any third party or by the Borrower arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of (i) the execution or delivery of this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby or thereby, the performance by the parties hereto of their respective obligations hereunder or thereunder or the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, (ii) any Loan or Letter of Credit or the use or proposed use of the proceeds therefrom (including any refusal by the L/C Issuer to honor a demand for payment under a Letter of Credit if the documents presented in connection with such demand do not strictly comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit), (iii) any actual or alleged presence or release of Hazardous Materials on or from any property owned or operated by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or any Environmental Liability related in any way to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or (iv) any actual or prospective claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, whether based on contract, tort or any other theory, whether brought by a third party or by the Borrower, and regardless of whether any Indemnitee is a party thereto; that such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses (x) are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee or (y) result from a claim brought by the Borrower against an Indemnitee for breach in bad faith of such Indemnitee's obligations hereunder or under any other Loan Document, if the Borrower has obtained a final and nonappealable judgment in its favor on such claim as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction.
Indemnification by the Borrower
Indemnitee
provided
(c)           .  To the extent that the Borrower for any reason fails to indefeasibly pay any amount required under subsection (a) or (b) of this Section to be paid by it to the Administrative Agent (or any sub-agent thereof), the L/C Issuer or any Related Party of any of the foregoing and without relieving the Borrower of its obligations with respect thereto, each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent), the L/C Issuer or such Related Party, as the case may be, such Lender's Applicable Percentage (determined as of the time that the applicable unreimbursed expense or indemnity payment is sought) of such unpaid amount, that the unreimbursed expense or indemnified loss, claim, damage, liability or related expense, as the case may be, was incurred by or asserted against the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent) or the L/C Issuer in its capacity as such, or against any Related Party of any of the foregoing acting for the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent) or L/C Issuer in connection with such capacity.  The obligations of the Lenders under this subsection (c) are subject to the provisions of .
Reimbursement by Lenders
provided
Section 2.13(d)
(d)           .  To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Borrower shall not assert, and hereby waives, any claim against any Indemnitee, on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages) arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of, this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, any Loan or Letter of Credit or the use of the proceeds thereof.  No Indemnitee referred to in subsection (b) above shall be liable for any damages arising from the use by unintended recipients of any information or other materials distributed by it through telecommunications, electronic or other information transmission systems in connection with this Agreement or the other Loan Documents or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby.
Waiver of Consequential Damages, Etc
78
(e)           .  All amounts due under this Section shall be payable not later than ten Business Days after demand therefor.
Payments
(f)            .  The agreements in this Section shall survive the resignation of the Administrative Agent, the replacement of any Lender, the termination of the Aggregate Commitments and the repayment, satisfaction or discharge of all the other Obligations.
Survival
10.05      .
Payments Set Aside
To the extent that any payment by or on behalf of the Borrower is made to the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or any Lender, or the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or any Lender exercises its right of setoff, and such payment or the proceeds of such setoff or any part thereof is subsequently invalidated, declared to be fraudulent or preferential, set aside or required (including pursuant to any settlement entered into by the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or such Lender in its discretion) to be repaid to a trustee, receiver or any other party, in connection with any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law or otherwise, then (a) to the extent of such recovery, the obligation or part thereof originally intended to be satisfied shall be revived and continued in full force and effect as if such payment had not been made or such setoff had not occurred, and (b) each Lender and the L/C Issuer severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent upon demand its applicable share (without duplication) of any amount so recovered from or repaid by the Administrative Agent, plus interest thereon from the date of such demand to the date such payment is made at a rate per annum equal to the Federal Funds Rate from time to time in effect.  The obligations of the Lenders and the L/C Issuer under clause (b) of the preceding sentence shall survive the payment in full of the Obligations and the termination of this Agreement.
10.06      .
Successors and Assigns
assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent and each Lender and no Lender may assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder except (i) to an assignee in accordance with the provisions of subsection (b) of this Section, (ii) by way of participation in accordance with the provisions of subsection (d) of this Section, (iii) by way of pledge or assignment of a security interest subject to the restrictions of subsection (f) of this Section, or (iv) to an SPC in accordance with the provisions of subsection (h) of this Section (and any other attempted assignment or transfer by any party hereto shall be null and void).  Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, shall be construed to confer upon any Person (other than the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, Participants to the extent provided in subsection (d) of this Section and, to the extent expressly contemplated hereby, the Related Parties of each of the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer and the Lenders) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement.
(a)           .  The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, except that neither the Borrower nor any other Loan Party may
Successors and Assigns Generally
(b)           .  Any Lender may at any time assign to one or more assignees all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans (including for purposes of this subsection (b), participations in L/C Obligations and in Swing Line Loans) at the time owing to it); that any such assignment shall be subject to the following conditions:
Assignments by Lenders
provided
79
(i)            .
Minimum Amounts
(A)          in the case of an assignment of the entire remaining amount of the assigning Lender's Commitment and the Loans at the time owing to it or in the case of an assignment to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund, no minimum amount need be assigned; and
(B)           in any case not described in subsection (b)(i)(A) of this Section, the aggregate amount of the Commitment (which for this purpose includes Loans outstanding thereunder) or, if the Commitment is not then in effect, the principal outstanding balance of the Loans of the assigning Lender subject to each such assignment, determined as of the date the Assignment and Assumption with respect to such assignment is delivered to the Administrative Agent or, if "Trade Date" is specified in the Assignment and Assumption, as of the Trade Date, shall not be less than $5,000,000 in the case of any assignment in respect of Revolving Loans or $1,000,000 in the case of any assignment in respect of Term Loans unless each of the Administrative Agent and, so long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Borrower otherwise consents (each such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed); , , that concurrent assignments to members of an Assignee Group and concurrent assignments from members of an Assignee Group to a single assignee (or to an assignee and members of its Assignee Group) will be treated as a single assignment for purposes of determining whether such minimum amount has been met.
provided
however
(ii)           .  Each partial assignment shall be made as an assignment of a proportionate part of all the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement with respect to the Loans or the Commitment assigned, except that this clause (ii) shall not apply to the Swing Line Lender's rights and obligations in respect of Swing Line Loans;
Proportionate Amounts
(iii)          .  No consent shall be required for any assignment except to the extent required by subsection (b)(i)(B) of this Section and, in addition:
Required Consents
(A)          the consent of the Borrower (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required unless (1) an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing at the time of such assignment or (2) such assignment is to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund;
(B)           the consent of the Administrative Agent (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required if such assignment is to a Person that is not a Lender, an Affiliate of such Lender or an Approved Fund with respect to such Lender;
(C)           the consent of the L/C Issuer (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required for any assignment of a Revolving Commitment that increases the obligation of the assignee to participate in exposure under one or more Letters of Credit (whether or not then outstanding) unless the Person that is the proposed assignee is itself a Revolving Lender (whether or not the proposed assignee would otherwise qualify as an Eligible Assignee); and
(D)          the consent of the Swing Line Lender (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required for any assignment of a Revolving Commitment unless the Person that is the proposed assignee is itself a Revolving Lender (whether or not the proposed assignee would otherwise qualify as an Eligible Assignee).
80
(iv)          .  The parties to each assignment shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent an Assignment and Assumption, together with a processing and recordation fee in the amount of $3,500; , , that the Administrative Agent may, in its sole discretion, elect to waive such processing and recordation fee in the case of any assignment.  The assignee, if it is not a Lender, shall deliver to the Administrative Agent an Administrative Questionnaire.
Assignment and Assumption
provided
however
(v)           .  No such assignment shall be made to the Borrower or any of the Borrower's Affiliates or Subsidiaries.
No Assignment to the Borrower
(vi)          .  No such assignment shall be made to a natural person.
No Assignment to Natural Persons
Subject to acceptance and recording thereof by the Administrative Agent pursuant to subsection (c) of this Section, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Assumption, the Eligible Assignee thereunder shall be a party to this Agreement and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement, and the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Assumption covering all of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto) but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of , , , and with respect to facts and circumstances occurring prior to the effective date of such assignment.  Upon request, the Borrower (at its expense) shall execute and deliver a Note to the assignee Lender.  Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this subsection shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with subsection (d) of this Section.
Sections 3.01
3.04
3.05
10.04
(c)           .  The Administrative Agent, acting solely for this purpose as an agent of the Borrower, shall maintain at the Administrative Agent's Office a copy of each Assignment and Assumption delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Commitments of, and principal amounts of the Loans and L/C Obligations owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the "").  The entries in the Register shall be conclusive, and the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the contrary.  The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrower, the L/C Issuer, the Swing Line Lender and any Lender (with respect to its own interest only), at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
Register
Register
(d)           .  Any Lender may at any time, without the consent of, or notice to, the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, sell participations to any Person (other than a natural person or the Borrower or any of the Borrower's Affiliates or Subsidiaries) (each, a "") in all or a portion of such Lender's rights and/or obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and/or the Loans (including such Lender's participations in L/C Obligations and/or Swing Line Loans) owing to it); that (i) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (ii) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations and (iii) the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the L/C Issuer shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement.
Participations
Participant
provided
81
Any agreement or instrument pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce this Agreement and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any  provision of this Agreement; that such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, waiver or other modification described in the first proviso to that affects such Participant.  Subject to subsection (e) of this Section, the Borrower agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of , and to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to subsection (b) of this Section.  To the extent permitted by law, each Participant also shall be entitled to the benefits of as though it were a Lender, such Participant agrees to be subject to as though it were a Lender.
provided
Section 10.01
Sections 3.01
3.04
3.05
Section 10.08
provided
Section 2.13
(e)           .  A Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under or than the applicable Lender would have been entitled to receive with respect to the participation sold to such Participant, unless the sale of the participation to such Participant is made with the Borrower's prior written consent.  A Participant that would be a Foreign Lender if it were a Lender shall not be entitled to the benefits of unless the Borrower is notified of the participation sold to such Participant and such Participant agrees, for the benefit of the Borrower, to comply with as though it were a Lender.
Limitations upon Participant Rights
Section 3.01
3.04
Section 3.01
Section 3.01(e)
(f)            .  Any Lender may at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement (including under its Note, if any) to secure obligations of such Lender, including any pledge or assignment to secure obligations to a Federal Reserve Bank; that no such pledge or assignment shall release such Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or assignee for such Lender as a party hereto.
Certain Pledges
provided
(g)           .  The words "execution," "signed," "signature," and words of like import in any Assignment and Assumption shall be deemed to include electronic signatures or the keeping of records in electronic form, each of which shall be of the same legal effect, validity or enforceability as a manually executed signature or the use of a paper-based recordkeeping system, as the case may be, to the extent and as provided for in any applicable law, including the Federal Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act, the New York State Electronic Signatures and Records Act, or any other similar state laws based on the Uniform Electronic Transactions Act.
Electronic Execution of Assignments
(h)           .  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, any Lender (a "") may grant to a special purpose funding vehicle identified as such in writing from time to time by the Granting Lender to the Administrative Agent and the Borrower (an "") the option to provide all or any part of any Committed Loan that such Granting Lender would otherwise be obligated to make pursuant to this Agreement; that (i) nothing herein shall constitute a commitment by any SPC to fund any Committed Loan, and (ii) if an SPC elects not to exercise such option or otherwise fails to make all or any part of such Committed Loan, the Granting Lender shall be obligated to make such Committed Loan pursuant to the terms hereof or, if it fails to do so, to make such payment to the Administrative Agent as is required under .  Each party hereto hereby agrees that (i) neither the grant to any SPC nor the exercise by any SPC of such option shall increase the costs or expenses or otherwise increase or change the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement (including its obligations under ), (ii) no SPC shall be liable for any indemnity or similar payment obligation under this Agreement for which a Lender would be liable, and (iii) the Granting Lender shall for all purposes, including the approval of any amendment, waiver or other modification of any provision of any Loan Document, remain the lender of record hereunder.  The making of a Committed Loan by an SPC hereunder shall utilize the Commitment of the Granting Lender to the same extent, and as if, such Committed Loan were made by such Granting Lender.  In furtherance of the foregoing, each party hereto hereby agrees (which agreement shall survive the
Special Purpose Funding Vehicles
Granting Lender
SPC
provided
Section 2.13(b)(ii)
Section 3.04
82
termination of this Agreement) that, prior to the date that is one year and one day after the payment in full of all outstanding commercial paper or other senior debt of any SPC, it will not institute against, or join any other Person in instituting against, such SPC any bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, insolvency, or liquidation proceeding under the laws of the United States or any State thereof.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, any SPC may (i) with notice to, but without prior consent of the Borrower and the Administrative Agent and with the payment of a processing fee in the amount of $3,500 (which processing fee may be waived by the Administrative Agent in its sole discretion), assign all or any portion of its right to receive payment with respect to any Committed Loan to the Granting Lender and (ii) disclose on a confidential basis any non-public information relating to its funding of Committed Loans to any rating agency, commercial paper dealer or provider of any surety or Guarantee or credit or liquidity enhancement to such SPC.
(i)            .  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, if at any time Bank of America assigns all of its Commitment and Loans pursuant to subsection (b) above, Bank of America may, (i) upon 30 days' notice to the Borrower and the Lenders, resign as L/C Issuer and/or (ii) upon 30 days' notice to the Borrower, resign as Swing Line Lender.  In the event of any such resignation as L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender, the Borrower shall be entitled to appoint from among the Lenders a successor L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender hereunder; , , that no failure by the Borrower to appoint any such successor shall affect the resignation of Bank of America as L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender, as the case may be.  If Bank of America resigns as L/C Issuer, it shall retain all the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the L/C Issuer hereunder with respect to all Letters of Credit outstanding as of the effective date of its resignation as L/C Issuer and all L/C Obligations with respect thereto (including the right to require the Lenders to make Base Rate Committed Loans or fund risk participations in Unreimbursed Amounts pursuant to ).  If Bank of America resigns as Swing Line Lender, it shall retain all the rights of the Swing Line Lender provided for hereunder with respect to Swing Line Loans made by it and outstanding as of the effective date of such resignation, including the right to require the Lenders to make Base Rate Committed Loans or fund risk participations in outstanding Swing Line Loans pursuant to .  Upon the appointment of a successor L/C Issuer and/or Swing Line Lender, (a) such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender, as the case may be, and (b) the successor L/C Issuer shall issue letters of credit in substitution for the Letters of Credit, if any, outstanding at the time of such succession or make other arrangements satisfactory to Bank of America to effectively assume the obligations of Bank of America with respect to such Letters of Credit.
Resignation as L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender after Assignment
provided
however
Section 2.03(c)
Section 2.04(c)
10.07      .
Treatment of Certain Information; Confidentiality
Each of the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the L/C Issuer agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (a) to its Affiliates and to its and its Affiliates' respective partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, advisors and representatives (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential), (b) to the extent requested by any regulatory authority purporting to have jurisdiction over it (including any self-regulatory authority, such as the National Association of Insurance Commissioners), (c) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process, (d) to any other party hereto, (e) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or under any other Loan Document or any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or any other Loan Document or the enforcement of rights hereunder or thereunder, (f) subject to an agreement containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section, to (i) any assignee of or Participant in, or any prospective assignee of or Participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement or (ii) any actual or prospective counterparty (or its advisors) to any swap or derivative transaction relating to the Borrower
83
and its obligations, (g) with the consent of the Borrower, (h) to the extent such Information (x) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section or (y) becomes available to the Administrative Agent, any Lender, the L/C Issuer or any of their respective Affiliates on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than the Borrower that the Administrative Agent, any such Lender or the L/C Issuer reasonably believes is not bound by a duty of confidentiality to the Borrower
or (i) as reasonably required by any Lender or other Person providing financing to such Lender ( such Lenders or other Persons are advised of the confidential nature of such information and agree to keep such information confidential)
provided
.
For purposes of this Section, "" means all information received from the Borrower or any Subsidiary relating to the Borrower or any Subsidiary or any of their respective businesses, other than any such information that is available to the Administrative Agent, any Lender or the L/C Issuer on a nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure by the Borrower or any Subsidiary, that, in the case of information received from the Borrower or any Subsidiary after the date hereof, such information is clearly identified at the time of delivery as confidential.  Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information.
Information
provided
10.08      .
Right of Setoff
If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, each Lender, the L/C Issuer and each of their respective Affiliates is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final, in whatever currency) at any time held and other obligations (in whatever currency) at any time owing by such Lender, the L/C Issuer or any such Affiliate to or for the credit or the account of the Borrower against any and all of the obligations of the Borrower now or hereafter existing under this Agreement or any other Loan Document to such Lender or the L/C Issuer, irrespective of whether or not such Lender or the L/C Issuer shall have made any demand under this Agreement or any other Loan Document and although such obligations of the Borrower may be contingent or unmatured or are owed to a branch or office of such Lender or the L/C Issuer different from the branch or office holding such deposit or obligated on such indebtedness.  The rights of each Lender, the L/C Issuer and their respective Affiliates under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of setoff) that such Lender, the L/C Issuer or their respective Affiliates may have.  Each Lender and the L/C Issuer agrees to notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent promptly after any such setoff and application, that the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such setoff and application.
provided
10.09      .
Interest Rate Limitation
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any Loan Document, the interest paid or agreed to be paid under the Loan Documents shall not exceed the maximum rate of non-usurious interest permitted by applicable Law (the "").  If the Administrative Agent or any Lender shall receive interest in an amount that exceeds the Maximum Rate, the excess interest shall be applied to the principal of the Loans or, if it exceeds such unpaid principal, refunded to the Borrower.  In determining whether the interest contracted for, charged, or received by the Administrative Agent or a Lender exceeds the Maximum Rate, such Person may, to the extent permitted by applicable Law, (a) characterize any payment that is not principal as an expense, fee, or premium rather than interest, (b) exclude voluntary prepayments and the effects thereof, and (c) amortize, prorate, allocate, and spread in equal or unequal parts the total amount of interest throughout the contemplated term of the Obligations hereunder.
Maximum Rate
84
10.10      .
Counterparts; Integration; Effectiveness
This Agreement may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto in different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract.  This Agreement and the other Loan Documents constitute the entire contract among the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersede any and all previous agreements and understandings, oral or written, relating to the subject matter hereof.  Except as provided in , this Agreement shall become effective when it shall have been executed by the Administrative Agent and when the Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts hereof that, when taken together, bear the signatures of each of the other parties hereto.  Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Agreement by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement.
Section 4.01
10.11      .
Survival of Representations and Warranties
All representations and warranties made hereunder and in any other Loan Document or other document delivered pursuant hereto or thereto or in connection herewith or therewith shall survive the execution and delivery hereof and thereof.  Such representations and warranties have been or will be relied upon by the Administrative Agent and each Lender, regardless of any investigation made by the Administrative Agent or any Lender or on their behalf and notwithstanding that the Administrative Agent or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of any Default at the time of any Credit Extension, and shall continue in full force and effect as long as any Loan or any other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied or any Letter of Credit shall remain outstanding.
10.12      .
Severability
If any provision of this Agreement or the other Loan Documents is held to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable, (a) the legality, validity and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall not be affected or impaired thereby and (b) the parties shall endeavor in good faith negotiations to replace the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions with valid provisions the economic effect of which comes as close as possible to that of the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions.  The invalidity of a provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.
10.13      .
Replacement of Lenders
If any Lender requests compensation under , or if the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to , if any Lender is a Defaulting Lender, then the Borrower may, at its sole expense and effort, upon notice to such Lender and the Administrative Agent, require such Lender to assign and delegate, without recourse (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in, and consents required by, ), all of its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement and the related Loan Documents to an assignee that shall assume such obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment), that:
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
Section 10.06
provided
(a)           the Borrower shall have paid to the Administrative Agent the assignment fee specified in ;
Section 10.06(b)
(b)           such Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Loans and L/C Advances, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder and under the other Loan Documents (including any amounts under ) from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or the Borrower (in the case of all other amounts);
Section 3.05
85
(c)           in the case of any such assignment resulting from a claim for compensation under or payments required to be made pursuant to , such assignment will result in a reduction in such compensation or payments thereafter; and
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
(d)           such assignment does not conflict with applicable Laws.
A Lender shall not be required to make any such assignment or delegation if, prior thereto, as a result of a waiver by such Lender or otherwise, the circumstances entitling the Borrower to require such assignment and delegation cease to apply.
10.14      .
Governing Law; Jurisdiction; Etc
(a)           .  THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO CONFLICTS OF LAWS PRINCIPLES THAT WOULD REQUIRE THE APPLICATION OF THE LAWS OF ANOTHER JURISDICTION.
GOVERNING LAW
(b)           .  EACH LOAN PARTY IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY SUBMITS, FOR ITSELF AND ITS PROPERTY, TO THE NONEXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THE COURTS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SITTING IN NEW YORK COUNTY AND OF THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT OF THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK, AND ANY APPELLATE COURT FROM ANY THEREOF, IN ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT, OR FOR RECOGNITION OR ENFORCEMENT OF ANY JUDGMENT, AND EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY AGREES THAT ALL CLAIMS IN RESPECT OF ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING MAY BE HEARD AND DETERMINED IN SUCH NEW YORK STATE COURT OR, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, IN SUCH FEDERAL COURT.  EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO AGREES THAT A FINAL JUDGMENT IN ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING SHALL BE CONCLUSIVE AND MAY BE ENFORCED IN OTHER JURISDICTIONS BY SUIT ON THE JUDGMENT OR IN ANY OTHER MANNER PROVIDED BY LAW.  NOTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT OR IN ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT SHALL AFFECT ANY RIGHT THAT THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT, ANY LENDER OR THE L/C ISSUER MAY OTHERWISE HAVE TO BRING ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT AGAINST THE BORROWER OR ITS PROPERTIES IN THE COURTS OF ANY JURISDICTION.
SUBMISSION TO JURISDICTION
(c)           .  EACH LOAN PARTY IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY OBJECTION THAT IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE TO THE LAYING OF VENUE OF ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT IN ANY COURT REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH (B) OF THIS SECTION.  EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, THE DEFENSE OF AN INCONVENIENT FORUM TO THE MAINTENANCE OF SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING IN ANY SUCH COURT.
WAIVER OF VENUE
86
(d)           .  EACH PARTY HERETO IRREVOCABLY CONSENTS TO SERVICE OF PROCESS IN THE MANNER PROVIDED FOR NOTICES IN .  NOTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT WILL AFFECT THE RIGHT OF ANY PARTY HERETO TO SERVE PROCESS IN ANY OTHER MANNER PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW.
SERVICE OF PROCESS
SECTION 10.02
10.15      .
Waiver of Jury Trial
EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY OR THEREBY (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER THEORY).  EACH PARTY HERETO (A) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PERSON HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PERSON WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO HAVE BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION.
10.16      .
No Advisory or Fiduciary Responsibility
In connection with all aspects of each transaction contemplated hereby, the Borrower and each other Loan Party acknowledges and agrees, and acknowledges its Affiliates' understanding, that: (i) the credit facilities provided for hereunder and any related arranging or other services in connection therewith (including in connection with any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof or of any other Loan Document) are an arm's-length commercial transaction between the Borrower, each other Loan Party and their respective Affiliates, on the one hand, and the Administrative Agent and each Arranger, on the other hand, and the Borrower and each other Loan Party is capable of evaluating and understanding and understands and accepts the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated hereby and by the other Loan Documents (including any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof or thereof); (ii) in connection with the process leading to such transaction, the Administrative Agent and each Arranger is and has been acting solely as a principal and is not the financial advisor, agent or fiduciary, for the Borrower, any other Loan Party or any of their respective Affiliates, stockholders, creditors or employees or any other Person; (iii) neither the Administrative Agent nor any Arranger has assumed or will assume an advisory, agency or fiduciary responsibility in favor of the Borrower or any other Loan Party with respect to any of the transactions contemplated hereby or the process leading thereto, including with respect to any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof or of any other Loan Document (irrespective of whether the Administrative Agent or any Arranger has advised or is currently advising the Borrower, any other Loan Party or any of their respective Affiliates on other matters) and neither the Administrative Agent nor any Arranger has any obligation to the Borrower, any other Loan Party or any of their respective Affiliates with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby except those obligations expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents; (iv) the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers and their respective Affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Borrower, the other Loan Parties and their respective Affiliates, and neither the Administrative Agent nor any Arranger has any obligation to disclose any of such interests by virtue of any advisory, agency or fiduciary relationship; and (v) the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers have not provided and will not provide any legal, accounting, regulatory or tax advice with respect to any of the transactions contemplated hereby (including any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof or of any other Loan Document) and each of the Borrower and the other Loan Parties has consulted its own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it has deemed appropriate.  Each of the Borrower and the other Loan Parties hereby waives and releases, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any claims that it may have against the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers with respect to any breach or alleged breach of agency or fiduciary duty.
87
10.17      .
USA Patriot Act Notice
Each Lender that is subject to the Patriot Act (as hereinafter defined) and the Administrative Agent (for itself and not on behalf of any Lender) hereby notifies the Borrower that pursuant to the requirements of the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the ""), it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Borrower, which information includes the name and address of the Borrower and other information that will allow such Lender or the Administrative Agent, as applicable, to identify the Borrower in accordance with the Patriot Act.
Patriot Act
10.18      .
Delivery of Signature Page
Each Lender to become a party to this Agreement on the date hereof shall do so by delivering to the Administrative Agent a counterpart of this Agreement duly executed by such Lender.
11.01      .
The Guaranty
Each of the Guarantors hereby jointly and severally guarantees to each Lender, each Affiliate of a Lender that enters into a Swap Contract or a Treasury Management Agreement, and the Administrative Agent as hereinafter provided, as primary obligor and not as surety, the prompt payment of the Obligations in full when due (whether at stated maturity, as a mandatory prepayment, by acceleration, as a mandatory cash collateralization or otherwise) strictly in accordance with the terms thereof.  The Guarantors hereby further agree that if any of the Obligations are not paid in full when due (whether at stated maturity, as a mandatory prepayment, by acceleration as a mandatory cash collateralization or otherwise), the Guarantors will, jointly and severally, promptly pay the same, without any demand or notice whatsoever, and that in the case of any extension of time of payment or renewal of any of the Obligations, the same will be promptly paid in full when due (whether at extended maturity, as a mandatory prepayment, by acceleration, as a mandatory cash collateralization or otherwise) in accordance with the terms of such extension or renewal.
Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary herein or in any other of the Loan Documents or Swap Contracts or Treasury Management Agreements, the obligations of each Guarantor under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall be limited to an aggregate amount equal to the largest amount that would not render such obligations subject to avoidance under the Debtor Relief Laws or any comparable provisions of any applicable state law.
11.02      .
Obligations Unconditional
The obligations of the Guarantors under are joint and several, absolute and unconditional, irrespective of the value, genuineness, validity, regularity or enforceability of any of the Loan Documents, Swap Contracts or Treasury Management Agreements, or any other agreement or instrument referred to therein, or any substitution, release, impairment or exchange of any other guarantee of or security for any of the Obligations, and, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law,
Section 11.01
88
irrespective of any other circumstance whatsoever which might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of a surety or guarantor (other than the payment of the Obligations), it being the intent of this that the obligations of the Guarantors hereunder shall be absolute and unconditional under any and all circumstances (other than the payment of the Obligations).  Each Guarantor agrees that such Guarantor shall not exercise any right of subrogation, indemnity, reimbursement or contribution against the Borrower or any other Guarantor for amounts paid under this until such time as the Obligations have been fully satisfied.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, it is agreed that, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the occurrence of any one or more of the following shall not alter or impair the liability of any Guarantor hereunder which shall remain absolute and unconditional as described above:
Section 11.02
Article XI
(a)           at any time or from time to time, without notice to any Guarantor, the time for any performance of or compliance with any of the Obligations shall be extended, or such performance or compliance shall be waived;
(b)           any of the acts mentioned in any of the provisions of any of the Loan Documents, any Swap Contract or any Treasury Management Agreement between any Lender and any Affiliate of a Lender, or any other agreement or instrument referred to in the Loan Documents or such Swap Contracts shall be done or omitted;
(c)           the maturity of any of the Obligations shall be accelerated, or any of the Obligations shall be modified, supplemented or amended in any respect, or any right under any of the Loan Documents, any Swap Contract or any Treasury Management Agreement between any Lender and any Affiliate of a Lender, or any other agreement or instrument referred to in the Loan Documents or such Swap Contracts or such Treasury Management Agreements shall be waived or any other guarantee of any of the Obligations or any security therefor shall be released, impaired or exchanged in whole or in part or otherwise dealt with;
(d)           any Lien granted to, or in favor of, the Administrative Agent or any Lender or Lenders as security for any of the Obligations shall fail to attach or be perfected; or
(e)           any of the Obligations shall be determined to be void or voidable (including, without limitation, for the benefit of any creditor of any Guarantor) or shall be subordinated to the claims of any Person (including, without limitation, any creditor of any Guarantor).
With respect to its obligations hereunder, each Guarantor hereby expressly waives diligence, presentment, demand of payment, protest and all notices whatsoever, any law, regulation, decree or order of any jurisdiction or any event affecting any term of the Obligations and any requirement that the Administrative Agent or any Lender exhaust any right, power or remedy or proceed against any Person under any of the Loan Documents, any Swap Contract or any Treasury Management Agreement between any Consolidated Party and any Lender, or any Affiliate of a Lender, or any other agreement or instrument referred to in the Loan Documents or such Swap Contracts or such Treasury Management Agreements, or against any other Person under any other guarantee of, or security for, any of the Obligations.
11.03      .
Reinstatement
The obligations of the Guarantors under this shall be automatically reinstated if and to the extent that for any reason any payment by or on behalf of any Person in respect of the Obligations is rescinded or must be otherwise restored by any holder of any of the Obligations, whether as a result of any proceedings in bankruptcy or reorganization or otherwise, and each Guarantor agrees that it will
Article XI
89
indemnify the Administrative Agent and each Lender within 10 days of written demand (together with back up documentation supporting such reimbursement) for all reasonable costs and expenses (including, without limitation, reasonable fees and expenses of counsel) incurred by the Administrative Agent or such Lender in connection with such rescission or restoration, including any such costs and expenses incurred in defending against any claim alleging that such payment constituted a preference, fraudulent transfer or similar payment under any bankruptcy, insolvency or similar law.
11.04      .
Certain Additional Waivers
Each Guarantor agrees that such Guarantor shall have no right of recourse to security for the Obligations, except through the exercise of rights of subrogation pursuant to and through the exercise of rights of contribution pursuant to .
Section 11.02
Section 11.06
11.05      .
Remedies
The Guarantors agree that, to the fullest extent permitted by law, as between the Guarantors, on the one hand, and the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, on the other hand, the Obligations may be declared to be forthwith due and payable as provided in (and shall be deemed to have become automatically due and payable in the circumstances provided in said ) for purposes of notwithstanding any stay, injunction or other prohibition preventing such declaration (or preventing the Obligations from becoming automatically due and payable) as against any other Person and that, in the event of such declaration (or the Obligations being deemed to have become automatically due and payable), the Obligations (whether or not due and payable by any other Person) shall forthwith become due and payable by the Guarantors for purposes of .
Section 8.02
Section 8.02
Section 11.01
Section 11.01
11.06      .
Rights of Contribution
The Guarantors hereby agree as among themselves that, in connection with payments made hereunder, each Guarantor shall have a right of contribution from each other Guarantor in accordance with applicable Law.  Such contribution rights shall be subordinate and subject in right of payment to the Obligations until such time as the Obligations have been fully satisfied, and none of the Guarantors shall exercise any such contribution rights relating to payments made hereunder until the Obligations have been fully satisfied.
11.07      .
Guarantee of Payment; Continuing Guarantee
The guarantee in this is a guaranty of payment and not of collection, is a continuing guarantee, and shall apply to all Obligations whenever arising.
Article XI
90
Each of the parties hereto have caused a counterpart of this Agreement to be duly executed as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Health Care Property Investors, Inc. Completes Merger with CNL Retirement Properties, Inc.
Business Editors/Real Estate Writers
LONG BEACH, Calif.(BUSINESS WIRE)Oct. 5, 2006Health Care Property Investors, Inc. (NYSE:HCP), the nation's largest healthcare real estate investment trust (REIT), announced today the closing of the merger of CNL Retirement Properties, Inc. (CRP) with a wholly owned subsidiary of HCP for an aggregate consideration of approximately $5.3 billion. In the merger, each share of CRP common stock has been converted into the right to receive a cash payment of $11.1293 and 0.0865 of a share of HCP common stock, and HCP assumed or refinanced approximately $1.7 billion of CRP's outstanding debt. Simultaneously, a subsidiary of HCP also merged with CNL Retirement Corp., the external advisor to CRP.
HCP also announced today that, in connection with the completion of the merger, it closed on new bridge, term and revolving credit facilities providing for aggregate borrowings of up to $3.4 billion with a syndicate of banks for which Bank of America, N.A. acted as administrative agent and Bank of America Securities LLC and UBS Securities LLC acted as joint lead arrangers.
As of today, HCP owns the nation's largest portfolio of independent and assisted living communities, healthcare facilities and medical office buildings. As a result of the transaction, HCP will have enhanced scale, financial resources and operating flexibility to capitalize on investment opportunities in one of the nation's most attractive industries.
About Health Care Property Investors, Inc.
Health Care Property Investors, Inc., headquartered in Long Beach, Calif., is a self-administered real estate investment trust that invests directly or through joint ventures in healthcare facilities. As of June 30, 2006, HCP's portfolio of properties, excluding assets held for sale but including investments through joint ventures and mortgage loans, included 534 properties in 42 states and consisted of 143 senior housing facilities, 182 medical office buildings, 29 hospitals, 155 skilled nursing facilities and 25 other healthcare facilities. Giving effect to the CRP merger, as of June 30, 2006, HCP's portfolio of properties, excluding assets held for sale but including investments through joint ventures and mortgage loans, included 807 properties in 44 states and consisted of 327 senior housing facilities, 271 medical office buildings, 29 hospitals, 155 skilled nursing facilities and 25 other healthcare facilities. For more information on Health Care Property Investors, Inc. visit HCP's website at www.hcpi.com.
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: The statements contained in this release which are not historical facts are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements, which include statements regarding enhanced scale, financial resources and operating flexibility, implementation and execution of HCP's strategies and expected future growth for HCP and the prospects generally of HCP, are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in or implied by forward-looking statements. These include risks and uncertainties with respect to the ability of HCP to integrate the acquired companies or to preserve the goodwill of the acquired companies; the ability to achieve benefits from the mergers; competition for the acquisition and financing of healthcare facilities; competition for lessees and mortgagors (including new leases and mortgages and the renewal or rollover of existing leases); continuing operational difficulties in the skilled nursing and assisted living sectors; HCP's ability to acquire, sell or lease facilities or to enter into joint ventures with respect to facilities and the timing of acquisitions, sales and leasings and of joint ventures; changes in healthcare laws and regulations and other changes in the healthcare industry which affect the operations of HCP's lessees or mortgagors; changes in management; costs of compliance with building regulations; changes in tax laws and regulations; changes in the financial position of HCP's lessees and mortgagors; changes in rules governing financial reporting, including new accounting pronouncements; and changes in economic conditions, including changes in interest rates and the availability and cost of capital, which affect opportunities for profitable investments. Some of these risks, and other risks, are described from time to time in Health Care Property Investors, Inc.'s Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
CONTACT: Health Care Property Investors, Inc. Mark A. Wallace, Senior Vice President - - Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, 562-733-5100

EXHIBIT 99.2
The expenses to be incurred by HCP in connection with sale of shares of common stock, par value $1.00 per share, pursuant to a Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-137225) and a related Prospectus Supplement to be filed on the date hereof with the Securities and Exchange Commission are estimated to be as follows:
 


