FILE:HCP/HCP-8K-20070109171505.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
Item 8.01
Other Events.
                                            
As previously reported on a current report on Form 8-K filed on October 12, 2006, on October 5, 2006 the registrant completed acquisitions of CNL Retirement Properties, Inc. ("CRP") and CNL Retirement Corp., the external advisor to CRP (the "Advisor") (together the "CRP Acquisitions"). HCP is filing this Form 8-K to provide financial information with respect to the CRP Acquisitions, CRP and the Advisor. Specifically, this current report on Form 8-K provides: (1) the registrant's unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements relating to the CRP Acquisitions, which are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1; (2) CRP's unaudited condensed financial statements as of September 30, 2006 and for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 and 2005, which are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and (3) the Advisor's unaudited condensed financial statements as of September 30, 2006 and for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 and 2005, which are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.3. The information in Exhibits 99.1, 99.2 and 99.3 is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
                                            
Exhibits.  The following exhibits are being filed herewith:
(d)
                 
HCP Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements as of September 30, 2006, and for the year ended December 31, 2005 and the nine months ended September 30, 2006
99.1
           
CRP Financial Statements as of September 30, 2006 and for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 and 2005
99.2
           
Advisor Financial Statements as of September 30, 2006 and for the nine months ended September 31, 2006 and 2005
99.3
           
2
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
UNAUDITED PRO FORMA CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements presented below have been prepared based on certain pro forma adjustments to the historical consolidated financial statements of HCP, CRP and the Advisor as of and for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 and for the year ended December 31, 2005. The historical consolidated financial statements of HCP are contained in its Current Report on Form 8-K as filed with the SEC on January 5, 2007, for the year ended December 31, 2005 and in its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q as of and for the nine months ended September 30, 2006. The historical consolidated financial statements of CRP and the Advisor, as of and for the nine months ended September 30, 2006, are included as Exhibits 99.2 and 99.3 to this Current Report on Form 8-K. The historical consolidated financial statements of CRP and the Advisor are contained in our Current Report on Form 8-K as filed with the SEC on August 4, 2006, for the year ended December 31, 2005. The historical financial information with respect to HCP and CRP for the year ended December 31, 2005 has been restated to reflect as discontinued operations the results of operations of certain properties that were initially classified as discontinued operations during the nine months ended September 30, 2006. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements relate to the merger of CRP with and into Ocean Acquisition 1, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of HCP, which is referred to in this section as the Merger, and the merger of the Advisor with and into Ocean Acquisition 2, LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of HCP, which is referred to in this section as the Advisor Merger. The accompanying unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated balance sheet as of September 30, 2006 has been prepared as if the Merger and the Advisor Merger and the incurrence of debt by HCP to finance the acquisitions of CRP and the Advisor had occurred as of that date.
The accompanying unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statements of income for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 and for the year ended December 31, 2005 have been prepared as if the Merger and the Advisor Merger had occurred as of January 1, 2005 and reflect the incurrence of debt by HCP in order to finance the acquisition of CRP, including the cash consideration needed for the Merger. The allocation of the purchase price of CRP and the Advisor as reflected in these unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements has, with the assistance of independent valuation specialists, been based upon preliminary estimates of the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed. In the opinion of HCP's management, all significant adjustments necessary to reflect the effects of the Merger and the Advisor Merger that can be factually supported within the SEC regulations covering the preparation of pro forma financial statements have been made.
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements are provided for informational purposes only. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements are not necessarily and should not be assumed to be an indication of the results that would have been achieved had the transactions been completed as of the dates indicated or that may be achieved in the future. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated balance sheet does not include restructuring charges and other related liabilities expected to result from HCP's integration of CRP and the Advisor. In addition, the completion of the valuation and the impact of ongoing integration activities could cause material differences in the information presented. Furthermore, following consummation of the transaction, HCP expects to apply its own methodologies and judgments in accounting for the assets and liabilities acquired in the transaction, which may differ from those reflected in CRP's historical financial statements and the pro forma financial statements.
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the respective historical financial statements and the notes thereto of HCP, CRP and the Advisor.
2
 
 
3
 
 
4
 
 
 
5
HEALTH CARE PROPERTY INVESTORS, INC.
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the respective historical financial statements and the notes thereto of HCP, CRP and the Advisor.
Includes reclassification of HCP Income taxes from "General and administrative" to a separate line item.
(A)
         
Includes the following reclassifications to conform certain CRP amounts to HCP's presentation:
(B)
          
Balance Sheet:
Loans receivable have been reclassified to "Loans receivable, netJoint venture partners and affiliates" from "Other assets, net".
    
Statement of Income:
"Seniors' housing rental income," "FF&E reserve income," "Contingent rent," and "Medical facilities rental income and other revenues" have been reclassified to "Rental and other revenues".
    
"Seniors' housing property expenses" and "Medical facilities operating expenses" have been reclassified to "Operating".
    
"Provision for doubtful accounts" has been reclassified to "General and administrative".
    
Income taxes have been reclassified from "General and administrative" to a separate line item.
    
In the Merger, each CRP stockholder received 0.0865 of a share of HCP common stock and $11.1293 in cash, without interest, for each share of CRP common stock that the stockholder owned immediately prior to the effective date of the Merger.
(C)
          
For purposes of the unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated balance sheet presentation, the total purchase price is based on the number of shares of CRP common stock outstanding at September 30, 2006 and $26.53, which represents the average of closing trading prices for each of the two trading days before, the day, and the two trading days after the Merger was announced (April 28, and May 1, 2, 3 and 4, 2006). The calculation of the Merger consideration and total purchase price follows (dollar amounts in thousands):
 
6
The calculation of the estimated fees and other expenses related to the Merger is as follows (in thousands):
 
CRP's real estate assets have been adjusted to their estimated fair values as of September 30, 2006 and CRP's historical accumulated depreciation balance is eliminated when real estate assets are recorded at fair value.
(D)
         
Adjustment reflects CRP's existing fixed rate direct financing leases at their estimated fair value based on HCP management's estimates of current market rates for direct financing leases.
(E)
          
Adjustments to CRP's historical balance of intangible assets are as follows (in thousands):
(F)
          
 
Adjustment reflects the elimination of CRP's historical goodwill.
(G)
          
Adjustments to CRP's historical balance of other assets are as follows (in thousands):
(H)
         
 
Borrowings under lines of credit, short-term borrowings and issuance of senior notes were used to fund the cash consideration and other associated costs of the Merger aggregating $3.4 billion. HCP: (i) issued $1.0 billion of senior notes with a term of between two to ten years; (ii) obtained a 365-day bridge loan of $0.7 billion; (iii) obtained a 2-year term loan of $1.7 billion; and (iv) borrowed approximately $458.0 million on its existing lines of credit. 
(I)
           
HCP used the above borrowings to pay; (i) the outstanding balance of CRP's line of credit of $216.0 million, mortgage debt of $171.2 million in the aggregate and $120 million of senior notes (ii) combined transaction costs of the Merger and the Advisor Merger of $34.6 million and the costs associated with the above debt issued in the Merger of $17.3 million and (iii) the cash consideration of the Merger.
Adjustment reflects CRP's existing fixed rate debt at its estimated fair value based on HCP management's estimates of the interest rates that would be available to HCP for the issuance of debt with similar terms and remaining maturities. The fixed rate debt of CRP was assumed by HCP in the Merger. The interest rates on
 (J)
          
7
the assumed debt are considered to be slightly below market. Estimated market interest rates assumed to compute the fair value adjustments of CRP's existing fixed rate debt ranged from 5.79% to 6.57%.
Adjustments to CRP's historical balance of other liabilities are as follows (in thousands):
(K)
         
 
Adjustments represent the elimination of historical CRP balances and the issuance of shares of HCP common stock in the Merger. The shares of HCP common stock issued are valued as follows (in thousands, except share and per share data):
(L)
          
 
The total value of the shares of HCP common stock issued is presented as follows:
 
HCP has also agreed to acquire the Advisor for 4,378,918 shares of HCP common stock. The Merger and the Advisor Merger were each conditioned upon the consummation of the other.
(M)
        
For purposes of the unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated balance sheet presentation, the total purchase price is based on an average trading price of HCP's common stock of $26.53, which represents the average of the closing prices for each of the two trading days before, the day, and the two trading days after the Merger was announced (April 28, and May, 1, 2, 3 and 4, 2006). The calculation of the Advisor Merger consideration and total purchase price is as follows (dollar amounts in thousands):
8
 
 
The calculation of the estimated fees and other expenses related to the Advisor Merger is as follows:
 
Adjustment reflects the cash of $270,000 that the Advisor will receive in exchange for CRP shares owned by it, with a book value of $200,000 at September 30, 2006.
(N)
         
Represents intangible assets associated with the advisory agreement between the Advisor and CRP of $54.4 million, employee non-compete agreements of $2.9 million, a non-compete agreement with CNL Financial Group, CNL Real Estate Group and two other named individuals of $21.3 million, and obligations in the aggregate of $6.0 million to various officers of the Advisor.
(O)
         
Represents the recognition of goodwill for the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
(P)
          
Other assets and liabilities have been adjusted to their estimated fair values.
(Q)
         
Adjustments reflect the elimination of historical Advisor equity balances and the issuance of shares of HCP common stock in the Advisor Merger. The shares of HCP common stock issued are valued as follows (in thousands, except share and per share data):
(R)
          
 
The total value of the shares of HCP common stock issued is reported as follows:
 
Represents the elimination of the intangible for advisory agreement between the Advisor and CRP of $54.4 million, which is an asset to the Advisor and an obligation to CRP (See Note K and Note O), and the elimination of amounts payable of $484,000 to the Advisor from CRP.
(S)
          
9
Adjustments to rental income and other revenues are as follows (in thousands):
(T)
          
 
Adjustments to interest expense are as follows (in thousands):
 (U)
        
 
The pro forma increase in interest expense as a result of the issuance of new debt in the Merger is calculated using rates for the lines of credit and short-term borrowings issued on October 5, 2006 (the date that the Merger was completed). Each 1/8 of 1% increase in the annual interest assumed with respect to the debt will increase pro forma interest expense by $4.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 and $3.1.million for the nine months ended September 30, 2006.
Adjustments to depreciation expense are as follows (in thousands):
(V)
          
 
10
An estimated useful life of 35 years was assumed to compute the adjustment to real estate depreciation. For assets and liabilities associated with the value of in-place leases, a weighted-average remaining lease term of 7.1 years was used to compute amortization expense.
Operating expenses are adjusted to include amortization of below-market ground lease intangibles.
(W)
        
Depreciation and amortization is adjusted to include the amortization of non-compete contract intangibles. A 4 year period was used to compute amortization expense.
(X)
         
Management of HCP expects that the Merger and Advisor Merger will create operational and general and administrative cost savings, including property management costs, costs associated with corporate administrative functions and executive compensation. There can be no assurance that HCP will be successful in achieving these anticipated cost savings. No estimate of these expected future cost savings has been included in the pro forma financial statements. Such adjustments cannot be factually supported within the SEC regulations governing the preparation of pro forma financial statements until such time as the operations of the companies have been fully integrated. Additionally, no adjustment has been made for anticipated property tax increases resulting from the Merger since HCP expects that such increases will not be significant.
Income taxes of the Advisor have been eliminated as a result of the Advisor Merger, which is assumed as of January 1, 2005. As a condition to closing of the Merger with CRP, the Advisor Merger is assumed to have been consummated; at the closing of the Advisor Merger, the Advisor will be merged into a Qualifying REIT Subsidiary "QRS", which assuming the Advisor Merger was effective as of January 1, 2005, would eliminate the Advisor's income tax obligations.
(Y)
          
The calculations of basic and diluted earnings from continuing operations attributable to common stock per share are as follows (in thousands, except per share data):
(Z)
          
 
11
The pro forma weighted-average shares outstanding are the historical weighted-average shares of HCP for the periods presented, adjusted for the assumed issuance of 27.2 million shares of HCP common stock on a weighted-average basis for the year ended December 31, 2005, and the nine months ended September 30, 2006.
(AA)
   
Represents the elimination of acquisition, debt acquisition, management and other fees earned by the Advisor from CRP. Because acquisition fees and debt acquisition fees paid by CRP to the Advisor are capitalized by CRP, only management fees and other fees are eliminated within costs and expenses.
(BB)
    
Represents the elimination of nonrecurring charges directly attributable to the Merger and Advisor Merger.
(CC)
    
12

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
1
 
2
 
3
 
4
CNL RETIREMENT PROPERTIES, INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Unaudited)
1.
                                      
Organizational and Basis of Presentation
:
Organization
 CNL Retirement Properties, Inc., a Maryland corporation, was organized in December 1997 to operate as a real estate investment trust (a "REIT") for federal income tax purposes.  Throughout this document, CNL Retirement Properties, Inc. and each of its subsidiaries and several consolidated partnerships and joint ventures are referred to as "we," "us" and "our."
acquire primarily real estate properties related to seniors' housing and health care facilities (the "Properties") located across the United States.  The Properties may include independent living, assisted living and skilled nursing facilities, continuing care retirement communities ("CCRC") and life care communities (collectively "Seniors' Housing"), medical office buildings, specialty and walk-in clinics, free standing ambulatory surgery centers, specialty or general hospitals and other types of health care-related facilities (collectively "").  Seniors' Housing facilities are generally leased on a long-term, triple-net basis and are generally leased on a shorter-term, gross or triple-net basis.  may provide mortgage financing loans ("Mortgage Loans"), furniture, fixture and equipment financing ("Secured Equipment Leases") and other loans to operators or developers of Seniors' Housing and Medical Facilities.  In addition, we may invest up to a maximum of 5% of total assets in equity interests in businesses, including those that provide services to or are otherwise ancillary to the retirement and health care industries.  We operate in one business segment, which is the ownership, development, management and leasing of health care-related real estate.  At September 30, 2006, we owned 184 Seniors' Housing facilities, 90 , including 2 specialty hospitals and 2 walk-in clinics, and a parcel of land.  We also owned two Seniors' Housing facilities and a parcel of land classified as held for sale.
We
Medical Facilities
Medical Facilities
We
Medical Facilities
We retained CNL Retirement Corp. (the "Advisor") as our advisor to provide management, acquisition, advisory and administrative services relating to our Properties, Mortgage Loans, Secured Equipment Lease program, other loans and other permitted investments pursuant to an advisory agreement dated May 14, 2004 (the "Advisory Agreement") that was renewed pursuant to a renewal agreement effective May 3, 2005 for a one-year term (the "2005 Renewal Agreement") and was amended by an amendment to the 2005 Renewal Agreement on July 13, 2005 (the "2005 Renewal Amendment" together with the 2005 Renewal Agreement, the "2005 Renewal Agreements").  On May 1, 2006, we entered into a renewal agreement (the "2006 Renewal Agreement") with the Advisor, pursuant to which the Advisory Agreement was renewed, as amended by the 2005 Renewal Agreements, for an additional one-year term commencing on May 3, 2006 and ending on May 3, 2007.  The Advisory Agreement may be terminated at an earlier date upon 60 days prior written notice by either party or by mutual consent of the parties. (See Note 2.)
 In 2005, we entered into an agreement with The Cirrus Group, LLC ("Cirrus"), a development and property management company, to acquire, at our election, Medical Facilities, some of which have yet to be developed.  The acquisitions contemplated under this agreement are expected to occur over a five-year term, subject to certain conditions, or until $1.0 billion is invested in Medical Facilities, including specialty hospitals.  We will have minority interest partners in connection with the ownership of each of these Properties, including Cirrus principals, physicians and other investors associated with Cirrus principals.  As of September 30, 2006, we had acquired a majority equity interest in five Medical Facilities for $87.3 million under this agreement, for which Cirrus and its affiliates made $1.5 million in minority interest contributions.  At September 30, 2006, Cirrus managed 26 of our Medical Facilities.
Strategic Alliances
In 2005, we entered into an agreement to provide a Cirrus affiliate with an interest only, five-year senior secured term loan under which up to $85.0 million (plus capitalized interest) may be borrowed to finance the acquisition, development, syndication and operation of new and existing surgical partnerships ("Senior Secured Term Loan").    At September 30, 2006, the balance outstanding under the Senior Secured Term Loan was $40.5 million.  In connection with the Senior Secured Term Loan, we received stock warrants which are exercisable into a 10% to 15% ownership interest of the borrower.  The stock warrants are exercisable at the earlier of an event of default or the full repayment of the Senior Secured
Term Loan and expire in September 2015.
5
We own a 55% controlling interest in The DASCO Companies, LLC ("DASCO"), a development and property management company.  Our relationship with DASCO has provided and may continue to provide opportunities for us to participate in new Medical Facility development and acquisition opportunities as well as Medical Facilities management.  DASCO may also provide development and property management services to third parties.  At September 30, 2006, DASCO managed fifty-five of our Medical Facilities, including two walk-in clinics and was developing four of our Medical Facilities.
 The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements (the "consolidated financial statements") have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q.  Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and note disclosures required by GAAP for complete financial statements.  The accompanying consolidated financial statements reflect all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments, which are, in the opinion of management, necessary for a fair statement of the results for the interim periods presented.  Operating results for the nine months ended September 30, 2006, may not be indicative of the results that may be expected for the year ending December 31, 2006.  Amounts included in the financial statements as of December 31, 2005, have been derived from the audited financial statements.
Basis of Presentation
These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K of CNL Retirement Properties, Inc. and its subsidiaries for the year ended December 31, 2005.  The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of our wholly owned subsidiaries, DASCO and other entities in which we own a majority and controlling interest.  Interests of unaffiliated third parties in less than 100% owned and majority controlled entities are reflected as minority interests.  All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
 Certain items in the prior periods' financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the 2006 presentation, including those related to our real estate held for sale (see Note 6).  These reclassifications had no effect on reported equity or net income.
Reclassifications
2.
                                      
HCP Merger:
On May 1, 2006, we entered into a definitive Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Merger Agreement") with Health Care Property Investors, Inc., a Maryland corporation ("HCP") and Ocean Acquisition 1, Inc., a Maryland corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of HCP ("Merger Sub"), pursuant to which we agreed to merge (the "Merger") with and into Merger Sub, with Merger Sub continuing as the surviving corporation.  We completed the merger on October 5, 2006.  In accordance with the terms of the Merger Agreement, each share of our common stock, par value $0.01, (other than shares held by HCP, Merger Sub, us or any of their or our respective wholly owned subsidiaries, and any dissenting stockholders), was converted into the right to receive consideration equivalent to $11.13 in cash and 0.0865 of a share of HCP common stock, par value $1.00 per share.
As of the closing date, we had approximately 264.2 million shares of common stock outstanding.
Simultaneously with the execution of the Merger Agreement, HCP entered into a merger agreement (the "Advisor Merger Agreement") with the Advisor and the stockholders of the Advisor, pursuant to which HCP agreed to acquire the Advisor for shares of HCP common stock valued at approximately $120.0 million (the "Advisor Merger").  The Advisor Merger was completed on October 5, 2006.
3.
                                      
Public Offerings
:
We completed our fifth public offering (the "2004 Offering") on March 26, 2006.  During 2006, we raised $103.2 million in subscription proceeds from the 2004 Offering.  Total subscription proceeds received from the 2004 Offering and the four prior public offerings amount to $2.7 billion.
The price per share of all of the equity offerings of our common stock was $10.00 per share, with the exception of (i) shares purchased pursuant to volume or other discounts and (ii) shares purchased through our reinvestment plan since the beginning of the 2004 Offering, which have been priced at $9.50 per share.
6
 As a result of the pending Merger, our Board of Directors determined that it was in our best interest to suspend our redemption plan, beginning with the second quarter of 2006.  The suspension of our redemption plan was effective as of June 15, 2006, and therefore beginning with the second quarter of 2006, no shares of our common stock were redeemed.
Redemption Plan
 Also as a result of the pending Merger, our Board of Directors determined that it was in our best interest to terminate our distribution reinvestment plan, beginning with the second quarter of 2006.  The termination of our distribution reinvestment plan was effective as of June 15, 2006, and therefore beginning with the second quarter of 2006, no distributions to our stockholders were reinvested in shares of our common stock pursuant to our distribution reinvestment plan.
Reinvestment Plan
4.
                                      
Acquisitions
:
In January 2006, we acquired majority equity interests in seven for $84.5 million which we funded, in part, with proceeds from a new $56.3 million, ten-year mortgage loan.  Four of the acquired Properties are located in Texas, two are in Arizona and one is in Missouri, and in aggregate they contain 323,000 square feet.  Cirrus manages the Properties.
Medical Facilities
In February 2006, we acquired a Seniors' Housing Property that is being developed.  The project is expected to be completed in the fourth quarter of 2006 with an estimated cost of $5.7 million.  The 46-unit assisted living facility is located in Michigan.
In March 2006, we acquired majority equity interests in five for $72.6 million which we funded, in part, with proceeds from a new $47.2 million, ten-year mortgage loan.  Four of the are located in Texas, and one is in Oklahoma, and in aggregate they contain 268,000 square feet.  Cirrus manages the Properties.
Medical Facilities
Medical Facilities
In March 2006, we acquired a majority equity interest in a Medical Facility for $24.5 million.  The Medical Facility is located in California and contains 55,000 square feet.  Cirrus manages the Property.
In May 2006, we acquired majority equity interests in two for $27.8 million.  The acquired Properties are located in Texas and Utah and, in aggregate they contain 134,000 square feet.  Cirrus manages the Properties.
Medical Facilities
In June 2006, we acquired a majority equity interest in a for $3.6 million.  The acquired Property contains 31,000 square feet and is managed by Cirrus.
Medical Facility in Ohio
In September 2006, we acquired an interest in a parcel of land in Texas for $3.3 million.  Cirrus will develop the Property.
7
5.
                                      
Other Assets
:
Other assets included the following (in thousands):
 
6.
                                      
Real Estate Held For Sale:
In July 2006, we sold a Property which was classified as held for sale.  We received net proceeds of $1.5 million and recorded a net loss of $0.2 million on the sale.
chase price less estimated closing costs.  Previously reported results were restated to reflect the reclassification on a comparable basis.
In June 2006, we entered into an agreement with the lessee of one of our Properties accounted for under the direct financing method allowing them to exercise a purchase option.  In accordance with the agreement, the lessee has deposited the option purchase price with an escrow agent, and we expect the transaction to close in October 2006.  Accordingly, we have reclassified the Property as held for sale and recognized an impairment charge of $2.4 million to reduce the Property's carrying value to the option pur
In March 2006, we sold two Properties which were classified as held for sale to an unrelated third party for $6.0 million and recorded a net loss of $0.5 million.  We issued a Mortgage Loan receivable with a three-year term secured by the Properties in the amount of $4.8 million.  This amount is included in other assets on our consolidated balance sheet as of September 30, 2006.  Interest is payable annually at a rate of 6.0% and principal is due at maturity.
As of September 30, 2006, real estate held for sale included two Seniors' Housing facilities and a parcel of land with an aggregate net carrying value of $22.7 million.
The operational results associated with Properties classified as held for sale were presented as Income (loss) from discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated statements of income.  Summarized financial information was as follows (in thousands):
 
7.
                                      
Indebtedness
:
 At September 30, 2006, we had $1.3 billion in mortgage debt collateralized by Properties with an aggregate carrying amount of $2.4 billion.  Interest rates on the mortgage notes ranged from 4.85% to 8.42% with a weighted-average rate of 6.13% at September 30, 2006.
Mortgages payable
8
In January 2006, we entered into a $56.3 million, ten-year mortgage loan that bears fixed-rate interest at 5.59%.  Payments for the first five years are interest only, with principal payments beginning in March 2011.
In February 2006, we entered into a $33.0 million mortgage loan and used the proceeds and cash on hand to pre-pay a $48.0 million construction loan facility with a principal balance of $41.9 million.  The new interest-only, five-year loan bears interest at a rate equal to LIBOR plus 150 basis points (6.83% all-in rate at September 30, 2006).
In March 2006, we entered into a $47.2 million, ten-year mortgage loan that bears fixed-rate interest at 5.81%.  Payments for the first five years are interest only, with principal payments beginning in May 2011.
In August 2006 we repaid two mortgage loans with an aggregate principal balance of $22.0 million.
 Total construction loans outstanding at September 30, 2006 were $41.4 million, and total liquidity remaining was $17.6 million.  During the nine months ended September 30, 2006, we prepaid construction loan facilities with an aggregate balance of $128.1 million, entered into a new construction loan facility of $7.7 million and collectively drew a net of $26.0 million under all of our construction loans related to certain Properties in various stages of development.  The loans are variable interest rate loans and mature from July 2009 through December 2013.  We anticipate that we will obtain permanent financing to repay the construction loans as they become due.
Construction loans payable
 At September 30, 2006, $216.0 million was outstanding under our $320.0 million two-year senior secured revolving line of credit (the "Revolving LOC").  The Revolving LOC requires interest-only payments with an all-in rate of 9.10% at September 30, 2006, which represents a pricing of prime plus 85 basis points.  The amount available for use under the Revolving LOC is subject to certain limitations based on the pledged collateral.  As of September 30, 2006, the Revolving LOC was collateralized by 36 Properties with a carrying value of $388.8 million that, in the aggregate, allowed us to draw up to $283.0 million.
Line of Credit
The Merger Agreement with HCP provided, among other things, that we could not incur further indebtedness other than an additional $25.0 million in draw downs under our Revolving LOC or issue equity or convertible securities without the prior written consent of HCP.  In addition, the Merger Agreement limited our ability to invest in and encumber assets, make loans and dispose of assets without the prior written consent of HCP.
8.
                                      
Financial Instruments  Derivatives and Hedging:
In May 2005, we entered into two interest rate swap agreements effective June 1, 2005, and one interest rate swap agreement effective July 1, 2005, for an aggregate notional amount of $233.8 million to hedge against unfavorable fluctuations in interest rates on our variable interest rate mortgage notes payable.  On September 29, 2006, we terminated these swaps and received cash proceeds of $5.2 million, representing the fair value of the swaps on the termination date.  In the third quarter of 2006, $3.0 million of the gain on these swaps was recognized as a reclassification from accumulated other comprehensive income to interest expense because the original forcasted transactions were no longer probable.  The remaining $2.2 million of the gain will be amortized as an offset to interest expense over the life of the related debt.
9.
                                      
Related Party Transactions:
Pursuant to the Advisory Agreement, as amended and renewed, the Advisor and its affiliates earn certain fees and are entitled to receive reimbursement of certain expenses.
 During the nine months ended September 30, 2006 and 2005, we incurred acquisition fees of $7.2 million and $16.0 million, respectively, for, among other things, identifying Properties and structuring the terms of the leases (equal to 3.0% of gross offering proceeds and loan proceeds from permanent financing from May 3, 2005 until the present and equal to 4.0% of gross offering proceeds and loan proceeds from May 14, 2004 through May 2, 2005).  These fees are included in other assets in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets prior to being allocated to individual Properties or intangible lease costs.
Acquisition fees
9
 During the quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2006, we incurred monthly asset management fees totaling $5.3 million and $15.7 million, respectively.  Monthly asset management fees incurred during the quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2005 totaled $4.9 million and $14.2 million, respectively (0.05% of the amount actually paid or allocated to the purchase, development, construction or improvement of a property, exclusive of acquisition fees and acquisition expenses, and the outstanding principal balance of any Mortgage Loans as of the end of the preceding month).
Management fees
 Our Advisor and its affiliates provide various administrative services, including, but not limited to, accounting; financial, tax, insurance administration and regulatory compliance reporting; stockholder distributions and reporting; due diligence and marketing; and investor relations.  During the quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2006, we incurred $1.4 million and $3.1 million for these services, respectively.  During the quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2005, we incurred $1.6 million and $4.3 million for these services, respectively.
Administrative services
$8.4 million and$15.4 million nine months ended September 30 These amounts are treated as stock issuance costs and charged to stockholders' equity.
Offering expenses
Offering expenses incurred by the Advisor and its affiliates on our behalf, together with selling commissions, the marketing support fee and due diligence expense reimbursements were
during the
, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
10.
                                
Comprehensive Income
:
The components of our comprehensive income for the quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2006 and 2005 were as follows (in thousands):
 
 
 
10

Exhibit 99.3
CNL RETIREMENT CORP.
 
 
1
 
2
CNL RETIREMENT CORP.
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
3
CNL RETIREMENT CORP.
 
4
1.
Organization and Nature of Business
                                     
CNL Retirement Corp. (the "Company") and its wholly owned subsidiary, CNL Retirement Development Company, provide management, advisory and administrative services and assist in identifying and acquiring seniors' housing and health care-related  properties and obtaining financing for CNL Retirement Properties, Inc. and it's subsidiaries ("CRP").
2.
Interim Period Financial Statements
                                     
The interim statements have been prepared without audit. Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America have been condensed or omitted. The Company's management believes the disclosures made are adequate to make the interim financial information presented not misleading.
In the opinion of management, the accompanying interim statements reflect all adjustments (which include only normal recurring adjustments) necessary to present fairly the financial position of the Company as of September 30, 2006 and the results of operations and cash flows for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 and 2005. Interim results are not necessarily indicative of fiscal year performance because of seasonal and short-term variations.
Amounts included in the financial statements as of December 31, 2005, have been derived from the audited financial statements of the Company for the year then ended.
These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements of CNL Retirement Corp. for the year ended December 31, 2005. The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of CNL Retirement Corp. and its wholly owned subsidiary. All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
3.
Related Party Transactions
                                     
One of the principal stockholders of the Company's parent is a stockholder, director and officer of CRP and is also an officer and director of the Company. Additionally, the President of the Company's parent is an officer and director of the Company as well as an officer and director of CRP.
The Company's fee revenue is primarily earned for services provided to CRP. In addition, the Company provides accounting and administrative services to CRP and other related companies for which it receives personnel reimbursements. For the nine months ended September 30, 2006 and 2005 such reimbursements amounted to $2,199,005 and $2,070,163, respectively and are included in interest and other income.
5
 
Amounts due from related parties at September 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005 consist of the following:
 
 
Amounts due to related parties at September 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005 consist of the following:
 
Amounts due are unsecured, non-interest bearing and due on demand.
The Company maintains bank accounts in a bank in which certain officers and directors serve as directors and are stockholders. The amounts deposited with this bank were $5,084,839 and $1,492,063 as of September 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005, respectively.
4. Merger Agreement
On May 1, 2006, CRP entered into a definitive merger agreement with Health Care Property Investors, Inc. ("HCP"). In connection with the merger with CRP, HCP also entered into a definitive merger agreement with respect to the Company, pursuant to which all outstanding shares of the Company's capital stock would be converted into the right to receive in the aggegate 4,378,923 shares of HCP common stock. The merger with CRP and the merger with the Company were conditioned upon the consummation of each other. In September of 2006 the Company entered into agreements with certain executives that would require payments of approximately $6,000,000 in the event the mergers were consummated.
In October of 2006 the mergers were consummated and the payments to the executives were made.
6


