FILE:HCP/HCP-8K-20080131143341.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02
      
Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
(e)           Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Executive Officers.
 
Approval of 2007 Incentive Bonuses. 
On January 25, 2008, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (the "Compensation Committee") of HCP, Inc. (the "Company") approved annual incentive bonuses for the year ended December 31, 2007 for the Company's named executive officers, based upon multiple performance criteria, including subjective evaluations of personal job performance and performance measured against objective business criteria.  The 2007 annual cash incentive bonus amounts for the Company's named executive officers during fiscal 2007 are as follows: James F. Flaherty III, President and Chief Executive Officer, $2.0 million plus an award of performance-based Restricted Stock Units as described below; Charles A. Elcan, Executive Vice President - Medical Office Properties, $185,000; Paul F. Gallagher, Executive Vice President  Chief Investment Officer, $520,000; and Mark A. Wallace, Executive Vice President  Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, $470,000.
 
On January 25, 2008, the Compensation Committee also approved the grant of 45,160 performance-based Restricted Stock Units to Mr. Flaherty as part of his bonus for 2007 performance.  The Restricted Stock Units are subject, in whole or in part, to forfeiture in the event that the Company does not reach specified targets for funds from operations per share for fiscal 2008.  Those Restricted Stock Units that are not forfeited vest in full on the third anniversary of the date of grant, subject to continued employment by Mr. Flaherty through that date and subject to accelerated vesting in connection with certain terminations of employment in accordance with Mr. Flaherty's employment agreement with the Company.
 
Approval of HCP, Inc. Executive Bonus Program. 
On January 25, 2008, the Compensation Committee approved the HCP, Inc. Executive Bonus Program (the "Bonus Program") to grant cash bonus opportunities to certain executive officers that are intended to qualify as "qualified performance-based compensation" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.  The Bonus Program will be administered by the Compensation Committee.  Awards under the Bonus Program are in the form of maximum cash bonus grants to Participants; the actual amount of the bonus paid out to each Participant will be paid only if the Company achieves a specified target level of funds from operations per share during a fiscal year.  The actual bonus payouts may be lower than the maximum cash bonus amounts in the event that the Company's actual funds from operations per share are less than targeted levels, provided that a minimum level of funds from operations per share must be achieved by the Company during any calendar year in order for any bonus to be paid pursuant to the Bonus Program.
 
The Compensation Committee retains discretion to reduce the actual amount of cash bonus payable to any participant but may not increase that amount under the Bonus Program or re-allocate any reduced bonus amount among participants.
 
This summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the Bonus Program, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 hereto and specifically incorporated by reference herein.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
PURPOSE
1.
             
 
The purpose of this HCP, Inc. Executive Bonus Program (this "") is to promote the success of HCP, Inc., a Maryland corporation (the ""), by motivating the executives selected to participate in this Program (each, a "") to maximize the performance of the Corporation and rewarding them with cash bonuses directly related to such performance.  This Program is intended to provide bonuses that qualify as performance-based compensation within the meaning of Section 162(m) ("") of the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "").  This Program is adopted under Section 5.2 of the Corporation's 2006 Performance Incentive Plan (the "").  Capitalized terms are defined in the Plan if not defined herein.
Program
Corporation
Participant
Section 162(m)
Code
Plan
 
2.     ADMINISTRATION
 
This Program shall be administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board (the ""), which shall consist solely of two or more members of the Board who are "outside directors" within the meaning of Section 162(m).  Action of the Committee with respect to the administration of this Program shall be taken pursuant to a majority vote or by the unanimous written consent of its members.  The Committee shall have the authority to construe and interpret this Program and any agreements or other document relating to Awards under the Program, may adopt rules and regulations relating to the administration of this Program, and shall exercise all other duties and powers conferred on it by this Program.  Any decision or action of the Committee within its authority hereunder shall be conclusive and binding upon all persons.  Neither the Board nor the Committee, nor any person acting at the direction thereof, shall be liable for any act, omission, interpretation, construction or determination made in good faith in connection with this Program (or any Award made under this Program).
Committee
 
The Program will operate on the basis of one or more calendar years (each, a "").  The initial Performance Period under the Program will be the 2008 calendar year.  The Committee will determine the extent to which the Program will continue in effect with respect to any subsequent calendar year.  Not later than two and one-half months into each Performance Period, the Committee will, in its sole discretion, select the Participants to whom "Awards" will be granted for that Performance Period, determine the "" for each Participant for that Performance Period (which maximum need not be the same from Participant to Participant or, as to any particular Participant, the same from Performance Period to Performance Period), and determine the "Target FFO Per Share" for that Performance Period.  Participation by an executive in one Performance Period does not give an executive any right to participation in any subsequent Performance Period.
Performance Period
Maximum Bonus Amount
 
AWARDS
3.
             
 
.  An Award is granted to each Participant participating in this Program for a particular Performance Period.  Each "" represents the opportunity to receive a cash payment determined under this Section 3 (a ""), subject to the terms and conditions of this Program, with respect to the related Performance Period.  The actual amount of the Bonus paid to each Participant for a particular Performance Period will be calculated based on the Participant's Maximum Bonus Amount for that Performance Period and the percentage achievement on the Corporation's target Funds From Operations Per Share amount for that Performance Period (the ""), according to the following chart.
3.1
                  
Award Grants; Maximum Bonus Amounts
Award
Bonus
Target FFO Per Share
 
In no case, however, shall the amount of any Participant's Bonus for a Performance Period exceed $5,000,000.
 
.  For purposes of this Program, "" means the Corporation's funds from operations per share during the Performance Period, as prescribed by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("") as in effect on the first day of the Performance Period, and shall be calculated on a fully diluted basis using the weighted average of diluted shares of the Corporation's common stock outstanding during the Performance Period.  Funds From Operations Per Share shall be calculated before taking into account any non-recurring charges incurred by the Corporation with respect to the Performance Period for (i) material strategic or financing transactions approved by the Board of Directors and (ii) impairments.  The determination as to whether the Corporation has attained the performance goals with respect to the Performance Period shall be made by the Committee acting in good faith.  The Committee's determination regarding whether the Corporation has attained the performance goals shall be made no later than the March 15 following the end of the Performance Period.
3.2
                  
Determination of Performance
Funds From Operations Per Share
NAREIT
 
.  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, the Committee retains discretion to reduce (but not increase) the Bonus otherwise payable to any one or more Participants pursuant to Sections 3.1 and 3.2.  The Committee may exercise such discretion on any basis it deems appropriate (including, but not limited to, its assessment of the Corporation's performance relative to its operating or strategic goals for the Performance Period and/or the Participant's individual performance for such period).  For purposes of clarity, if the Committee exercises its discretion to reduce the amount of any Bonus payable hereunder, it may not allocate the amount of such reduction to Bonuses payable to other Participants.
3.3
                  
Committee Discretion
 
.  Any Bonuses shall be paid (subject to tax withholding pursuant to Section 4.6) as soon as practicable following the certification of the Committee's findings under Section 3.2 and its determination of the final Bonus amount (after giving effect to any exercise of its discretion to reduce Bonuses pursuant to Section 3.3) for the particular Performance Period, but in no event later than March 15 following the end of the Performance Period.
3.4
                  
Payment of Bonuses
 
.  If a Participant's employment with the Corporation and its Subsidiaries terminates at any time during a Performance Period, the Participant's Award for that Performance Period will immediately terminate upon such termination of employment, and the Participant will not be entitled to any Bonus payment in respect of such Award; provided, however, if the Participant is a party to a written employment agreement with the Corporation or one of its Subsidiaries or is covered by a written severance plan maintained by the Corporation or one of its Subsidiaries and, in connection with the Participant's termination of employment, the Participant is entitled to severance benefits pursuant to that agreement or plan, as applicable, the Participant's right to a Bonus with respect to the Performance Period shall be determined pursuant to such other agreement or plan.
3.5
                  
Termination of Employment
 
.  The Committee shall adjust any provisions applicable to Awards granted under this Program to the extent (if any) it determines that the adjustment is necessary or advisable to preserve the intended incentives and benefits to reflect (1) any material change in corporate capitalization, any material corporate transaction (such as a reorganization, combination, separation, merger, acquisition, or any combination of the foregoing), or any complete or partial liquidation of the Corporation, (2) any change in accounting policies or practices, (3) the effects of any special charges to the Corporation's earnings, or (4) any other similar special circumstances.
3.6
                  
Adjustments
 
.  If a Change in Control Event with respect to the Corporation occurs at any time during a Performance Period, that Performance Period for all outstanding Awards will be shortened so that the Performance Period will be deemed to have ended on the last day prior to such Change in Control Event.  The Bonus Pool and the Bonuses payable with respect to each Award for that Performance Period will be determined in accordance with the foregoing provisions of this Section 3 based on such shortened Performance Period and based on a pro-rated Target FFO Per Share (with such pro-ration based on the portion of that Performance Period that elapsed prior to such Change in Control Event).  Such Bonuses shall be paid (subject to tax withholding pursuant to Section 4.6) as soon as practicable following, and in all events not later than seventy four (74) days after, the date of the Change in Control Event.  For purposes of this Section 3.7, "" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in the Plan.
3.7
                  
Change in Control
Change in Control Event
 
4.     GENERAL PROVISIONS
 
.
4.1
                  
Rights of Participants
 
.  Nothing in this Program (or in any other documents evidencing any Award under this Program) will be deemed to confer on any Participant any right to continue in the employ of the Corporation or any Subsidiary or interfere in any way with the right of the Corporation or any Subsidiary to terminate his or her employment at any time.
(a)
         
No Right to Continued Employment
 
.  No Participant or other person will have any right or claim to any specific funds, property or assets of the Corporation by reason of any Award hereunder.  To the extent that a Participant or other person acquires a right to receive payment pursuant to any Award hereunder, such right shall be no greater than the right of any unsecured general creditor of the Corporation.
(b)
        
Program Not Funded
 
.  Except as expressly provided by the Committee in accordance with the provisions of Section 162(m), all Awards are non-transferable, and no benefit payable under this Program shall be subject in any manner to sale, transfer, anticipation, alienation, assignment, pledge, encumbrance or charge.  This Section 4.2 shall not apply to an assignment of a contingency or payment due (a) after the death of a Participant to the deceased Participant's legal representative or beneficiary or (b) after the disability of a Participant to the disabled Participant's personal representative.
4.2
                  
Non-Transferability of Benefits and Interests
 
.  The various provisions herein are severable in their entirety.  Any determination of invalidity or unenforceability of any one provision will have no effect on the continuing force and effect of the remaining provisions.
4.3
                  
Force and Effect
 
.  This Program and any cash awards granted hereunder shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of Maryland.
4.4
                  
Governing Law
 
.
4.5
                  
Construction
 
.  It is the intent of the Corporation that this Program and the Awards and Bonuses paid hereunder will qualify as performance-based compensation or will otherwise be exempt from deductibility limitations under Section 162(m).  Any provision, application or interpretation of this Program inconsistent with this intent to satisfy the standards in Section 162(m) shall be disregarded.
(a)
         
Section 162(m)
 
.  It is intended that Awards under this Program qualify as "short-term deferrals" within the meaning of the guidance provided by the Internal Revenue Service under Section 409A of the Code and this Program shall be interpreted consistent with that intent.
(b)
        
Section 409A
 
.  Upon the payment of any Bonus, the Corporation shall have the right to deduct the amount of any federal, state or local taxes that the Corporation or any Subsidiary may be required to withhold with respect to such payment.
4.6
                  
Tax Withholding
 
  The Board or the Committee may at any time terminate, amend, modify or suspend this Program, in whole or in part.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, no amendment may be effective without Board and/or shareholder approval if such approval is necessary to comply with the applicable rules of Section 162(m) and no amendment shall be effective that would violate Section 162(m).
4.7
                  
Amendment or Termination of Program
.


