FILE:HCP/HCP-8K-20100212083211.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On February 12, 2010, HCP, Inc. ("HCP") issued a press release setting forth its financial results for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2009.  The press release referred to a supplemental information package that is available on HCP's website, free of charge, at .  The text of the press release and the supplemental information package are furnished herewith as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively, and are specifically incorporated by reference herein.
www.hcpi.com
 
The information in this Form 8-K and the related information in the exhibits attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section and shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing of HCP under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in any such filing.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
HCP ANNOUNCES RESULTS FOR THE FOURTH QUARTER AND YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2009
 
FOURTH QUARTER HIGHLIGHTS
 
--
               
Diluted FFO per share was $0.55, before giving effect to impairments of $0.19 per diluted share; diluted FFO per share was $0.36; and diluted earnings per share was $0.09
 
--
               
Year-over-year quarterly adjusted NOI same property performance increased by 2.3%
 
FULL YEAR HIGHLIGHTS
 
--
            &# 160;  
Diluted FFO per share was $2.14, before giving effect to impairments and a litigation provision of $0.64 per diluted share; diluted FFO per share was $1.50; and diluted earnings per share was $0.40
 
--
               
Year-over-year twelve month adjusted NOI same property performance increased by 3.2%
 
--
               
Strengthened balance sheet and liquidity
 
--
               
Reduced financial leverage from 48% to 43%
--
               
Raised $881 million of equity capital through the issuance of common stock
--
               
Ended the year with $1.4 billion available on our line of credit and $289 million of unrestricted cash and marketable securities
 
--
               
Purchased a $720 million participation in HCR ManorCare's first mortgage debt
 
--
               
Sold HCA bonds for $157 million and recognized gains of $9 million
 
--
               
Sold real estate assets for $72 million and recognized gain on sales of real estate of $37 million
 
--
         & #160;     
Terminated and transitioned 15 Sunrise-managed communities to new operators
 
LONG BEACH, CA, February 12, 2010  HCP (the "Company" or "we") (NYSE:HCP) announced results for the fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2009 as follows (in thousands, except per share amounts):
 
 
 
(1)
 
For further information regarding the quarter ended December 31, 2009 impairment charges see "Other Events" section herein.
In addition to impairment charges and litigation provision, FFO applicable to common shares for the quarter ended December 31, 2009 included the positive impact of $0.02 per diluted share of the following: i) termination fees of $0.01 per share and ii) income of $0.01 per share related to sales of marketable debt securities. In addition to impairment and merger-related charges, FFO applicable to common shares for the quarter ended December 31, 2008 included the negative impact of $0.01 per diluted share of the following: i) recognized losses on marketable securities and charges related to hedge ineffectiveness of $0.02 per share; and ii) a gain of $0.01 per share related to the early repayment of $120 million of mortgage debt at a discount.
 
Full Year Comparison
 
 
FFO is a supplemental non-GAAP financial measure that the Company believes is helpful in evaluating the operating performance of real estate investment trusts.
 
INVESTMENTS
 
During the quarter ended December 31, 2009, we funded $33 million for construction and other capital projects, primarily in our life science segment. During the quarter ended December 31, 2009, we sold marketable debt securities for $38 million, recognizing aggregate gains of $2.5 million, and three senior housing facilities for $14 million, recognizing gain on sales of real estate of $3 million.
 
During the year ended December 31, 2009, we made aggregate investments of $724 million as follows: i) purchased a $720 million participation in the first mortgage debt of HCR ManorCare at a discount of $130 million, which resulted in an acquisition cost of $590 million; ii) purchased the remaining interests in three senior housing joint ventures with an aggregate unencumbered value of $15 million; and iii) funded $119 million for construction and other capital projects, primarily in our life science segment. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we sold investments for $229 million from the following segments: i) $203 million of hospital ($157 million of HCA bonds and $46 million in real estate assets); ii) $15 million of senior housing; and iii) $11 million of medical office.
 
OTHER EVENTS
 
During the quarter ended December 31, 2009, we recognized aggregate impairments of $54 million, which primarily included the following: i) $48 million of impairment charges related to three direct financing leases and a $10 million participation in a senior construction loan associated with properties operated by Erickson Retirement Communities; and ii) a $4 million impairment charge related to a senior secured term loan to an affiliate of the Cirrus Group, LLC.
 
DIVIDEND
 
On February 1, 2010, we announced that our Board of Directors declared an increase to our quarterly cash dividend from $0.46 to $0.465 per common share, which represents an annual increase of $0.02 per share. The dividend will be paid on February 23, 2010 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on February 11, 2010.
OUTLOOK
 
For the full year 2010, we expect FFO applicable to common shares to range between $2.11 and $2.17 per diluted share and net income applicable to common shares to range between $0.98 and $1.04 per diluted share.
 
COMPANY INFORMATION
 
HCP has scheduled a conference call and webcast for Friday, February 12, 2010 at 9:00 a.m. Pacific Time (12:00 p.m. Eastern Time) in order to present the Company's performance and operating results for the quarter ended December 31, 2009. The conference call is accessible by dialing (800) 299-7635 (U.S.) or (617) 786-2901 (International). The participant passcode is 40355843. The webcast is accessible via the Company's website at . This link can be found on the "Event Calendar" page, which is under the "Investor Relations" tab. A webcast replay of the conference call will be available after 12:00 p.m. Pacific Time (3:00 p.m. Eastern Time) on February 12, 2010 through February 26, 2010 on the Company's website and a telephonic replay can be accessed by calling (888) 286-8010 (U.S.) or (617) 801-6888 (International) and entering passcode 35515186. The Company's supplemental information package for the current period will also be available on the Company's website in the "Presentations" section of the "Investor Relations" tab.
www.hcpi.com
 
ABOUT HCP
 
HCP, Inc., an S&P 500 company, is a real estate investment trust (REIT) that, together with its consolidated subsidiaries, invests primarily in real estate serving the healthcare industry in the United States. As of December 31, 2009 the Company's portfolio of investments, including properties owned by our Investment Management Platform, consisted of interests in 675 facilities among the following segments: 256 senior housing, 98 life science, 251 medical office, 22 hospital and 48 skilled nursing, and $1.8 billion of mezzanine and other secured loan investments. For more information, visit the Company's website at .
www.hcpi.com
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: The statements contained in this release which are not historical facts are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements include among other things, net income applicable to common shares on a diluted basis, FFO applicable to common shares on a diluted basis, and gain on sales of real estate, real estate depreciation and amortization, and joint venture adjustments for the full year of 2010. These statements are made as of the date hereof and are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other factorsmany of which are out of the Company's control and difficult to forecastthat could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in or implied by forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to: national and local economic conditions, including the possibility of a prolonged recession; continued volatility in the capital markets, including changes in interest rates and the availability and cost of capital, which changes and volatility affect opportunities for profitable investment; the Company's ability to access external sources of capital when desired and on reasonable terms; the Company's ability to manage its indebtedness levels; changes in the terms of the Company's indebtedness; the Company's ability to maintain its credit ratings; the potential impact of existing and future litigation matters, including the possibility of larger than expected litigation costs and related developments; the Company's ability to sell its investments when desired and on profitable terms; competition for lessees and mortgagors (including new leases and mortgages and the renewal or rollover of existing leases); the Company's ability to reposition its properties on the same or better terms if existing leases are not renewed or the Company exercises its right to replace an existing operator or tenant upon default; the Company's ability to pursue legal remedies in the Erickson matter as well as any further restructuring of the loan with Cirrus; continuing reimbursement uncertainty in the skilled nursing segment; competition in the senior housing segment specifically and in the healthcare industry in general; the ability of the Company's operators and tenants to maintain or increase occupancy levels at, and rental income from, the senior housing segment; the Company's ability to realize the benefits of its mezzanine and other loan investments; the ability of the Company's lessees and mortgagors to maintain the financial strength and liquidity necessary to satisfy their respective obligations to the Company and other third parties; the bankruptcy, insolvency or financial deterioration of the Company's operators, lessees, borrowers or other obligors; changes in healthcare laws and regulations, including the impact of future or pending healthcare reform, and other changes in the healthcare industry which affect the operations of the Company's lessees or obligors; the Company's ability to recruit and retain key management personnel; costs of compliance with regulations and environmental laws affecting the Company's properties; changes in tax laws and regulations; the Company's ability and willingness to maintain its qualification as a REIT; changes in rules governing financial reporting, including new accounting pronouncements; and other risks described from time to time in the Company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings. The Company assumes no, and hereby disclaims any, obligation to update any of the foregoing or any other forward-looking statements as a result of new information or new or future developments, except as otherwise required by law.
 
CONTACT
 
HCP
Thomas M. Herzog
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
(562) 733-5309
 
 
 
 
(1)
    
Presentation and certain computational changes have been made for the adoption of Accounting Standard Codification 260-10, (formerly FSP EITF 03-6-1, ) to compute earnings per share and funds from operations per share under the two-class method.
Earnings Per Share - Overall
Determining Whether Instruments Granted in Share Based Payment Transactions Are Participating Securities
,
 
(2)
    
The Company believes funds from operations applicable to common shares, diluted funds from operations applicable to common shares and basic and diluted funds from operations per common share are important supplemental measures of operating performance for a real estate investment trust. Because the historical cost accounting convention used for real estate assets requires straight-line depreciation (except on land), such accounting presentation implies that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time. Since real estate values instead have historically risen and fallen with market conditions, presentations of operating results for a real estate investment trust that uses historical cost accounting for depreciation could be less informative. The term funds from operations ("FFO") was designed by the real estate investment trust industry to address this issue.
 
FFO is defined as net income applicable to common shares (computed in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles), excluding gains or losses from real estate dispositions, plus real estate depreciation and amortization, with adjustments for joint ventures. Adjustments for joint ventures are calculated to reflect FFO on the same basis. FFO does not represent cash generated from operating activities in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, is not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund cash needs and should not be considered an alternative to net income. The Company's computation of FFO may not be comparable to FFO reported by other real estate investment trusts that do not define the term in accordance with the current National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts' ("NAREIT") definition or that have a different interpretation of the current NAREIT definition from the Company.
 
(3)
    
In the three months and year ended December 31, 2008, included in other income, net, were impairments of $0.4 million related to two of the Company's investments in unconsolidated joint ventures.
 
(4)
    
Merger-related charges in the periods ended December 31, 2008 included the amortization of fees associated with our acquisition financing for Slough Estates USA Inc. ("SEUSA"), as well as other SEUSA integration costs.
 
(1)
    
The Company believes Net Operating Income from Continuing Operations ("NOI") provides investors relevant and useful information because it measures the operating performance of the Company's real estate at the property level on an unleveraged basis. NOI is used to evaluate the operating performance of real estate properties and SPP. The Company uses NOI and NOI, as adjusted, to make decisions about resource allocations, to assess and compare property level performance, and evaluate SPP. The Company believes that net income is the most directly comparable
U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") measure to NOI. NOI should not be viewed as an alternative measure of operating performance to net income as defined by GAAP since it does not reflect the aforementioned excluded items. Further, NOI may not be comparable to that of other real estate investment trusts, as they may use different methodologies for calculating NOI.
 
NOI is defined as rental revenues, including tenant reimbursements and income from direct financing leases, less property level operating expenses. NOI excludes investment management fee income, depreciation and amortization, general and administrative expenses, litigation provision, impairments, interest and other income, net, interest expense, income tax expense (benefit), equity income from unconsolidated joint ventures and discontinued operations. NOI, as adjusted, is calculated as NOI eliminating the effects of straight-line rents, DFL interest accretion, amortization of above and below market lease intangibles, and lease termination fees. NOI, as adjusted, is sometimes referred as "adjusted NOI" or "cash basis NOI."
 
(2)
    
The Company believes same property portfolio ("SPP") is an important component of the Company's evaluation of the operating performance of its properties. The Company defines its same property portfolio each quarter as those properties that have been in operation throughout the current year and the prior year and that were also in operation at January 1st of the prior year. Newly acquired assets, developments and redevelopments in process and assets classified in discontinued operations are excluded from the same property portfolio. Same property statistics allow management to evaluate the NOI of the Company's real estate portfolio as a consistent population from period to period and eliminates the effects of changes in the composition of the properties on performance measures. SPP NOI excludes certain non-property specific operating expenses that are allocated to each operating segment on a consolidated basis.
 
(1)
    
The Company believes that its Financial Leverage is a meaningful supplemental measure of its financial position, which enables both management and investors to analyze its leverage and to compare its leverage to that of other companies. The Company believes that the ratio of consolidated debt to consolidated gross assets is the most directly comparable GAAP measure to Financial Leverage. Financial Leverage represents Total Debt divided by Total Gross Assets. The Company's computation of its financial leverage may not be identical to the computations of financial leverage reported by other companies. The Company's share of total debt is not intended to reflect its actual liability or ability to access assets should there be a default under any or all of such loans or a liquidation of the joint ventures.
 
Defined Terms:
 
Consolidated Debt.
The carrying amount of bank line of credit, bridge and term loans, senior unsecured notes, mortgage debt and other debt as reported in the Company's consolidated financial statements.
 
Consolidated Gross Assets.
The carrying amount of total assets, excluding investments in and advances to unconsolidated joint ventures, after adding back accumulated depreciation and amortization, as reported in the Company's consolidated financial statements.
 
Investment Management Platform ("IMP").
Represents the following unconsolidated joint ventures: (i) HCP Life Science, (ii) HCP Ventures II, (iii) HCP Ventures III, LLC and (iv) HCP Ventures IV, LLC.
 
Total Debt
.
Consolidated Debt plus the Company's pro rata share of debt from the Investment Management Platform.
 
Total Gross Assets.
The Consolidated Gross Assets plus the Company's pro rata share of total assets from the Investment Management Platform, after adding back accumulated depreciation and amortization.
 
 
(1)
    
Except as otherwise noted above, the foregoing projections reflect management's view of current and future market conditions, including assumptions with respect to rental rates, occupancy levels, development activities, property dispositions and the earnings impact of the events referenced in this release. Except as otherwise noted, these estimates do not reflect the potential impact of future acquisitions, impairments, the future bankruptcy or insolvency of the Company's operators, lessees, borrowers or other obligors, the effect of any future restructuring of the Company's contractual relationships with such entities, realized gains or losses on marketable securities, ineffectiveness related to our cash flow hedges, offerings of debt or equity securities or existing and future litigation matters including the possibility of larger than expected litigation costs and related developments. By definition, FFO does not include real estate-related depreciation and amortization or gains and losses associated with real estate disposition activities, but does include impairments. There can be no assurance that the Company's actual results will not differ materially from the estimates set forth above. The aforementioned ranges represent management's best estimate of results based upon the underlying assumptions as of the date of this press release. Except as otherwise required by law, management assumes no, and hereby disclaims any, obligation to update any of the foregoing projections as a result of new information or new or future developments.

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: The statements contained in this supplemental information which are not historical facts are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements include among other things the Company's estimate of (i) yields, (ii) completion dates, stabilization dates, rentable square feet and total investment for development projects in progress, and (iii) rentable square feet for land held for future development. These statements are made as of the date hereof and are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other factorsmany of which are out of the Company's control and difficult to forecastthat could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in or implied by forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to: national and local economic conditions, including the possibility of a prolonged recession; continued volatility in the capital markets, including changes in interest rates and the availability and cost of capital, which changes and volatility affect opportunities for profitable investment; the Company's ability to access external sources of capital when desired and on reasonable terms; the Company's ability to manage its indebtedness levels; changes in the terms of the Company's indebtedness; the Company's ability to maintain its credit ratings; the potential impact of existing and future litigation matters, including the possibility of larger than expected litigation costs and related developments; the Company's ability to sell its investments when desired and on profitable terms; competition for lessees and mortgagors (including new leases and mortgages and the renewal or rollover of existing leases); the Company's ability to reposition its properties on the same or better terms if existing leases are not renewed or the Company exercises its right to replace an existing operator or tenant upon default; continuing reimbursement uncertainty in the skilled nursing segment; competition in the senior housing segment specifically and in the healthcare industry in general; the ability of the Company's operators and tenants to maintain or increase occupancy levels at, and rental income from, the senior housing segment; the Company's ability to realize the benefits of its mezzanine and other loan investments; the ability of the Company's lessees and mortgagors to maintain the financial strength and liquidity necessary to satisfy their respective obligations to the Company and other third parties; the bankruptcy, insolvency or financial deterioration of the Company's operators, lessees, borrowers or other obligors; changes in healthcare laws and regulations, including the impact of future or pending healthcare reform, and other changes in the healthcare industry which affect the operations of the Company's lessees or obligors; the Company's ability to recruit and retain key management personnel; costs of compliance with regulations and environmental laws affecting the Company's properties; changes in tax laws and regulations; the Company's ability and willingness to maintain its qualification as a REIT; changes in rules governing financial reporting, including new accounting pronouncements; and other risks described from time to time in the Company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings. The Company assumes no, and hereby disclaims any, obligation to update any of the foregoing or any other forward-looking statements as a result of new information or new or future developments, except as otherwise required by law.
 
 
 
 
The information in this supplemental information package should be read in conjunction with the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and other information filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The Reporting Definitions and Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Measures are an integral part of the information presented herein.
 
On the Company's internet website, www.hcpi.com, you can access, free of charge, its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. The information contained on its website is not incorporated by reference into, and should not be considered a part of, this supplemental information package. In addition, the SEC maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including HCP, that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov.
 
For more information, contact Thomas M. Herzog, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer at (562) 733-5309.
 
 
(1)    
As of February 12, 2010.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dollars in thousands
 
 
 
 
Dollars in thousands
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As of December 31, 2009, dollars and square feet in thousands
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As of and for the year ended December 31, 2009, dollars and square feet in thousands, unless otherwise indicated
 
Portfolio Summary by Investment Product
 
 
Portfolio NOI, Adjusted NOI and Interest Income
 
 
 
 
 
 
As of and for the year ended December 31, 2009, dollars in thousands
 
Geographic Diversification
(1)
 
 
 
Operator/Tenant Diversification
 
 
 
As of December 31, 2009, dollars and square feet in thousands
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At December 31, 2009, dollars and square feet in thousands
 
 
 
 
 
 
Operator Concentration
(3)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dollars in thousands, unless otherwise indicated
 
Portfolio Trends
 
 
 
 
 
 
As of and for the year ended December 31, 2009, dollars in thousands
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In thousands
 
 
 
 
(1)
   
Financial information is combined by primary segment of each joint venture (i.e., HCP Ventures III and HCP Ventures IV are combined under the MOB columns).
 
 
In thousands
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1)
   
Financial information is combined by primary segment of each joint venture (i.e., HCP Ventures III and HCP Ventures IV are combined under the MOB columns).
 
 
As of and for the year ended December 31, 2009, dollars and square feet in thousands
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1)
      
All facilities are operated by Horizon Bay Senior Communities.
(2)
      
For MOBs and life science facilities, occupancy are presented as of the end of the period reported. For senior housing, occupancy represents the facilities' average operating occupancy for the trailing twelve months and are one quarter in arrears from the period reported.
(3)
      
At December 31, 2009, the average three-month occupancy for senior housing facilities was 90.0%. These occupancy percentages are one quarter in arrears from the period presented.
(4)
      
Certain operators in the Investment Management Platform hospital portfolio are not required under their respective leases to provide operational data.
 
 
Adjusted Fixed Charge Coverage.
  Adjusted EBITDA divided by Fixed Charges.  The Company uses Adjusted Fixed Charge Coverage, a non-GAAP financial measure, as a measure of liquidity. The Company believes Adjusted Fixed Charge Coverage provides investors, particularly fixed income investors, relevant and useful information because it measures the Company's ability to meet its interest payments on outstanding debt and pay dividends to its preferred stockholders. The Company's various debt agreements contain covenants that require the Company to maintain ratios similar to Adjusted Fixed Charge Coverage and credit rating agencies utilize similar ratios in evaluating and determining the credit rating on certain debt instruments of the Company.  However, since this ratio is derived from Adjusted EBITDA and Fixed Charges, its usefulness is limited by the same factors that limit the usefulness of Adjusted EBITDA and Fixed Charges.  Further, the Company's computation of Adjusted Fixed Charge Coverage may not be comparable to similar fixed charge coverage ratios reported by other companies.
 
The following table details the calculation of Adjusted Fixed Charge Coverage:
 
 
Annualized Debt Service
.
  The most recent monthly interest and principal amortization due to HCP as of period end annualized for twelve months.  The Company uses Annualized Debt Service for purposes of determining Debt Service Coverage.
 
Annualized Revenues.
  The most recent monthly base rent, income from direct financing leases and/or interest income annualized for twelve months.  Annualized Revenues do not include tenant recoveries, additional rents and non-cash revenue adjustments (i.e., straight-line rents, amortization of above and below market lease intangibles, interest accretion and deferred revenues).  The Company uses Annualized Revenues for the purpose of determining Relationship Concentrations, Lease Expirations and Debt Investment Maturities.
 
Assets Held for Sale
.
  Assets of discontinued operations in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144, .
Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets
 
Assisted Living Facility ("ALF"). 
A senior housing facility that predominantly consists of assisted living units is classified by the Company as an ALF.
 
Beds/Units/Square Feet.
  Senior housing facilities are measured in units (e.g., studio, one or two bedroom units).  MOBs and life science facilities are measured in square feet. Hospitals and skilled nursing facilities are measured in licensed bed count.
 
Cash Flow Coverage ("CFC"). 
Facility EBITDAR or Facility EBITDARM for the most recent twelve months of available data divided by the Same Period Rent.  Cash Flow Coverage is a supplemental measure of a property's ability to generate cash flows for the operator/tenant (not the Company) to meet the operator's/tenant's related rent and other obligations to the Company.  However, its usefulness is limited by, among other things, the same factors that limit the usefulness of Facility EBITDAR or Facility EBITDARM.  The coverages shown exclude newly completed facilities under start-up, vacant facilities and facilities for which data is not available or meaningful.
 
Consolidated Assets.
  Total assets as reported in the Company's consolidated financial statements.
 
Consolidated Debt.
  The carrying amount of bank line of credit, bridge and term loans (if applicable), senior unsecured notes, mortgage and other secured debt, and other debt as reported in the Company's consolidated financial statements.
 
Consolidated Gross Assets.
  The carrying amount of total assets, excluding investments in and advances to unconsolidated joint ventures, after adding back accumulated depreciation and amortization, as reported in the Company's consolidated financial statements.
 
Consolidated Market Capitalization.
 Consolidated Debt at Book Value plus Consolidated Market Equity.
 
Consolidated Market Equity.
  The total number of outstanding shares of the Company's common stock multiplied by the closing price per share of its common stock on the New York Stock Exchange as of period end, plus the total number of convertible partnership units multiplied by the closing price per share of its common stock on the New York Stock Exchange as of period end (adjusted for stock splits), plus the total number of outstanding shares of the Company's preferred stock multiplied by the closing price of its preferred stock on the New York Stock Exchange as of period end.
 
Consolidated Secured Debt.
  Mortgage and other secured debt secured by real estate excluding debt on assets held for sale as reported in the Company's consolidated financial statements.
 
Continuing Care Retirement Community ("CCRC"). 
A senior housing facility which provides at least three levels of care (i.e., independent living, assisted living and skilled nursing) is classified by the Company as a CCRC.
 
Debt Investments.
  Loans secured by a direct interest in real estate and mezzanine loans.
 
Debt Service
. 
The periodic payment of interest expense and principal amortization on secured loans.
 
 
 
 
 
Debt Service Coverage
("DSC").
  Facility EBITDA(R) or Facility EBITDA(R)M for the most recent twelve months of available data divided by Annualized Debt Service. Debt Service Coverage is a supplemental measure of the property's ability to generate sufficient cash flows for the operator/tenant (not the Company) to meet the operator's/tenant's related obligations to the Company under loan agreements.  However, its usefulness is limited by the same factors that limit the usefulness of Facility EBITDA(R) or Facility EBITDA(R)M.  The coverages shown exclude newly completed facilities under start-up, vacant facilities and facilities for which data is not available or meaningful.
 
Development.
  Includes ground-up construction and redevelopments.
 
Direct Financing Lease ("DFL").
  The Company uses the direct finance method of accounting to record income from DFLs.  For leases accounted for as DFLs, future minimum lease payments are recorded as a receivable.  The difference between the future minimum lease payments and the estimated residual values less the cost of the properties is recorded as unearned income.  Unearned income is deferred and amortized to income over the lease terms to provide a constant yield.
 
Estimated Completion Date.
 
For development projects, management's estimate of the date the core and shell structure improvements are expected to be or have been completed.  For redevelopment projects, management's estimate of the time in which major construction activity in relation to the scope of the project has been substantially completed.
 
EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA.
 The real estate industry uses earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ("EBITDA"), a non-GAAP financial measure, as a measure of both operating performance and liquidity.  Adjusted EBITDA is calculated as EBITDA excluding impairments and gains or losses from real estate dispositions. The Company uses EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA to measure both its operating performance and liquidity.  The Company considers Adjusted EBITDA to provide investors relevant and useful information because it permits investors to view income from its operations on an unleveraged basis before the effects of taxes, non-cash depreciation and amortization, impairments, litigation provision and gains or losses from real estate dispositions.  By excluding interest expense, Adjusted EBITDA allows investors to measure the Company's operating performance independent of its capital structure and indebtedness and, therefore, allows for a more meaningful comparison of its operating performance between quarters as well as annual periods and to compare its operating performance to that of other companies, both in the real estate industry and in other industries. As a liquidity measure, the Company believes that EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA help investors analyze the Company's ability to meet its interest payments on outstanding debt and to make preferred dividend payments. The Company believes investors should consider EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA, in conjunction with net income (the primary measure of the Company's performance) and the other required GAAP measures of its performance and liquidity, to improve their understanding of the Company's operating results and liquidity, and to make more meaningful comparisons of its performance between periods and as against other companies.  EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA have limitations as analytical tools and should be used in conjunction with the Company's required GAAP presentations.  EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA do not reflect the Company's historical cash expenditures or future cash requirements for capital expenditures or contractual commitments.  While Adjusted EBITDA is a relevant and widely used measure of operating performance and liquidity, it does not represent net income or cash flow from operations as defined by GAAP and it should not be considered as an alternative to those indicators in evaluating operating performance or liquidity.  Further, the Company's computation of EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to similar measures reported by other companies.
 
The following table reconciles Adjusted EBITDA from net income (loss):
 
 
 
 
 
 
Facility EBITDA(R) ("EBITDA(R)").
 
Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and rent for a particular facility accruing to the operator/tenant of the property (not the Company), for the trailing twelve months and one quarter in arrears from the date presented. The Company uses Facility EBITDA(R) in determining Cash Flow Coverage and Debt Service Coverage.  Facility EBITDA(R) has limitations as an analytical tool.  Facility EBITDA(R) does not reflect historical cash expenditures or future cash requirements for facility capital expenditures or contractual commitments.  In addition, Facility EBITDA(R) does not represent a property's net income or cash flow from operations and should not be considered an alternative to those indicators.  However, the Company receives periodic financial information from operators/tenants regarding the performance of the Company's facilities under the operator's/tenant's management.  The Company utilizes Facility EBITDA(R) as a supplemental measure of the ability of those properties to generate sufficient liquidity to meet related obligations to the Company.  Facility EBITDA(R) includes the greater of (i) contractual management fees or (ii) an imputed management fee of 2% for acute care hospitals and 5% for skilled nursing facilities and senior housing facilities which the Company believes represents typical management fees in their respective industries.  All facility financial performance data was derived solely from information provided by operators/tenants and borrowers without independent verification by the Company.
 
Facility EBITDA
(R)
M ("EBITDA
(R)
M").
 
Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, rent and management fees for a particular facility accruing to the operator/tenant of the property (not the Company
), for the trailing twelve months and one quarter in arrears from the date presented.  The Company uses Facility EBITDA(R)M in determining Cash Flow Coverage and Debt Service Coverage.  Facility EBITDA(R)M has limitations as an analytical tool.  Facility EBITDA(R)M does not reflect historical cash expenditures or future cash requirements for facility capital expenditures or contractual commitments.  In addition, Facility EBITDA(R)M does not represent a property's net income or cash flow from operations and should not be considered an alternative to those indicators.  However, the Company receives periodic financial information from operators/tenants regarding the performance of the Company's facilities under the operator's/tenant's management.  The Company utilizes Facility EBITDA(R)M as a supplemental measure of the ability of those properties to generate sufficient liquidity to meet related obligations to the Company.  All facility financial performance data was derived solely from information provided by operators/tenants and borrowers without independent verification by the Company.
 
Financial Leverage.
 
Total Debt divided by Total Gross Assets. The Company believes that its Financial Leverage is a meaningful supplemental measure of its financial position, which enables both management and investors to analyze its leverage and to compare its leverage to that of other companies. The Company believes that its Financial Leverage is a meaningful supplemental measure of its financial position, which enables both management and investors to analyze its leverage and to compare its leverage to that of other companies.  The Company believes that the ratio of consolidated debt to consolidated gross assets is the most directly comparable GAAP measure to Financial Leverage.  The Company's computation of its Financial Leverage may not be identical to the computations of financial leverage reported by other companies.  The Company's share of total debt is not intended to reflect its actual liability or ability to access assets should there be a default under any or all of such loans or a liquidation of the joint ventures.
 
Fixed Charges.
 Total interest expense plus capitalized interest plus preferred stock dividends.  The Company uses Fixed Charges to measure its interest payments on outstanding debt and dividends to its preferred stockholders for purposes of presenting Fixed Charge Coverage and Adjusted Fixed Charge Coverage.  However, the usefulness of Fixed Charges is limited as, among other things, it does not include all contractual obligations.  The Company's computation of Fixed Charges should not be considered an alternative to fixed charges as defined by Item 503(d) of Regulation S-K and may not be comparable to fixed charges reported by other companies.
 
Funds From Operations ("FFO").
  The Company believes that net income as defined by GAAP is the most appropriate earnings measure.  The Company also believes that Funds From Operations, or FFO, as defined by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT"), FFO applicable to common shares, Diluted FFO applicable to common shares, and Basic and Diluted FFO per common share are important non-GAAP supplemental measures of operating performance for a real estate investment trust.  Because the historical cost accounting convention used for real estate assets requires straight-line depreciation (except on land), such accounting presentation implies that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time.  However, since real estate values have historically risen or fallen with market and other conditions, presentations of operating results for a real estate investment trust that use historical cost accounting for depreciation could be less informative.  Thus, NAREIT created FFO as a supplemental measure of operating performance for real estate investment trusts that excludes historical cost depreciation and amortization, among other items, from net income, as defined by GAAP.  FFO is defined as net income, computed in accordance with GAAP, excluding gains or losses from real estate dispositions, plus real estate depreciation and amortization, with adjustments to derive the Company's pro rata share of FFO from consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures.  Adjustments for joint ventures are calculated to reflect FFO on the same basis.  The Company believes that the use of FFO, combined with the required GAAP presentations, improves the understanding of operating results of real estate investment trusts among investors and makes comparisons of operating results among such companies more meaningful.  The Company considers FFO to be a useful measure for reviewing comparative operating and financial performance because, by excluding gains or losses related to sales of previously depreciated operating real estate assets and real estate depreciation and amortization, FFO can help investors compare the operating performance of a real estate investment trust between periods or as compared to other companies.  While FFO is a relevant and widely used measure of operating performance of real estate investment trusts, it does not represent cash flows from operations or net income as defined by GAAP and should not be considered an alternative to those measures in evaluating the Company's liquidity or operating performance. FFO also does not consider the costs associated with capital expenditures related to the Company's real estate assets nor is FFO necessarily indicative of cash available to fund the Company's future cash requirements. Further, the Company's computation of FFO may not be comparable to FFO reported by other real estate investment trusts that do not define the term in accordance with the current NAREIT definition or that interpret the current NAREIT definition differently from the Company.
For a reconciliation of FFO to net income, please refer to the slide in this supplemental information package captioned "Consolidated Funds From Operations."
 
FFO Payout Ratio.
  Dividends declared per common share divided by Diluted FFO per common share for a given period.  The Company believes the FFO Payout Ratio per Common Share provides investors relevant and useful information because it measures the portion of FFO being declared as dividends to common stockholders.  FFO Payout Ratio per Common Share is subject to the same limitations noted in the definition of FFO above.
 
HCP Life Science.
  Includes three unconsolidated joint ventures between the Company and an institutional capital partner for which the Company is the managing member.  HCP Life Science includes the following partnerships: (i) Torrey Pines Science Center LP (50%), (ii) Britannia Biotech Gateway LP (55%) and (iii) LASDK LP (63%).  The unconsolidated joint ventures were acquired as part of the Company's purchase of Slough Estates USA Inc. on August 1, 2007.
 
HCP Ventures II.
  An unconsolidated joint venture formed on January 5, 2007 between the Company and an institutional capital partner, for which the Company is the managing member and has a 35% interest.
 
HCP Ventures III. 
An unconsolidated joint venture formed on October 27, 2006 between the Company and an institutional capital partner, for which the Company is the managing member and has an effective 25.5% interest.
 
HCP Ventures IV.
  An unconsolidated joint venture formed on April 30, 2007 between the Company and an institutional capital partner, for which the Company is the managing member and has a 20% interest.
 
Independent Living Facility ("ILF").
  A senior housing facility that predominantly consists of independent living units.
 
Investment
.Represents (i) the carrying amount of real estate assets, including intangibles, after adding back accumulated depreciation and amortization, excluding assets held for sale and classified as discontinued operations and (ii) the carrying amount of DFLs and debt investments.
 
 
Investment Management Platform
.Includes the following unconsolidated joint ventures: (i) HCP Life Science, (ii) HCP Ventures II, (iii) HCP Ventures III and (iv) HCP Ventures IV.
 
 
Life Science.
  Laboratory and office space primarily for biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, scientific research institutions, government agencies and other entities involved in the life science industry.
 
Long-Term Acute Care Hospitals ("LTACHs").
  LTACHs provide care for patients with complex medical conditions that require longer stays and more intensive care, monitoring or emergency back-up than that available in most skilled nursing-based programs.
 
Net Operating Income from Continuing Operations ("NOI").
  A non-GAAP supplemental financial measure used to evaluate the operating performance of real estate properties and SPP.  The Company defines NOI as rental revenues, including tenant reimbursements and income from direct financing leases, less property level operating expenses.  NOI excludes interest income, investment management fee income, depreciation and amortization, general and administrative expenses, litigation provision, impairments, other income, net, interest expense, income tax expense (benefit), equity income from unconsolidated joint ventures and discontinued operations.  The Company believes NOI provides investors relevant and useful information because it measures the operating performance of the Company's real estate at the property level on an unleveraged basis.  NOI, as adjusted, is calculated as NOI eliminating the effects of straight-line rents, DFL interest accretion, amortization of above and below market lease intangibles, and lease termination fees. NOI, as adjusted, is sometimes referred as "adjusted NOI" or "cash basis NOI."  The Company uses NOI and NOI, as adjusted, to make decisions about resource allocations, to assess and compare property level performance, and evaluate SPP.  The Company believes that net income is the most directly comparable GAAP measure to NOI.  NOI should not be viewed as an alternative measure of operating performance to net income as defined by GAAP since it does not reflect the aforementioned excluded items.  Further, NOI may not be comparable to that of other real estate investment trusts, as they may use different methodologies for calculating NOI.
 
The following table reconciles NOI from net income (loss):
 
 
 
 
 
Occupancy
.
  For MOBs and life science facilities, occupancy represents the percentage of total rentable square feet leased where rental payments have commenced, including month-to-month leases, as of the end of the period reported. For hospitals, skilled nursing facilities and senior housing facilities, occupancy represents the facilities' average operating occupancy for the trailing twelve months and one quarter in arrears from the date reported. The percentages are calculated based on licensed beds, available beds and units for hospitals, skilled nursing facilities and senior housing facilities, respectively. The percentages shown exclude newly completed facilities under lease-up, vacant facilities and facilities for which data is not available or meaningful.  All facility financial performance data were derived solely from information provided by operators/tenants and borrowers without independent verification by the Company. For the same property portfolio, occupancy for hospitals, skilled nursing facilities and senior housing facilities are presented based on the average operating occupancy for trailing three-month period one quarter in arrears from the date reported.
 
Owned Portfolio.
  Represents owned properties subject to operating leases and DFLs and debt investments, and excludes properties under development, including redevelopment, and land held for future development.
 
Pooled Leases.
  Two or more leases to the same operator/tenant or their subsidiaries under which their obligations are combined by virtue of a master lease, or multiple master leases, a pooling agreement, or multiple pooling agreements, or cross-guaranties. Sunrise Senior Living percentage pooled consists of 75 assets under 11 separate pools.
 
Redevelopment Projects.
  Properties that require significant capital expenditures (generally more than 25% of acquired cost or existing basis) to achieve stabilization or to change the use of the properties.
 
Rehabilitation Hospitals ("Rehab").
  Rehabilitation hospitals provide inpatient and outpatient care for patients who have sustained traumatic injuries or illnesses, such as spinal cord injuries, strokes, head injuries, orthopedic problems, work-related disabilities and neurological diseases.
 
Rental Revenues.
  Represents rental and related revenues, tenant recoveries and
income from direct financing leases.
 
Retention Rate.
  The Company defines retention rate as the ratio of total square feet expiring and available for lease to total renewed square feet, excluding the square feet for tenant leases terminated for default or buy-out prior to the expiration of their lease
.
 
Same Period Rent.
  The base rent plus additional rent due to the Company over the most recent trailing twelve-month period as of period end.  The Company uses Same Period Rent for purposes of determining property-level Cash Flow Coverage.
 
Same Property Portfolio ("SPP").
  An important component of the Company's evaluation of the operating performance of its properties.  The Company defines its same property portfolio each quarter as those properties that have been in operation throughout the current year and the prior year and that were also in operation at January 1st of the prior year.  Newly acquired assets, developments and redevelopments in process and assets classified in discontinued operations are excluded from the same property portfolio.  Same property statistics allow management to evaluate the NOI of the Company's real estate portfolio as a consistent population from period to period and eliminates the effects of changes in the composition of the properties on performance measures. SPP NOI excludes certain non-property specific operating expenses that are allocated to each operating segment on a consolidated basis.
 
Senior Housing.
  ALFs, ILFs and CCRCs.  For reporting purposes, the Company's senior housing portfolio also includes a school formerly operated as an assisted living facility and six health and wellness centers.
 
Specialty Hospitals.
  Specialty hospitals are licensed as acute care hospitals but focus on providing care in specific areas such as cardiac, orthopedic and women's conditions, or specific procedures such as surgery and are less likely to provide emergency services.
 
Square Feet.
  The square footage for properties, excluding square footage for development or redevelopment properties prior to completion.
 
Stabilization.
  Assets are considered stabilized at the earlier of achieving 90% occupancy or one year from the completion of development or redevelopment activities.
 
Total Debt. 
Consolidated Debt at Book Value plus the Company's pro rata share of debt from the Investment Management Platform.
 
Total Gross Assets.
  Consolidated Gross Assets plus the Company's pro rata share of total assets from the Investment Management Platform, after adding back accumulated depreciation and amortization.
 
The following table details the calculation of Total Gross Assets:
 
 
Total Market Capitalization.
  Total Debt plus Consolidated Market Equity.
 
Total Secured Debt.
 Consolidated secured debt plus the Company's pro rata share of mortgage debt from the Investment Management Platform.
 
Yield.
  Yield is calculated as Net Operating Income, as adjusted, divided by total investment.  For acquisitions, initial yields are calculated as projected Net Operating Income, twelve months forward, as adjusted, as of the closing date divided by total acquisition cost.  The total acquisition cost basis includes the initial purchase price, the effects of adjusting assumed debt to market, lease intangible adjustments and all transaction costs.
 
 
 
 
(1)
      
Reflects the Company's pro rata share of amounts from the Investment Management Platform.
 


