FILE:HCP/HCP-8K-20110531171042.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 30, 2011, Timothy M. Schoen was appointed to the position of Executive Vice PresidentChief Financial Officer of HCP, Inc. (the Company), effective May 31, 2011.  Since January 2009, Mr. Schoen, 43, has been the Companys   Mr. Schoen joined HCP in 2006 following a nine year career in Corporate Finance at Kilroy Realty Corporation where he was responsible for capital markets and financial planning and analysis.
Executive Vice PresidentLife Science Estates and was previously the Companys Senior Vice President, Investment Management since 2007.
 
In connection with his new role at the Company, Mr. Schoen will receive an increase in his annual salary to $500,000.  In addition, in connection with his appointment, Mr. Schoen was awarded restricted stock units with a grant value of $500,000, which vest in one-quarter increments beginning with the first anniversary of grant.
On May 31, 2011, James W. Mercer and the Company entered into an Employment Agreement (the Employment Agreement), pursuant to which Mr. Mercer  was appointed to the position of Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of the Company, effective July 1, 2011.  Since 2006, Mr. Mercer, 66, has been Of Counsel at Bryan Cave LLP.  From September 2005 until he joined Bryan Cave, Mr. Mercer was Of Counsel at Bird, Marella, Boxer, Wolpert, Nessim, Drooks & Lincenberg.  Prior to joining Bird Marella, Mr. Mercer served as a member of the senior management team at WebMD Corporation and its predecessor companies.
Under the Employment Agreement, Mr. Mercer will receive an annual salary of $500,000 and a bonus for 2011 of $312,500.  After 2011, bonuses will be discretionary in accordance with the compensation arrangements of the Company as in effect from time to time.  In addition, in connection with his appointment, Mr. Mercer will be awarded restricted stock units with a grant value of $750,000, which vest in one-third increments beginning with the first anniversary of grant.  So long as Mr. Mercer remains employed by the Company as of the date of grant, in the first quarter of 2012 he will be granted a combination of performance based restricted stock units and stock options with a value upon grant of no less than $625,000, which vest in one-quarter increments beginning with the first anniversary of grant.  The term of the Employment Agreement will continue for three years following the effective date, unless Mr. Mercers employment is earlier terminated under the terms of the Employment Agreement, provided that, on each of the third and fourth anniversaries of the effective date, the Employment Agreement will be renewed for an additional one-year period unless the Company or Mr. Mercer provides at least 60 days' advance notice of its or his intent to not renew the Employment Agreement.  In the event that Mr. Mercer's employment is terminated by the Company without "Cause" or by Mr. Mercer with "Good Reason" (each as defined in the Employment Agreement) and Mr. Mercer executes a general release of claims and complies with all applicable restrictive covenants, Mr. Mercer will be entitled to, in addition to certain Accrued Benefits (as defined in the Employment Agreement), (i) an amount equal to the lesser of (A) 24 months of his base salary, at the rate then in effect, or (B) the total amount of his base salary, at the rate then in effect, that would have been paid had he remained employed for the remainder of the term, (ii) the full acceleration of the $750,000 restricted stock grant discussed above, (iii) 12 months accelerated vesting of remaining equity and (iv) if he is eligible for and elects continuation of health care coverage under COBRA, reimbursement for the full amount of his COBRA premium payments for a period of 12 months.  Mr. Mercer will also be eligible to receive the Accrued Benefits in the event his employment is terminated due to death or disability.  The Employment Agreement provides that if any amounts to be paid to Mr. Mercer by the Company or any of its affiliates, whether under the Employment Agreement or otherwise, would constitute "excess parachute payments" subject to the excise tax imposed under Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code, the amount will be reduced to the extent necessary to avoid the excise tax.  The Employment Agreement contains customary non-competition, non-solicitation, non-disparagement and confidentiality covenants.  The non-competition and non-solicitation restrictions will continue in effect during Mr. Mercers employment and for 12 months thereafter.  The non-disparagement and confidentiality obligations shall apply during his employment and at all times thereafter.
 
 
 
The foregoing description of certain provisions of the Employment Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Employment Agreement filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference.
On May 26, 2011, J. Alberto Gonzalez-Pita, Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of the Company, and the Company entered into a Separation, Consulting and General Release Agreement (the Separation Agreement) pursuant to which Mr. Gonzalez submitted his resignation from his position at the Company effective June 30, 2011 (the Separation Date) to pursue other business and legal interests.  In order to facilitate an orderly transition, Mr. Gonzalez has agreed to provide certain consulting services to the Company until December 31, 2011.
Under the Separation Agreement, Mr. Gonzalez will receive the following consideration for consulting services provided to the Company for the six month period following the Separation Date (the Consulting Term): (1) a consulting fee of $50,000 per month payable in semi-monthly installments during the Consulting Term and (2) a bonus in the amount of $115,000, payable at the end of the Consulting Term and conditioned upon his execution and non-revocation of a supplemental release to be entered into with the Company.  In addition, Mr. Gonzalez will also receive the following additional consideration under the Separation Agreement: (1) cash payments of $125,000 per month for a period of 12 months following the Separation Date; (2) a lump sum cash payment of $50,000 to reimburse Mr. Gonzalez for the estimated premiums for 24 months of COBRA continuation coverage; and (3) continued directors and officers insurance coverage.  Any Company stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units or other equity or equity-related compensation previously granted to Mr. Gonzalez that are not vested as of the Separation Date will be cancelled.
The foregoing description of certain provisions of the Separation Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Separation Agreement filed as Exhibit 10.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference.
On May 31, 2011, the Company issued a press release, attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K, announcing the appointment of Messrs. Schoen and Mercer and the resignation of Mr. Gonzalez.  The information set forth in this Item 7.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the text of the press release, attached as Exhibit 99 hereto, is being furnished to, but not filed with, the Securities and Exchange Commission.
(d)           Exhibits. The following exhibits are being filed herewith:
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated:    May 31, 2011
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
(this ) is made and entered into on May 31, 2011, by and between HCP, Inc. (the ) and James W. Mercer ().  Where the context permits, references to the Company shall include the Company and any successor of the Company.
THIS EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT
Agreement
Company
Executive
 
, the Company and Executive mutually desire to set forth herein the terms and conditions pursuant to which Executive will serve as the Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of the Company (the ), beginning July 1, 2011 (the ).
WHEREAS
General Counsel
Effective Date
 
, in consideration of the mutual promises, covenants and agreements herein contained, together with other good and valuable consideration, the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto do hereby agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE
 
           .  Subject to Section 2 hereof, from and after the Effective Date, Executive shall, pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, be employed by the Company as the Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary.  The principal location of Executives employment with the Company shall be at the Companys headquarters in Long Beach, California, although Executive understands and agrees that Executive may be required to travel from time to time for business reasons.  During the Term (as defined in Section 2), Executive shall be a full-time employee of the Company, shall dedicate substantially all of Executives working time to the Company, and shall have no other employment or other business ventures which are undisclosed to the Company or which conflict with Executives duties under this Agreement.  Executive shall have such authorities, duties and responsibilities as the Companys chief executive officer (or delegee) may from time to time assign to him and reasonably consistent with those customarily performed by a General Counsel of a company having a similar size and nature of the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall prohibit Executive from participating in trade associations or industry organizations which are related to the business of the Company or engaging in charitable, civic or political activities, so long as such interests do not materially interfere, individually or in the aggregate, with the performance of Executives duties hereunder.
1.
SERVICES AND DUTIES
 
           .  Executives employment under the terms and conditions of this Agreement shall commence on the Effective Date.  Such employment shall continue for an initial term of three (3) year following the Effective Date (the ), which will be automatically extended on the last day of the Initial Term for an additional one (1)-year term (the ) and thereafter for one additional one (1)-year term at the expiration
2.
TERM
Initial Term
First Renewal Term
 
 
 
 
of the Initial Renewal Term (the ) (collectively, these terms hereinafter referred to as the ), unless either the Executive or the Company has given written notice to the other no less than sixty (60) days prior to the expiration of the Term that the Term shall not be so extended.  Notwithstanding the above, the Term shall earlier expire immediately upon the termination of Executives employment pursuant to Section 5 hereof.
Second Renewal Term
Term
 
         .
3.
COMPENSATION
 
        .  The Company shall pay to Executive a base salary in the amount of $500,000 per annum in accordance with the regular payroll practices of the Company (the base salary as in effect from time to time, the ).  Payment of the Base Compensation is subject to customary employee contributions to any benefit programs in which Executive is enrolled.  The Base Compensation may be increased from time to time at the Companys sole discretion, but in no event shall the Base Compensation be reduced without Executives approval.
(a)
Base Compensation
Base Compensation
 
        .  For each calendar year during the Term, Executive shall be eligible to receive an annual cash incentive award (an ), the actual amount of such bonus will be determined based on the achievement of performance criteria relating to both Executive and the Company, as determined each year in good faith by the Compensation Committee (the ) of the Board of Directors (the ) of the Company (or any successor thereto).  The Annual Bonus for 2011 shall be $312,500, payable only if Executive has not resigned or been terminated for Cause prior to December 31, 2011.  The Annual Bonus, if any, shall be paid to Executive by no later than March 15 of the year following the year to which such Annual Bonus relates, so long as Executive is actively employed by the Company and has not provided a notice of resignation to the Company or received a notice of termination from the Company as of the date of payment.
(b)
Annual Cash Bonus
Annual Bonus
Compensation Committee
Board
 
        .
(c)
Equity Award
 
           As soon as practicable after the Effective Date, Executive shall be granted a one-time award of restricted stock grant with a value of $750,000, based on the average closing stock price on the 10 trading days immediately preceding the Effective Date, which stock grant shall vest in equal, annual tranches over three years following the date of grant.
(i)
 
           So long as Executive is actively employed by the Company and has not provided a notice of resignation to the Company or received a notice of termination from the Company as of the date of grant, in the first quarter of 2012, Executive shall be granted a combination of  performance based restricted stock units, and stock options with a value upon grant (defined below) of no less than $625,000, which shall vest in equal, annual tranches over four years following the date of grant, generally subject to Executives continued employment with the Company as of the applicable vesting date, and shall otherwise be subject to the terms
(ii)
 
 
2
 
and conditions of this Agreement and, to the extent not inconsistent with this Agreement, the terms and conditions of the applicable plan documents and the definitive award agreement.  Value Upon Grant means (i) for restricted stock units, the value of HCPs common stock on the date of the grant times the number of shares granted, plus (ii) for stock options, the value as calculated by the Black-Scholes, or other similar valuation method, times the number of options granted.
 
           .  All taxable compensation payable to Executive pursuant to this Agreement shall be subject to any applicable withholding taxes and such other taxes as are required under Federal law or the law of any state or governmental body to be collected with respect to compensation paid by the Company to Executive.
(iii)
Withholding
 
         .
4.
BENEFITS AND PERQUISITES
 
        .  Commencing no later than August 1, 2011 and thereafter during the Term, Executive shall be eligible to participate in all fringe benefits, perquisites, and such other benefit plans and arrangements as are made available to the Companys senior executives during the Term.  The benefits described herein shall be subject to the applicable terms of the applicable plans and shall be governed in all respects in accordance with the terms of such plans as from time to time in effect.  Nothing in this Section 4, however, shall require the Company to maintain any benefit plan or provide any type or level of benefits to its current or former employees, including Executive.
(a)
Retirement and Welfare Benefits
 
        .  During the Term, Executive shall be entitled to 24 paid vacation days per full calendar year.  Vacation days are subject to the Companys vacation policies as in effect from time to time, including any maximum cap of vacation time which may be accrued that exceeds Executives annual entitlement.
(b)
Paid Time Off
 
        .  The Company shall reimburse Executive for any and all expenses reasonably incurred by Executive during the Term in performing Executives duties hereunder, including travel, meals and accommodations, upon submission by Executive of vouchers or receipts and in compliance with such rules and policies relating thereto as the Company may from time to time adopt.
(c)
Reimbursement of Expenses
 
           .  The Term and Executives employment hereunder may be terminated (1) by the Company for Cause (as defined and determined below), effective on the date on which a written notice to such effect (a ) is delivered to Executive; (2) by the Company at any time without Cause (which includes pursuant to an election by the Company not to renew the Term, the written notice (pursuant to Section 2) of which shall be deemed a notice of termination of Executives employment hereunder), effective sixty (60) days following the date on which a written notice to such effect is delivered to Executive or, at the election of the Company in its sole discretion, such earlier date as is
5.
TERMINATION
Cause Termination Notice
 
 
3
 
reasonably designated by the Company, provided that the Company shall continue to pay Executives Base Compensation for sixty (60) days following such notice of termination; (3) by Executive for Good Reason (as defined and determined below), effective sixty (60) days following the date on which a written notice to such effect is delivered to the Company; or (4) by Executive at any time, effective sixty (60) days following the date on which a written notice to such effect is delivered to the Company (or its successors).  Upon any termination of Executives employment hereunder, Executive shall be entitled to receive the following:  (i) any accrued but unpaid Base Compensation (to be paid as provided in Section 3(a)); (ii) reimbursement for expenses incurred by Executive prior to the date of termination in accordance with Section 4(c) hereof; (iii) vested benefits, if any, to which Executive may be entitled under the Companys employee benefit plans as of the date of termination; and (iv) any additional amounts or benefits due under any applicable plan, program, agreement or arrangement of the Company or its Affiliates (such plans, programs, agreements and arrangements, collectively,  and the amounts and benefits described in clauses (i) through (iv) above, collectively, the ).  Accrued Benefits under this Section 5 shall in all events be paid in accordance with the Companys payroll procedures, expense reimbursement procedures or plan terms, as applicable, or in accordance with applicable law.
Company Arrangements
Accrued Benefits
 
        .  If Executives employment hereunder is terminated during the Term by the Company for Cause or by Executive without Good Reason, Executive shall not be entitled to any further compensation or benefits other than the Accrued Benefits.
(a)
Termination by the Company for Cause or by Executive without Good Reason
 
        .  If Executives employment hereunder is terminated during the Term (I) by the Company (A) other than for Cause, and other than due to Executives death or Disability (as defined below) or (B) as a result of the Companys non-renewal of the Term, or (II) by Executive with Good Reason, then Executive shall be entitled to (1) the Accrued Benefits and (2) upon Executives execution of a general release of claims that is substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A (the ), and the expiration of the applicable revocation period with respect to such Release within sixty (60) days following the date of termination, and provided that Executive does not materially breach the restrictive covenants set forth in Section 6 hereof or in any other agreement between Executive and the Company or to which Executive is a party (including, without limitation, any restricted stock agreement between the Company and Executive (collectively, )) or any other ongoing obligation to which Executive is subject as of the date of termination:
(b)
Termination by the Company without Cause or by Executive With Good Reason
Release
Restrictive Covenants
 
           an amount equal to the lesser of (x) the sum of 24 months of Base Compensation, at the rate then in effect or (y) the total amount of Base Compensation, at the rate then in effect, that would have been paid to Executive had he remained employed for the remainder of the Term, to be paid in equal installments in accordance with the regular payroll
(i)
 
 
4
 
practices of the Company over a 12-month period commencing on the first payroll date following the date of termination, but with the first actual payment to be made on the 60 day following the date of termination, which payment shall consist of all amounts otherwise payable to the Executive pursuant to this subsection (i) between the date of termination and the 60 day following the date of termination;
th
th
 
           subject to the applicable terms and conditions of the applicable award agreements (but, in each case, only to the extent consistent with this Agreement), Executives equity (including but not limited to stock grants, performance-based restricted stock units and stock options) the vesting schedule of the grant provided pursuant to Section 3(c)(i) herein shall be fully accelerated.  Any remaining shares shall be forfeited.
(ii)
 
        .  If Executives employment hereunder terminates due to death or Disability, then Executive shall be entitled to the Accrued Benefits.
(c)
Termination Due to Death or Disability
 
        .  In the event that Executives employment hereunder is terminated (i) by the Company for Cause or (ii) by Executive without Good Reason, the Company shall reimburse Executive for the full amount of the COBRA premiums incurred by Executive during the 12 month period following the date of such termination, provided that (A) such reimbursement does not result in adverse tax consequences to the Company under Section 105(h) of the Code or otherwise and (B) such reimbursement shall immediately cease in the event that Executive becomes eligible to participate in the health insurance plan of a subsequent employer or other service recipient.
(d)
Welfare Benefit Continuation
other
than
 
        .  For purposes of this Agreement:
(e)
Definitions
 
 means an affiliate of the Company (or other referenced entity, as the case may be) as defined in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Affiliate
 
 means the occurrence of any of the following: (i) Executives willful and continued failure to perform his duties with the Corporation (other than any such failure resulting from his or her incapacity due to physical or mental illness) after a written demand for performance is delivered to Executive by the Company, which demand specifically identifies the manner in which the Company believes that Executive has not performed his duties; (ii) Executives willful and continued failure to follow and comply with the policies of the Company as in effect from time to time (other than any such failure resulting from Executives incapacity due to physical or mental illness) after a written demand for performance is delivered to Executive by the Company, which demand specifically identifies the manner in which the Company believes that Executive has not followed or complied with such Company policies; (iii) Executives willful commission of an act of fraud or dishonesty resulting in material
Cause
 
 
5
 
economic or financial injury to the Company; (iv) the Participants willful engagement in illegal conduct or gross misconduct, in each case which is materially and demonstrably injurious to the Company; (v) Executives breach of any provision of Section 6 of this Agreement; or (vi) Executives indictment for, conviction of, or a plea of guilty or to any felony.
nolo contendere
 
For purposes of clarification, if the definition of Cause set forth above, and the process associated with it, differs from the definition of cause (or similar term) in any stock incentive plan or agreement of the Company or any of its Affiliates, including the Companys incentive stock award plan or any other such plan or agreement under which a grant of restricted stock shall be made, the definition set forth above shall control.
 
 means that Executive (i) is unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months, or (ii) is, by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months, receiving income replacement benefits for a period of not less than 3 months under an accident and health plan, or disability plan, covering employees of the company or an Affiliate of the Company.
Disability
 
 means the occurrence, without the express prior written consent of Executive, of any of the following events: (i) the failure by the Company to pay the Executive any portion of Executives Base Compensation within ten (10) days of the date such compensation is due, (ii) the relocation of Executives principal location of employment, to a location outside a fifty (50) mile radius from Long Beach, California, (iii) any material diminution of Executives duties, responsibilities or authorities hereunder, (iv) any material breach by the Company of any of its material obligations to Executive, or (v) any failure of the Company to obtain the assumption in writing of its obligations under this Agreement by any successor to all or substantially all of its business or assets within 30 days after any reconstruction, amalgamation, combination, merger, consolidation, sale, liquidation, dissolution or similar transaction, unless such assumption occurs by operation of law.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, Good Reason to terminate Executives employment shall not exist unless (a) a written notice has first been delivered to the Board by Executive (the ), which Good Reason Notice (1) specifically identifies the event(s) Executive believes constitutes Good Reason and (2) provides 30 days from the date of such Good Reason Notice for the Company to cure such circumstances (the ) and (b) the Company has failed to timely cure such circumstances.  If the Company fails to timely cure such circumstances in accordance with the foregoing, Executive may send a notice to the Board that he is terminating his employment for Good Reason (), in which case his employment hereunder shall thereupon be terminated for Good Reason.  If any Good Reason Notice to the Board shall not have been delivered by Executive within ninety (90) days
Good Reason
Good Reason Notice
Good Reason Period
Good Reason Termination Notice
 
 
6
 
following the date Executive becomes aware of the purported existence of a Good Reason event, or any Good Reason Termination Notice to the Board shall not have been delivered by Executive within thirty (30) days following the end of the Good Reason Period, then any purported termination of Executives employment relating to the applicable event shall not be a termination for Good Reason under this Agreement.
 
        .  Upon a termination of Executives employment hereunder, unless requested otherwise by the Company, Executive shall resign each position (if any) that Executive then holds as an officer of the Company or as an officer or director of any of their Affiliates.
(f)
Resignation as Officer or Director
 
        .  The intent of the parties is that payments and benefits under this Agreement comply with Section 409A of the Code, to the extent subject thereto, and accordingly, to the maximum extent permitted, this Agreement shall be interpreted and administered to be in compliance therewith.  Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, Executive shall not be considered to have terminated employment with the Company for purposes of any payments under this Agreement which are subject to Section 409A of the Code until the Executive has incurred a separation from service from the Company within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code.  Each amount to be paid or benefit to be provided under this Agreement shall be construed as a separate identified payment for purposes of Section 409A of the Code.  Without limiting the foregoing and notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, to the extent required in order to avoid accelerated taxation and/or tax penalties under Section 409A of the Code, amounts that would otherwise be payable and benefits that would otherwise be provided pursuant to this Agreement during the six-month period immediately following an Executives separation from service shall instead be paid on the first business day after the date that is six months following the Executives separation from service (or, if earlier, the Executives date of death).  To the extent required to avoid an accelerated or additional tax under Section 409A of the Code, amounts reimbursable to Executive under this Agreement shall be paid to Executive on or before the last day of the year following the year in which the expense was incurred and the amount of expenses eligible for reimbursement (and in kind benefits provided to Executive) during one year may not affect amounts reimbursable or provided in any subsequent year.  The Company makes no representation that any or all of the payments described in this Agreement will be exempt from or comply with Section 409A of the Code and makes no undertaking to preclude Section 409A of the Code from applying to any such payment.
(g)
Section 409A
 
           .  Executive acknowledges that during the period of his employment with the Company or any Affiliate, he shall have access to the Companys Confidential Information (as defined below) and will meet and develop relationships with the Companys potential and existing suppliers, financing sources, clients, customers and employees.
6.
COVENANTS
 
        .
(a)
Noncompetition
 
 
7
 
          Executive agrees that during the period of his employment with the Company, Executive shall not:  (A) directly or indirectly, engage in, manage, operate, control, supervise, or participate in the management, operation, control or supervision of any business or entity which competes with (any such action individually and in the aggregate, to compete with) the Company or any of its subsidiaries (collectively, the ) or serve as an employee, consultant or in any other capacity for such business or entity; (B) have any ownership or financial interest, directly, or indirectly, in any competitor including, without limitation, as an individual, partner, shareholder (other than as a shareholder of a publicly-owned corporation in which the Executive owns less than five percent (5%) of the outstanding shares of such corporation), officer, director, employee, principal, agent or consultant, or (C) serve as a representative of any business organization; any or all of which, without first obtaining written approval of the chief executive officer of the Company.  Executive also agrees that as long as he is employed by the Company, he will not undertake the planning or organization of any business activity competitive with the Company Group.
(i)
Company Group
 
        .  Executive agrees that during the period of his employment with the Company and for twelve (12) months thereafter, Executive shall not, directly or indirectly, other than in connection with carrying out his duties during the period of his employment with the Company, solicit or induce any of the employees or consultants of the Company Group (or individuals who served as employees or consultants of the Company Group at any time during the preceding nine (9) month period):  (i) to terminate their employment or relationship with the Company Group, and/or (ii) to work for the Executive or any competitor of the Company Group.
(b)
Solicitation of Employees, Etc
 
        .  Executive agrees that during the period of his employment with the Company and for twelve (12) months thereafter, he will not use Confidential Information (as defined below) to, directly or indirectly, solicit, take away, divert or attempt to divert, the business or patronage of any clients or customers of the Company for the purpose of providing services that materially compete with the products provided by the Company at the time of Executives termination.  For purposes of this Agreement, products provided by the Company includes not only products and services which the Company then provides and/or markets or sells, but also those which it is in the process of researching and/or developing, at the time of Executives termination, and/or as to which, at the time of Executives termination, the Company has a strategic business plan in place to research, develop and/or market at some time in the future.  The restrictions on soliciting or providing services to customers of the Company apply to:  (i) any customer or customer contact of the Company with whom Executive has had any business relations during his employment (whether before or after the Effective Date) with the Company; and (ii) any customer or customer contact who was a customer or customer contact of the Company on the date of Executives termination from the Company or during the twelve-month period prior to such termination, or who was a prospective
(c)
Solicitation of Clients, Etc
 
 
8
 
customer or customer contact of the Company with whom the Company had actually met with, or had written or telephonic communications with, during said period(s).
 
        .  Executive agrees not to make critical, negative or disparaging remarks about the Company or any of its Affiliates, including, but not limited to, comments about any of its assets, services, management, business or employment practices, and not to voluntarily aid or voluntarily assist any person in any way with respect to any third party claims pursued against the Company Group.  Nothing in this Section 6(d) will prevent Executive or the Company from responding fully and accurately to any question, inquiry or request for information when required by applicable law or legal process.
(d)
Disparaging Comments
 
        .  The Company and the Executive acknowledge that:
(e)
Confidentiality
 
           The Companys business is highly competitive;
(i)
 
          The essence of that portion of the Companys business in which the Executive will be involved consists, in large degree, of trade secrets, proprietary or confidential business or financial affairs information, materials, know-how (whether or not in writing), technology, product information, personnel information regarding its employees, and intellectual property belonging to the Company and confidential and proprietary business and client relationships (all of the foregoing will be referred to collectively as ), which have been developed at great investment of time and resources by the Company Group so as to engender substantial good will of the Company, all of which are and will be the exclusive property of the Company, protected and kept secret by the Company; and
(ii)
Trade Secrets
 
         Without limiting Executives obligations under the foregoing, the Executive agrees that during the period of his employment with the Company and at all times thereafter, Executive shall keep secret and retain in strictest confidence and shall not use for his benefit or the benefit of others, except in connection with the business and affairs of the Company, all confidential information of and confidential matters (whether available in written, electronic form or orally) relating to (A) the Company Groups pricing and business (including, without limitation, the strategies employed by and the actual investments of any member of the Company Group and the contemplated business strategies and/or investments of any member of the Company Group), (B) all corporations or other business organizations in which the Company Group has or has had an investment and (C) third parties learned by Executive heretofore or hereafter directly or indirectly in connection with Executives employment with the Company or from the Company Group (the ).  In consideration of, and as a condition to, continued access to Confidential Information and without prejudice to or limitation on any other confidentiality obligation imposed by agreement or law, Executive hereby agrees to undertake to use and protect Confidential Information in accordance with restriction placed on its use or disclosure.  Without limiting the foregoing, Executive shall not disclose such Confidential Information to any director, officer, partner, employee or agent of the Company Group unless in
(iii)
Confidential Information
 
 
9
 
Executives reasonable good faith judgment, such person has a need to know such Confidential Information in furtherance of the Company Groups business, and (except in connection with the business and affairs of the Company) Executive shall not disclose Confidential Information to anyone outside of the Company Group except with the Companys express written consent.
 
         Executive acknowledges that the Companys rights in its Trade Secrets and Confidential Information would be misappropriated should the Executive use or disclose to others the Trade Secrets and/or Confidential Information outside the scope of his employment pursuant to this Agreement.
(iv)
 
          Executive agrees that during the period of his employment with the Company, Executive shall not directly or indirectly, use, disseminate, or disclose, in whole or in part, any of the Company Groups Trade Secrets to any person, firm, corporation, association, or other entity for any reason or purpose whatsoever, other than (A) in the regular and proper scope and course of Executives employment with Company, or (B) as required by law, provided, however, that Executive will give Company reasonable advance notice of any such disclosure or use that is required by law.
(v)
 
         As used in this Agreement, each of the terms Trade Secrets and Confidential Information will not include any information that becomes generally known to the public or within the relevant trade or industry unless it becomes known due to Executives violation of this Agreement.
(vi)
 
         .  Executive agrees that at all times following the termination of his employment, Executive will cooperate in all reasonable respects with the Company and its Affiliates in connection with any and all existing or future litigation, actions or proceedings (whether civil, criminal, administrative, regulatory or otherwise) brought by or against the Company or any of its Affiliates, to the extent the Company reasonably deems Executives cooperation necessary.  Executive shall be reimbursed for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by Executive as a result of such cooperation.  With respect to any and all existing or future litigation, actions or proceedings (whether civil, criminal, administrative, regulatory or otherwise) brought against Executive in connection with his employment by the Company, the Company will honor, and proceed in accordance with, its bylaws as in effect from time to time.
(f)
Cooperation
 
        .  Nothing contained in this Section 6 shall limit any common law or statutory obligation that Executive may have to the Company or any of its Affiliates.  For purposes of all provisions of this Section 6, the Company refers to the Company and any incorporated or unincorporated Affiliates of the Company, including any entity which becomes Executives employer as a result of any reorganization or restructuring of the Company for any reason.
(g)
No Limitation
 
 
10
 
.  Executive agrees and acknowledges that each restrictive covenant in this Section 6 is reasonable as to duration, terms and geographical area and that the same protects the legitimate interests of the Company and its Affiliates, imposes no undue hardship on Executive, is not injurious to the public, and that, notwithstanding any provision in this Agreement to the contrary, any violation of this restrictive covenant shall be specifically enforceable in any court of competent jurisdiction.  Executive agrees and acknowledges that a portion of the compensation paid to Executive under this Agreement will be paid in consideration of the covenants contained in this Section 6, the sufficiency of which consideration is hereby acknowledged.  If any provision of this Section 6 as applied to Executive or to any circumstance is adjudged by a court with jurisdiction upon short notice to be invalid or unenforceable, the same shall in no way affect any other circumstance or the validity or enforceability of any other provisions of this Section 6.  If the scope of any such provision, or any part thereof, is too broad to permit enforcement of such provision to its full extent, Executive agrees that the court making such determination shall have the power to reduce the duration and/or area of such provision, and/or to delete specific words or phrases, and in its reduced form, such provision shall then be enforceable and shall be enforced.  Executive agrees and acknowledges that the breach of this Section 6 will cause irreparable injury to the Company and upon breach of any provision of this Section 6, the Company shall be entitled to seek injunctive relief, specific performance or other equitable relief by any court with jurisdiction upon short notice; provided, however, that this shall in no way limit any other remedies which the Company may have (including, without limitation, the right to seek monetary damages).  Each of the covenants in this Section 6 shall be construed as an agreement independent of any other provisions in this Agreement.
(h)
       
Acknowledgement
 
         .  Nothing in this Agreement shall restrict either party from making truthful statements (i) when required by law, subpoena, court order or the like; (ii) when requested by a governmental, regulatory, or similar body or entity; or (iii) in confidence to a professional advisor for the purpose of securing professional advice.
(i)
Permitted Statements
 
           .
7.
SECTION 280G
 
(a)           Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, in the event that any payment or benefit received or to be received by Executive or the termination of Executives employment, whether pursuant to the terms of this Agreement or any other plan, arrangement or agreement) (all such payments and benefits being hereinafter referred to as the ) would not be deductible (in whole or part) by the Company or any Affiliates making such payment or providing such benefit as a result of Section 280G of the Code, then, to the extent necessary to make such portion of the Total Payments deductible (and after taking into account any reduction in the Total Payments provided by reason of Section 280G of the Code in such other plan, arrangement or agreement), the portion of the Total Payments that do not constitute deferred compensation within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code shall first be
Total Payments
 
 
11
 
reduced (if necessary, to zero), and all other Total Payments shall thereafter be reduced (if necessary, to zero), with cash payments being reduced before non-cash payments, and payments to be paid last being reduced first.
 
(b)           For purposes of this limitation, (i) no portion of the Total Payments the receipt or enjoyment of which Executive shall have waived at such time and in such manner as not to constitute a payment within the meaning of Section 280G(b) of the Code shall be taken into account; (ii) no portion of the Total Payments shall be taken into account which, in the opinion of tax counsel () reasonably acceptable to Executive and selected by the accounting firm which was, immediately prior to the Change in Control, the Companys independent auditor (the ), does not constitute a parachute payment within the meaning of Section 280G(b)(2) of the Code, including by reason of Section 280G(b)(4)(A) of the Code; (iii) the severance payments payable to Executive pursuant to Section 5 hereof shall be reduced only to the extent necessary so that the Total Payments (other than those referred to in clauses (i) or (ii) of this paragraph) in their entirety constitute reasonable compensation for services actually rendered within the meaning of Section 280G(b)(4)(B) of the Code or are otherwise not subject to disallowance as deductions by reason of Section 280G of the Code, in the opinion of Tax Counsel; and (iv) the value of any non-cash benefit or any deferred payment or benefit included in the Total Payments shall be determined by the Auditor in accordance with the principles of Sections 280G(d)(3) and (4) of the Code.
Tax Counsel
Auditor
 
(c)           If it is established pursuant to a final determination of a court of competent jurisdiction or an Internal Revenue Service proceeding that, notwithstanding the good faith of Executive and the Company in applying the terms of this Section 7, the Total Payments paid to or for Executives benefit are in an amount that would result in any portion of such Total Payments being subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Code (the ), then, if such repayment would result in (i) no portion of the remaining Total Payments being subject to the Excise Tax and (ii) a dollar-for-dollar reduction in Executives taxable income and wages for purposes of federal, state and local income and employment taxes, the Executive shall have an obligation to pay the Company upon demand an amount equal to the sum of (x) the excess of the Total Payments paid to or for Executives benefit over the Total Payments that could have been paid to or for Executives benefit without any portion of such Total Payments being subject to the Excise Tax; and (y) interest on the amount set forth in clause (x) of this sentence at the rate provided in Section 1274(b)(2)(B) of the Code from the date of Executives receipt of such excess until the date of such payment.
Excise Tax
 
          .  This Agreement, and all of the terms and conditions hereof, shall bind the Company and its successors and assigns and shall bind Executive and Executives heirs, executors and administrators.  Neither this Agreement, nor any of the Companys rights or obligations hereunder, may be assigned or otherwise subject to hypothecation by Executive, and any such attempted assignment or hypothecation shall be null and void.  The Company may
8.
ASSIGNMENT
 
 
12
 
assign the rights and obligations of the Company hereunder, in whole or in part, to any of the Companys Affiliates or parent corporations, or to any other successor or assign in connection with the sale of all or substantially all of the Companys assets or stock or in connection with any merger, acquisition and/or reorganization, provided the assignee assumes the obligations of the Company hereunder.
 
           .
9.
GENERAL
 
        .  Any notices provided hereunder must be in writing and shall be deemed effective upon the earlier of one (1) business day following personal delivery (including personal delivery by telecopy or telex), or the third (3rd) business day after mailing by first class mail to the recipient at the address indicated below:
(a)
Notices
 
:
To the Company
Chief Executive Officer
HCP, Inc.
3760 Kilroy Airport Way, Suite 300
Long Beach, CA 90806
:
To Executive
At the address shown in the Companys personnel records
or to such other address or to the attention of such other person as the recipient party will have specified by prior written notice to the sending party.
 
        .  Any provision of this Agreement which is deemed by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to that jurisdiction and subject to this paragraph be ineffective to the extent of such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability, without affecting in any way the remaining provisions hereof in such jurisdiction or rendering that or any other provisions of this Agreement invalid, illegal, or unenforceable in any other jurisdiction.  If any covenant should be deemed invalid, illegal or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction because its scope is considered excessive, such covenant shall be modified so that the scope of the covenant is reduced only to the minimum extent necessary to render the modified covenant valid, legal and enforceable.
(b)
Severability
 
        .  This document, together with all restrictive covenants in any and all agreements between Executive and the Company or to which Executive is a party constitute the final, complete, and exclusive embodiment of the entire agreement and understanding between the parties related to the subject matter hereof and except as otherwise
(c)
Entire Agreement
 
 
13
 
explicitly set forth in this Agreement, supersedes and preempts any prior or contemporaneous understandings, agreements, or representations by or between the parties, written or oral.
 
        .  This Agreement may be executed on separate counterparts, any one (1) of which need not contain signatures of more than one (1) party, but all of which taken together will constitute one and the same agreement.  Signatures delivered by facsimile or pdf shall be effective for all purposes.
(d)
Counterparts
 
        .  No amendments or other modifications to this Agreement may be made except by a writing signed by all parties.  No amendment or waiver of this Agreement requires the consent of any individual, partnership, corporation or other entity not a party to this Agreement.  Nothing in this Agreement, express or implied, is intended to confer upon any third person any rights or remedies under or by reason of this Agreement.
(e)
Amendments
 
        .  All questions concerning the construction, validity and interpretation of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California without giving effect to principles of conflicts of law of such state.
(f)
Choice of Law
 
        .  The provisions of this Agreement necessary to carry out the intention of the parties as expressed herein shall survive the termination or expiration of this Agreement.
(g)
Survivorship
 
        .  The waiver by either party of the other partys prompt and complete performance, or breach or violation, of any provision of this Agreement shall not operate nor be construed as a waiver of any subsequent breach or violation, and the failure by any party hereto to exercise any right or remedy which it may possess hereunder shall not operate nor be construed as a bar to the exercise of such right or remedy by such party upon the occurrence of any subsequent breach or violation.  No waiver shall be deemed to have occurred unless set forth in a writing executed by or on behalf of the waiving party.  No such written waiver shall be deemed a continuing waiver unless specifically stated therein, and each such waiver shall operate only as to the specific term or condition waived and shall not constitute a waiver of such term or condition for the future or as to any act other than that specifically waived.
(h)
Waiver
 
         .  The subject heading of this Agreement are for convenience and reference only and in no way define, describe, extend or limit the scope or intent of this Agreement or the intent of any provision hereof.
(i)
Headings
 
         .  The parties acknowledge that this Agreement is the result of arms-length negotiations between sophisticated parties, each afforded representation by legal counsel.  Each and every provision of this Agreement shall be construed as though both parties
(j)
Construction
 
 
14
 
participated equally in the drafting of the same, and any rule of construction that a document shall be construed against the drafting party shall not be applicable to this Agreement.
 
        .
10.
ARBITRATION
 
        If any legally actionable dispute arises which cannot be resolved by mutual discussion between the parties, each of Executive and the Company agree to resolve that dispute by arbitration before an arbitrator experienced in employment law.  Said arbitration will be conducted pursuant to the JAMS Employment Arbitration Rules and Procedures and applicable California law.  The parties agree that this arbitration agreement includes any such disputes that the Company and its related entities may have against Executive, or Executive may have against the Company and/or its related entities and/or employees, arising out of or relating to Executives employment or its termination including any claims of discrimination or harassment in violation of applicable law and any other aspect of Executives compensation, training, employment, or its termination.
(a)
 
        The parties further agree that this arbitration provision is the exclusive and binding remedy for any such dispute and will be used instead of any court action, which is hereby expressly waived, except for any request by either party for temporary or preliminary injunctive relief pending arbitration in accordance with applicable law or an administrative claim with an administrative agency.  THE PARTIES HEREBY WAIVE ANY RIGHTS THEY MAY HAVE TO TRIAL BY JUDGE OR JURY.
(b)
 
        The parties agree that the arbitration shall be conducted in Los Angeles County, California, unless otherwise mutually agreed.
(c)
 
        The provisions of Section 1281.8 of the California Code of Civil Procedure with respect to provisional remedies will apply to any such arbitration.  In any such arbitration proceeding, any hearing must be transcribed by a certified court reporter and the arbitrator's decision must be set forth in writing, consistent with the law of California and supported by essential findings of fact and conclusion of law.  The arbitrator may issue any remedy or award available under applicable law but may not add to, modify, change or disregard any lawful terms of this Agreement or issue an award or remedy that is contrary to the law of California.  The parties further agree that each party shall pay its own costs and attorneys fees, if any; provided, however, the Company shall pay any costs and expenses that Employee would not otherwise have incurred if the dispute had been adjudicated in a court of law, rather than through arbitration, including the arbitrators fee, any administrative fee, and any filing fee in excess of the maximum court filing fee in the jurisdiction in which the arbitration is commenced.  If either party prevails on a statutory claim that affords the prevailing party an award of attorneys fees,
(d)
 
 
15
 
then the arbitrator may award reasonable attorneys fees to the prevailing party, consistent with applicable law.
 
        .  Each party represents and warrants that (a) such party is not subject to any contract, arrangement, agreement, policy or understanding, or to any statute, governmental rule or regulation, that in any way limits such partys ability to enter into and fully perform such partys obligations under this Agreement; (b) such party is not otherwise unable to enter into and fully perform such partys obligations under this Agreement; and (c) upon the execution and delivery of this Agreement by both parties, this Agreement shall be such partys valid and binding obligation, enforceable against such party in accordance with its terms, except to the extent that enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors rights generally.
11.
REPRESENTATIONS
 
        .  In the event of any inconsistency between any provision of this Agreement and any provision of any other Company arrangement, the provisions of this Agreement shall control to the extent more favorable to Executive unless Executive otherwise agrees in a writing that expressly refers to the provision of this Agreement whose control he is waiving.
12.
INCONSISTENCIES
 
        .  Executive shall be entitled, to the extent permitted under applicable law, to select and change a beneficiary or beneficiaries to receive any compensation or benefit hereunder following Executives death by giving written notice thereof.  In the event of Executives death or a judicial determination of his incompetence, references in this Agreement to Executive shall be deemed, where appropriate, to refer to his beneficiary, estate or other legal representative.
13.
BENEFICIARIES/REFERENCES
 
 
 
16
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF AND INTENDING TO BE LEGALLY BOUND THEREBY, the parties hereto have executed and delivered this Agreement as of the year and date first above written.
 
THIS AGREEMENT CONTAINS AN ARBITRATION PROVISION WHEREBY EACH PARTY AGREED TO SUBMIT DISPUTES TO BINDING ARBITRATION.
 
 
 
17
 
 
 
 
EXECUTIVE MUST SIGN THIS AGREEMENT
ON OR AFTER HIS LAST DAY OF EMPLOYMENT
 
This Release of Claims (this ) is entered into by and between HCP, Inc. (the ), and James W. Mercer () (together, the ) on the below-indicated date.
Agreement
Company
Executive
Parties
 
, Executive and the Company entered into an Employment Agreement dated as of May 31, 2011 (the ), that provides Executive certain severance and other benefits in the event of certain terminations of Executives employment;
WHEREAS
Employment Agreement
 
, Executives employment has so terminated; and
WHEREAS
 
, pursuant to Sections 5(b) of the Employment Agreement, a condition precedent to Executives entitlement to certain severance and other benefits thereunder is his agreement to this Agreement.
WHEREAS
 
, in consideration of the severance and other benefits provided under the Employment Agreement, the sufficiency of which Executive hereby acknowledges, Executive agrees as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing in this Agreement shall release or waive any rights or claims Executive may have: (i) for indemnification under any written indemnification agreement by and between Executive and the Company and/or under applicable law or the Companys charter or bylaws; (ii) under any applicable insurance coverage(s) (including but not limited to directors and officers liability insurance coverage); or (iii) to entitlements, payments and benefits due under Section 5 of the Employment Agreement and with respect to any accrued and vested benefits under any tax-qualified retirement plans.
 
This release does not prevent Executive from filing a charge with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (or similar state or local agency) or participating in any investigation conducted by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (or similar state or local agency); , , that Executive understands and agrees that his has knowingly relinquished, waived and forever released any and all rights to any personal recovery in any action or proceeding that may be commenced on his behalf arising out of or related to claims or causes of action released herein, including, without limitation, claims for backpay, front pay, liquidated
provided
however
 
 
 
 
damages, compensatory damages, general damages, special damages, punitive damages, exemplary damages, costs, expenses and attorneys fees.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 1542:  A general release does not extend to any claims which the creditor does not know or suspect to exist in his or her favor at the time of executing the release, which if known by him or her must have materially affected his or her settlement with the debtor.
 
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Executive knowingly and voluntarily executed this Agreement as of the below-written date
 
 
JAMES W. MERCER

 
Exhibit 10.2
THIS SEPARATION, CONSULTING AND GENERAL RELEASE AGREEMENT (the Agreement) is entered into as of the first date on the signature page hereto, by and between HCP, Inc. (the Company) and J. Alberto Gonzalez-Pita (Executive) (together, the Parties).
 
WHEREAS, Executive is employed by the Company as its Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary, and
 
WHEREAS, Executive desires to leave his employment with the Company to pursue other business and legal interests and therefore, the Parties wish to make arrangements to terminate their employment relationship and resolve, fully and finally, all outstanding matters between them.
 
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements set forth hereinafter, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the Parties, intending to be legally bound, hereby agree as follows:
 
1.         . Executives separation from the Company shall be effective June 30, 2011 (the Separation Date). Executive hereby agrees that he will resign from his employment as an officer of the Company and any other position he may hold with the Company as of the Separation Date, and Executive agrees that he will execute any and all documents necessary to effect such resignations.  Upon the Separation Date, Executive shall return to the Company all files, records, credit cards, keys, equipment, and all other Company property or documents maintained by Executive for the Companys use or benefit.  From the date of this Agreement through the Separation Date, Executive will remain employed by the Company as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary at his current base salary rate, with continued participation in all applicable employee benefit plans, except equity plans, and subject to the eligibility requirements, terms and conditions of each plan or program then in effectAny Company stock options, restricted stock or other equity or equity-related compensation previously granted to Executive that are not vested as of the Separation Date will be cancelled and Executive shall have no further right, title or interest in or under such awards.
EXECUTIVES SEPARATION
.  
 
2.         .  In consideration of Executives representations, releases, waivers and promises set forth in this Agreement, the Company agrees that, conditioned upon the timely execution (and non-revocation) of this Agreement, for the period commencing on the Separation Date and ending on the date that is six (6) months following the Separation Date (the Consulting Term), Executive shall provide consulting services to the Company on the following terms and conditions:
CONSULTING SERVICES
 
 
 
 
a.          Executive will be reasonably available to consult with the Company on an as-needed basis on matters familiar to him as a result of his prior work with the Company.
b.          The Company will pay Executive a consulting fee of $50,000 per month, payable in semi-monthly installments during such Consulting Term, and Executive shall be solely responsible for all taxes owed on such payments.  If Executive believes that any payment owed under this paragraph has not been properly paid to him, he shall advise the Companys Chief Executive Officer in writing, and the Company shall have fifteen (15) days to correct any mistaken or inadvertent non-payment.
c.          At the end of the Consulting Term, if Executive has satisfactorily performed the consulting services and abided by all terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, the Company shall pay him a bonus in the amount of $115,000; conditioned upon Executives execution and non-revocation of a supplemental waiver and general release of claims in a form provided by the Company which shall not include terms that exceed the terms of this Agreement.
d.          Executive agrees that, during the Consulting Term, he is retained solely as an independent contractor to the Company. Executive agrees that he is not, and will not claim or represent himself to be, an employee or agent of the Company, that he has no authority to enter into any contracts or agreements on behalf of the Company or to otherwise bind the Company in any manner, and that he will not represent to any person or entity that he has any such authority
3.          . In further consideration of the terms, representations, waivers and releases in this Agreement, the Company will provide Executive with the following additional payments and benefits:
ADDITIONAL CONSIDERATION
a.          Severance payments in the amount of $125,000 per month, minus all applicable tax withholdings and other authorized deductions, for a period of twelve (12) months following the Separation Date, payable in semi-monthly installments on the Companys regular payroll schedule and commencing on the first regularly scheduled payroll date following both the Separation Date and the Effective Date (as defined in Section 3d. below);
 
b.          A lump sum payment in the amount of $50,000, less all applicable tax withholdings and other authorized deductions, payable on the first regularly scheduled payroll date following both the Separation Date and the Effective Date, to reimburse Executive for the estimated premiums for twenty-four (24) months of COBRA continuation coverage for himself and his eligible dependents pursuant to Section 4980B of the Internal Revenue Code or the applicable state equivalent (COBRA).  It shall be Executives sole responsibility to timely elect COBRA coverage and make the required premium payments; and
c.          A cash lump sum amount equal to that portion of Executives account under the Companys 401(k) plan (including, without limitation, any 401(k)
 
2
 
matching contributions), if any, that has not become vested under the terms of such plan as of the Separation Date, payable on the first regularly scheduled payroll date following both the Separation Date and the Effective Date.
d.          For purposes of this Agreement, the  shall be the eighth (8) calendar day following the date that Executive signs and returns this Agreement to the Company, provided that Executive does not revoke or attempt to revoke his acceptance of this Agreement prior to such date.  Executive shall have the period of twenty-one (21) calendar days from the date he receives this Agreement to sign it and return it to the Company.
Effective Date
th
Executive acknowledges and agrees that under the terms of this Agreement he is receiving consideration beyond that which he would otherwise be entitled to and which, but for the mutual covenants set forth in this Agreement, the Company would not otherwise be obligated to provide.  Executive further agrees that the payments and benefits provided hereunder are in addition to any wages and accrued but unused vacation earned through the Separation Date.
4.          .
MUTUAL RELEASE AND WAIVER
 
a.          .
Executives Release
 
(i)           In exchange for the consideration described in Sections 2 and 3 above and other terms, representations, waivers and releases in this Agreement, Executive hereby forever releases and discharges the Company and its parents, affiliates, successors, and assigns, as well as each of its past and present officers, directors, employees, agents, attorneys, and shareholders (collectively, the Company Released Parties), from any and all claims, charges, complaints, liens, demands, causes of action, obligations, damages, and liabilities, , , that Executive had, now has, or may hereafter claim to have against the Company Released Parties arising out of or relating in any way to Executives employment with, or resignation from, the Company, or otherwise relating to any of the Company Released Parties from the beginning of time to the Effective Date (the Executives Release).  Executives Release specifically extends to, without limitation, any and all claims or causes of action for wrongful termination, breach of an express or implied contract, breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing, breach of fiduciary duty, fraud, misrepresentation, defamation, slander, infliction of emotional distress, disability, loss of future earnings, and any claims under any applicable state, federal, or local statutes and regulations, including, but not limited to, the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, the Equal Pay Act of 1963, as amended, the Fair Labor Standards Act, as amended, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, as amended (the ADA), the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, as amended (ADEA), as amended, the Older Workers Benefit Protection Act, as amended, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA), the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act, as amended (the WARN Act), Section 806 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Family and Medical Leave Act, as amended, and the
known or unknown
suspected or unsuspected
 
 
3
 
California Family Rights Act, as amended, the California Fair Employment and Housing Act, as amended and California Labor Code Section 1400 .; , , that this Release does not waive, release or otherwise discharge any claim or cause of action that cannot legally be waived, including, but not limited to, any claim for unpaid wages, workers compensation benefits, unemployment benefits and any claims for indemnification under applicable law.
et seq
provided
however
 
(ii)           For the purpose of implementing a full and complete release, Executive understands and agrees that this Agreement is intended to include all claims, if any, which Executive may have and which Executive to exist in his favor against the Company Released Parties and this Agreement extinguishes those claims.  Accordingly, Executive expressly waives all rights afforded by Section 1542 of the Civil Code of the State of California (Section 1542) and any similar statute or regulation in any other applicable jurisdiction.  Section 1542 states as follows:
does not now know or suspect
 
A GENERAL RELEASE DOES NOT EXTEND TO CLAIMS WHICH THE CREDITOR DOES NOT KNOW OR SUSPECT TO EXIST IN HIS OR HER FAVOR AT THE TIME OF EXECUTING THE RELEASE, WHICH IF KNOWN BY HIM OR HER MUST HAVE MATERIALLY AFFECTED HIS OR HER SETTLEMENT WITH THE DEBTOR.
 
 (iii)         This Agreement shall not prevent Executive from filing a charge with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (or similar state or local agency) or participating in any investigation conducted by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (or similar state or local agency); , , that Executive acknowledges and agrees that any claims by Executive for personal relief in connection with such a charge or investigation (such as reinstatement or monetary damages) hereby are barred.
provided
however
 
b.          .
The Companys Release
 
           
(i)
The Company hereby forever releases and discharges Executive, his heirs, successors, and assigns, from any and all claims, charges, complaints, liens, demands, causes of action, obligations, damages, and liabilities,
known or unknown
,
suspected or unsuspected
, that the Company had, now has, or may hereafter claim to have against Executive (the Companys Release).  The Companys Release specifically extends to, without limitation, any and all claims or causes of action under common law as well as any claims under any applicable state, federal, or local statutes and regulations;
provided
,
however
, that the Companys Release does not waive, release, or otherwise discharge any claim or cause of action to enforce any rights the Company may have with respect to the confidentiality of Company information, the assignment of inventions or the solicitation of the Companys customers, clients or employees or
any claim or cause of action that cannot legally be waived.
 
(ii)
     
For the purpose of implementing a full and complete release, the Company understands and agrees that this Agreement is intended to include
 
 
4
 
all claims, if any, which the Company may have and which the Company to exist in its favor against Executive and this Agreement extinguishes those claims.  Accordingly, the Company expressly waives all rights afforded by Section 1542 of the Civil Code of the State of California (Section 1542) and any similar statute or regulation in any other applicable jurisdiction.  Section 1542 states as follows:
does not now know or suspect
 
A GENERAL RELEASE DOES NOT EXTEND TO CLAIMS WHICH THE CREDITOR DOES NOT KNOW OR SUSPECT TO EXIST IN HIS OR HER FAVOR AT THE TIME OF EXECUTING THE RELEASE, WHICH IF KNOWN BY HIM OR HER MUST HAVE MATERIALLY AFFECTED HIS OR HER SETTLEMENT WITH THE DEBTOR.
5.          .  Executive understands and agrees that he is waiving his rights under the ADEA and thus:
ADEA WAIVER AND RELEASE
 
a.          Executive has been informed and understands and agrees that he has the period of twenty-one (21) calendar days after receipt of this Agreement to consider whether to sign it.
 
b.          Executive has been informed and understands and agrees that he may revoke this Agreement at any time during the seven (7) calendar days after this Agreement is signed and returned to the Company, in which case none of the provisions of this Agreement will have any effect.  Executive acknowledges and agrees that if he wishes to revoke this Agreement, he must do so in writing, and that such revocation must be signed by Executive and received by the Chief Executive Officer of the Company no later than the seventh (7th) day after Executive has signed the Agreement.  Executive acknowledges and agrees that, in the event Executive revokes the Agreement, he shall have no right to receive any of the consideration described in Sections 2 and 3 above and the other benefits, waiver and release provided under the terms of this Agreement.
 
c.          Executive agrees that to signing this Agreement, he read and understood each and every provision of this Agreement.
prior
 
d.          Executive understands and agrees that he has been advised in this writing to consult with an attorney of his choice concerning the legal consequences of this Agreement and Executive hereby acknowledges that to signing this Agreement, he had the opportunity to consult with an attorney of his choosing regarding the effect of each and every provision of this Agreement.
prior
 
e.          Executive acknowledges and agrees that he knowingly and voluntarily entered into this Agreement with complete understanding of all relevant facts, and that he was neither fraudulently induced nor coerced to enter into this Agreement.
 
f.           Executive understands that he is not waiving, releasing or otherwise discharging any claims under the ADEA that may arise after the date she signs this Agreement.
 
 
5
 
6.          .  This Agreement and the payments provided for hereunder are intended to be exempt from Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code) as a short-term deferral within the meaning of Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1(b)(4)(i).  The parties hereto agree that in the event it is determined that this Agreement or any payment hereunder is subject to and not compliant with Code Section 409A they shall negotiate in good faith to amend the Agreement to the extent possible to avoid the imposition of additional taxes under Section 409A of the Code.
CODE SECTION 409A COMPLIANCE
 
7.          .  Executive and the Company make the following representations, each of which is an important consideration to the other partys willingness to enter into this Agreement:
REPRESENTATIONS
 
a.          Executive acknowledges that the Company is not entering into this Agreement because it believes that Executive has any cognizable legal claim against the Company Released Parties.  If Executive elects not to sign this Agreement, the fact that this Agreement was offered will not be understood as an indication that the Company Released Parties believed Executive was treated unlawfully in any respect.
 
b.          Executive understands and agrees that he has been advised to consult with an attorney of his choice concerning the legal consequences of this Agreement.  Executive hereby acknowledges that prior to signing this Agreement, he had the opportunity to consult with an attorney of his choosing regarding the effect of each and every provision of this Agreement.
 
c.          Executive and the Company, on behalf of himself and itself,  acknowledge and agree that he and it knowingly and voluntarily entered into this Agreement with complete understanding of all relevant facts, and that neither party was fraudulently induced nor coerced to enter into this Agreement.
 
d.          The Parties each represent and warrant to the other that they have the capacity and authority to enter into this Agreement and be bound by its terms.
 
8.          .
CONTINUING OBLIGATIONS AND RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS
 
a.          During the Consulting Term and at all times thereafter to the extent consistent with applicable law, Executive agrees that he will not use or disclose any confidential information, trade secrets, or financial, personnel, proprietary information, or client information which Executive learned while employed by, or providing consulting services to, the Company;
 
b.          Executive agrees that if during the Consulting Term he accepts any consulting or employment relationship with a publicly-traded healthcare REIT that is a direct competitor of the Company, the Consulting Term and all of the benefits and payments to him provided under Section 2 above will automatically end, unless the Company waives this provision in writing.
 
 
6
 
c.          During the Consulting Term, Executive agrees that he will not, directly or indirectly, solicit or encourage any Company employee to leave his or her employment with the Company.
 
9.          .  Executive agrees that he will not, at any time, make, directly or indirectly, any oral or written public statements that are disparaging of the Company, its products or services, and any of its present or former officers, directors or employees.  The Company (limited to its officers and directors) agrees that it will not, at any time, make, directly or indirectly, any oral or written public statements that are disparaging of Executive.
MUTUAL NON-DISPARAGEMENT
 
10.        .  Executive agrees that he will cooperate with the Company, including executing documents and providing requested information, as may reasonably be required to give effect to the provisions of this Agreement or for the Company to comply with applicable securities laws.
COOPERATION
 
11.        .  The Company represents and warrants that the Indemnification Agreement by and between Executive and the Company will remain in full force and effect following the Separation Date, in accordance with its terms. For the period of six (6) years following the Separation Date, Executive shall be covered under the Companys existing or successor directors and officers liability insurance policy.
INDEMNIFICATION
 
12.        .  If Executive fails to comply with or otherwise breaches any of the promises, representations, or releases in this Agreement, the Company may immediately stop any payments or benefits otherwise owing under this Agreement and may seek additional relief or remedy as provided under applicable law, including injunctive relief.
REMEDIES
 
13.        .  This Agreement and all rights, duties, and remedies hereunder shall be governed by and construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the State of California, without reference to its choice of law rules, except as preempted by federal law.
GOVERNING LAW
 
14.        .  Executive agrees that this Agreement will be binding upon, and pass to the benefit of, the successors and assigns of the Company.  Any payments and benefits due to the Executive hereunder shall be payable to his estate or representative in the event of his death or disability.
SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS
 
15.        .  This Agreement may not be amended or modified other than by a written instrument signed by an authorized representative of the Company and Executive.
AMENDMENTS
 
16.        .  The section headings contained herein are for reference purposes only and shall not in any way affect the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.
DESCRIPTIVE HEADINGS
 
 
7
 
17.        .  This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which shall constitute one and the same instrument.  Facsimile and .pdf signatures will suffice as original signatures.
COUNTERPARTS
 
18.        .  All notices hereunder shall be in writing and delivered personally or sent by United States registered or certified mail, postage prepaid and return receipt requested:
NOTICES
 
If to the Company:
HCP, Inc.
3760 Kilroy Airport Way, Suite 300
Long Beach, California 90806
Attention:  Chief Executive Officer
If to Executive:
J. Alberto Gonzalez-Pita
at the most recent address in the payroll records of the Company
19.           .  This Agreement sets forth the entire agreement and understanding of the Parties relating to the subject matter hereof and merges and supersedes all prior discussions, agreements, and understandings of every kind and nature between the Parties hereto, and neither Party shall be bound by any term or condition other than as expressly set forth or provided for in this Agreement.
ENTIRE AGREEMENT
 
(SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS)
 
 
8
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have executed this Agreement as of the first date set forth below.
 
 
9

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
HCP Announces Executive Management Changes
 
LONG BEACH, CA  May 31, 2011  HCP (NYSE: HCP) announced the following changes in its Executive Management Team:
 
, Executive Vice President  Life Science Estates, has been named Executive Vice President  Chief Financial Officer.  Mr. Schoen joined HCP in 2006 following a nine year career in Corporate Finance at Kilroy Realty Corporation where he was responsible for capital markets and financial planning and analysis. His five year tenure at HCP includes leading the execution of HCPs $2.0 billion investment management platform from 20062008 and heading HCPs 7.1 million square foot life science sector from 2008 to present.
Timothy M. Schoen
 
During his HCP career, Mr. Schoen has provided leadership in designing the financial reporting and asset management protocols for HCPs institutional investment partners, had direct profit and loss responsibility for the Companys life science platform and, through HCPs joint venture investments, developed a strong working knowledge of the Companys senior housing, medical office building and hospital property sectors.
 
After conducting an extensive search for a new CFO, it became clear that Tim is ideally suited for the position, said Jay Flaherty, HCPs Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.  Tim has a thorough understanding of HCPs real estate operations and our strategic objectives.  He is a proven leader inside of our Company and is highly regarded by those he interacts with externally.  Tim brings the right combination of integrity, management expertise and practical business experience to help drive our business going forward.
 
, Senior Vice President  Life Science Estates has been promoted to Executive Vice President  Life Science Estates, succeeding Mr. Schoen.  Mr. Bergschneider joined HCP in 2007 as Vice President in conjunction with HCPs $3.0 billion acquisition of Slough Estates (USA).  Previously, Mr. Bergschneider was employed by Slough Estates from 2000 to 2007 during the creation and build-out of that companys life science portfolio.
Jonathan M. Bergschneider
 
Jon has been dedicated to our life science portfolio for 11 years and will assume leadership of that portfolio seamlessly, added Mr. Flaherty.  He has a strong background in leasing, development and acquisitions of life science campuses.  This promotion allows Jon to continue to pursue expanded responsibilities inside HCP.
 
has been named Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary effective July 1, 2011.  Mr. Mercer, most recently Of Counsel at the law firm of Bryan Cave, has enjoyed a successful career focused on a variety of legal disciplines including complex business and commercial litigation matters as well as mergers and acquisitions.  As a member of the senior management team at WebMD and its predecessor companies, Mr. Mercer renegotiated contracts involving 50 major strategic and contractual relationships with key partner companies.
James W. Mercer
 
We are thrilled to have Jim join HCP in his capacity of General Counsel, commented Mr. Flaherty.  Jim has developed a strong working relationship with our senior management team and Board of Directors over the last several years.  We look forward to benefiting from the unique combination of his strong technical skills coupled with his business acumen.
 
Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary has resigned effective June 30, 2011, to pursue other business and legal interests.  Mr. Gonzalez-Pita will provide consulting services until December 31, 2011 to assist with the transition.  We thank Al for his contributions to the Company as a member of the senior management team and wish him the best in his future endeavors, stated Mr. Flaherty.
J. Alberto Gonzalez-Pita,
 
Mr. Flaherty added, We believe these new appointments to HCPs senior management team continue to position the Company for future success.  Furthermore, we believe the internal promotions of Tim and Jon highlight our deep bench and serve as examples of the growth opportunities available to our talented professionals.  We look forward to working together as a team to continue to create value for our shareholders.
 
About HCP
 
HCP, Inc., an S&P 500 company, is a real estate investment trust (REIT) that invests primarily in real estate serving the healthcare industry in the United States.  HCP has been a publicly traded NYSE listed company since 1985.  HCPs portfolio of properties is distributed among distinct sectors of the healthcare industry, including senior housing, life science, medical office, post-acute/skilled nursing and hospital.  For more information, visit HCPs website at .
www.hcpi.com
 
Contact
 
HCP Investor Relations
562-733-5309
 


