FILE:HCP/HCP-8K-20110119085357.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 240.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
        HCP, Inc. ("HCP") is filing this Amendment No. 1 to Current Report on Form 8-K/A (this "Amendment") to amend and replace Exhibit 99.1 of its Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 14, 2010 (the "Original Form 8-K") with Exhibit 99.1 filed herewith to update HCP's unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements relating to the proposed "HCR ManorCare Facilities Acquisition" and "HCP Ventures II Purchase" (each as defined in the Original Form 8-K) for the offering of 46 million shares of HCP's common stock in December 2010, a portion of the net proceeds of which was used to fund the HCP Ventures II Purchase, and the remainder of which will be used to fund a portion of the HCR ManorCare Facilities Acquisition, and the proposed issuance and sale of senior notes by HCP, the net proceeds of which will be used to fund a portion of the HCR ManorCare Facilities Acquisition.
        The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 should be read in conjunction with the Original Form 8-K and this Amendment.
Item 9.01    Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
Exhibits. The following exhibit is being filed herewith:
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: January 19, 2011
QuickLinks
Explanatory Note
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
SIGNATURE
EXHIBIT INDEX

QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
Exhibit 99.1
        The accompanying unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements presented below have been prepared based on certain pro forma adjustments to the historical consolidated financial statements of HCP, HCR ManorCare PropCo LLC ("HCR ManorCare PropCo") and HCP Ventures II as of and for the nine months ended September 30, 2010 and for the year ended December 31, 2009. The historical consolidated financial statements of HCP are contained in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, as updated by its Current Report on Form 8-K as filed with the SEC on November 2, 2010, and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2010. The historical consolidated financial statements of HCR ManorCare PropCo are included as Exhibits 99.2 and 99.3 to the Current Report on Form 8-K as filed with the SEC on December 14, 2010.
        The accompanying unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements give effect to the proposed acquisition by HCP of all of the equity interest in HCR ManorCare PropCo (the "HCR ManorCare Facilities Acquisition") and the purchase of the remaining 65 percent interest in HCP Ventures II (the "HCP Ventures II Purchase") (collectively, the "Acquisitions"). The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated balance sheet as of September 30, 2010 has been prepared as if the Acquisitions had occurred as of that date. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statements of operations for the year ended December 31, 2009 and for the nine months ended September 30, 2010 have been prepared as if the Acquisitions had occurred as of January 1, 2009. Such statements also reflect the incurrence of debt and give effect to certain capital transactions undertaken by HCP in order to finance the Acquisitions.
        The allocation of the purchase price of HCR ManorCare PropCo and HCP Ventures II reflected in these unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements has been based upon preliminary estimates of the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed. A final determination of the fair values of HCR ManorCare PropCo's and HCP Ventures II's assets and liabilities will be based on the actual valuation of the tangible and intangible assets and liabilities of HCR ManorCare PropCo and HCP Ventures II that exist as of the date of completion of the transactions. Consequently, amounts preliminarily allocated to identifiable tangible and intangible assets and liabilities could change significantly from those used in the pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements presented below and could result in a material change in amortization of tangible and intangible assets and liabilities.
        In the opinion of HCP's management, the pro forma financial statements include all significant necessary adjustments that can be factually supported to reflect the effects of the Acquisitions. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements are provided for informational purposes only. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements are not necessarily and should not be assumed to be an indication of the results that would have been achieved had the transactions been completed as of the dates indicated or that may be achieved in the future. The completion of the valuation, the allocation of the purchase price, the impact of ongoing integration activities, the timing of completion of the transactions and other changes in HCR ManorCare PropCo and HCP Ventures II tangible and intangible assets and liabilities that occur prior to completion of the transactions could cause material differences in the information presented. Furthermore, following consummation of the transactions, HCP expects to apply its own methodologies and judgments in accounting for the assets and liabilities acquired in the transaction, which may differ from those reflected in HCR ManorCare PropCo's and HCP Ventures II's historical financial statements and the pro forma financial statements.
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the respective historical financial statements and the notes thereto of HCP and HCR ManorCare PropCo for the year ended December 31, 2009 and as of and for the nine months ended September 30, 2010 that are incorporated herein by reference.
(A)
The historical financial statements of HCR ManorCare PropCo and HCP Ventures II for the year ended December 31, 2009 and as of and for the nine months ended September 30, 2010 have been presented based on the financial statement classification utilized by HCP.
(B)
On December 13, 2010, HCP signed a definitive agreement to acquire HCR ManorCare PropCo, a wholly-owned subsidiary of HCR ManorCare, for a total purchase price of approximately $6.1 billion, comprised of approximately $852 million of our common stock (See Note J), $3.5 billion in cash (adjusted for working capital), and the $1.6 billion settlement of HCP's loan investments in HCR ManorCare PropCo's debt at its estimated fair value. Under the terms of the purchase agreement, HCP can elect to fund all or a portion of the stock portion of the consideration with cash. After the HCR ManorCare Facilities Acquisition, HCR ManorCare will lease the Facilities acquired from HCR ManorCare PropCo back from HCP pursuant to a long-term master lease. All obligations under the lease will be guaranteed by HCR ManorCare.
The calculation of the HCR ManorCare Facilities Acquisition total purchase price follows (in thousands):
(1)
Represents estimated fees and costs that will be expensed. These charges are directly attributable to the transaction and represent non-recurring costs; therefore, the anticipated impact on the results of operations was excluded from the pro forma condensed consolidated statements of operations.
Adjustment to the total members' deficit represents the elimination of such historical deficit balance of HCR ManorCare PropCo.
(C)
Adjustment has been made to reflect HCR ManorCare PropCo's existing direct financing lease ("DFL") assets at their estimated fair value.
(D)
HCP's historical investments in loan receivables from HCR ManorCare PropCo will be settled at the closing of the HCR ManorCare Facilities Acquisition resulting in an estimated gain on settlement of $44.9 million, which represents the loan receivables' estimated fair value in excess of their carrying value. This gain is directly attributable to the transaction and represents a non-recurring credit; therefore, the anticipated impact on HCP's results of operations was excluded from the pro forma condensed consolidated statements of operations.
(E)
Recognition of intangible assets associated with the acquired in-place ground leases that have favorable market rental rates.
(F)
Adjustments to HCR ManorCare PropCo's historical balance of other assets follow (in thousands):
(G)
HCP expects to fund $2.6 billion of the cash consideration and other associated costs of the HCR ManorCare Facilities Acquisition primarily with short-term financing and the issuance of senior notes. HCP has obtained a 364-day bridge loan (from funding to maturity) of up to $3.3 billion. Although HCP intends to issue debt securities in lieu of some or all borrowings under this bridge loan, for purposes of these unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements we have assumed a drawn down of $950 million at the closing of the HCR ManorCare Facilities Acquisition. In addition, we have assumed the issuance of $1.5 billion of senior unsecured notes with a term of three to ten years. Any draw downs under the bridge loan are expected to be repaid after the HCR ManorCare Facilities Acquisition with proceeds from the issuance of additional senior notes with terms of three to ten years. Additionally, HCP's $425 million secured debt collateralized by the participation investment in HCR ManorCare PropCo's mortgage debt was repaid in full in December 2010. All of HCR ManorCare PropCo's long-term debt, including our aggregate investments in HCR ManorCare PropCo debt with an aggregate face amount of $1.72 billion, is assumed to be settled or repaid at closing.
(H)
Adjustments to HCR ManorCare PropCo's historical balance of other liabilities follow (in thousands):
At closing of the HCR ManorCare Facilities Acquisition, HCP will not be responsible for HCR ManorCare PropCo's recorded amounts of the deferred tax obligations; accordingly, such deferred tax obligations amounts were eliminated.
(I)
Adjustments represent the issuance of 46 million shares of HCP common stock in the December 2010 equity offering and the application of the estimated proceeds therefrom of approximately
$1.4 billion to fund a portion of the cash consideration and other associated costs of the Acquisitions. HCP used $137 million to fund the HCP Ventures II Purchase with the remaining balance of approximately $1.3 billion to be used to partially fund the HCR ManorCare Facilities Acquisition. The shares of HCP common stock issued in connection with the December 2010 equity offering are valued as follows (in thousands, except share and per share data):
(1)
Based on the public offering price of HCP's common stock in the December 2010 equity offering.
The total value of the shares of HCP common stock issued is presented as follows:
(J)
Adjustments represent the issuance of HCP common stock directly to the seller of HCR ManorCare PropCo, which is assumed to fund the equity consideration of the HCR ManorCare Facilities Acquisition. The shares of HCP common stock issued are valued as follows (in thousands, except share and per share data):
(1)
Based on the average of last reported sale prices of HCP's common stock for the 10 days before the day the definitive agreement was signed for the HCR ManorCare Facilities Acquisition.
The total value of the shares of HCP common stock issued is presented as follows:
(K)
Adjustments to income from DFLs follow (in thousands):
(L)
Represents the elimination of interest earned on HCR ManorCare PropCo debt held as loan investments by HCP that will be settled at closing.
(M)
Adjustments to interest expense follow (in thousands):
The pro forma increase in interest expense as a result of the assumed issuance of new debt in the HCR ManorCare Facilities Acquisition is calculated using market rates management believes would have been available to HCP for the borrowings assumed to have been issued as of December 13, 2010 (the date that the definitive agreement was executed to acquire HCR ManorCare PropCo). Each / of 1% increase in the annual interest assumed with respect to the debt would increase pro forma interest expense by $3.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 and $2.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2010.
1
8
(N)
Adjustments to operating expenses follow (in thousands):
For intangible assets associated with the value of in-place ground leases, a weighted-average remaining lease term of approximately 88 years was used to compute amortization expense. The
Company computes amortization using the straight-line method over the remaining lease term of the related lease.
(O)
At the closing of the Acquisition, 100% of the real estate of HCR ManorCare PropCo will be acquired by a REIT subsidiary of HCP; accordingly, assuming the HCR ManorCare Facilities Acquisition was effective January 1, 2009, substantially all of the amounts of the income tax expense would then be eliminated.
(P)
On January 14, 2011, HCP purchased its partner's 65 percent interest in HCP Ventures II, which owns 25 senior housing facilities, resulting in HCP becoming the sole owner of the portfolio. The assets were acquired on October 5, 2006, through HCP's acquisition of CNL Retirement Properties, Inc., and were contributed to HCP Ventures II in January 2007. HCP owned a 35 percent noncontrolling interest in HCP Ventures II that was accounted under the equity method as an unconsolidated joint venture at September 30, 2010. In exchange for its partner's interest and the assumption of approximately $652 million of mortgage debt secured by the assets, HCP paid approximately $137 million in cash for the transaction.
The calculation of the HCP Ventures II Purchase consideration and total purchase price follows (in thousands):
(1)
Represents estimated fees and costs that will be expensed. These charges are directly attributable to the transaction and represent non-recurring costs; therefore, the anticipated impact on the results of operations was excluded from the pro forma condensed consolidated statement of operations.
Adjustment to the total members' equity represents the elimination of such historical equity balance of HCP Ventures II.
(Q)
HCP Ventures II's real estate assets have been adjusted to their preliminary estimated fair values as of September 30, 2010 and the related historical accumulated depreciation and amortization balances are eliminated when real estate assets are recorded at fair value.
(R)
Adjustments to eliminate HCP's historical 35 percent interest in HCP Ventures II follow (in thousands):
The consolidation of HCP Ventures II results in an estimated gain of $7.7 million, which represents the estimated fair value of HCP's 35 percent noncontrolling interest in HCP Ventures II that is in excess of its carrying value at September 30, 2010. This gain is directly attributable to the transaction and represents a non-recurring credit; therefore, the impact on the results of operations was excluded from the pro forma consolidated statements of operations.
(S)
Adjustments to intangible assets follow (in thousands):
In-place lease intangible assets acquired include amounts for in-place lease values that are based on HCP's evaluation of the specific characteristics of each tenant's lease. Factors to be considered include estimates of carrying costs during hypothetical expected lease-up periods, market conditions, and costs to execute similar leases. In estimating carrying costs, HCP includes estimates of lost rentals at market rates during the expected lease-up periods, depending on local market conditions. In estimating costs to execute similar leases, HCP considers leasing commissions, legal and other related costs.
(T)
Adjustments to HCP Ventures II's historical balance of other assets follow (in thousands):
(U)
Adjustment to eliminate HCP Ventures II's historical discount on mortgage debt.
(V)
Adjustment eliminates HCP Ventures II's historical balance of intangible liabilities associated with acquired in-place leases that have below-market rental rates.
(W)
Adjustments to rental and related revenues follow (in thousands):
(X)
Adjustments to eliminate management fees follow (in thousands):
(Y)
Adjustments to depreciation and amortization expense follow (in thousands):
An estimated useful life of 30 years was assumed to compute real estate depreciation. For assets and liabilities associated with the value of in-place leases, a weighted-average remaining lease term of approximately 8.5 years was used to compute amortization expense. The Company computes depreciation and amortization using the straight-line method over the properties estimated useful lives or the remaining lease term of the related intangible.
(Z)
Adjustments to interest expense follow (in thousands):
(AA)
Adjustment eliminates HCP Ventures II's historical impairment of its straight-line rent assets. In October 2010, HCP Ventures II determined that the collectability of the straight-line rents was not reasonably assured and as a result established an allowance to fully impair the carrying value of its straight-line rent assets effective July 1, 2010. Further, HCP Ventures II limited its recognition of rental revenues to amounts collected from the related tenant. Assuming the HCP Ventures II Purchase occurred on January 1, 2009, no value would be attributed to straight-line asset in purchase accounting; therefore, no impairment of straight-line rent assets would have occurred.
(BB)
Represents the elimination of HCP's historical equity income from and related impairment of its 35 percent interest in HCP Ventures II, which resulted from the pro forma consolidation of HCP Ventures II assumed on January 1, 2009.
(CC)
The calculations of basic and diluted earnings from continuing operations attributable to common stock per share follow (in thousands, except per share data):
(DD)
The pro forma weighted-average shares outstanding are the historical weighted-average shares of HCP for the periods presented, adjusted for the assumed issuance of 71.7 million shares of HCP common stock on a weighted-average basis for the year ended December 31, 2009, and the nine months ended September 30, 2010.
QuickLinks
Exhibit 99.1
UNAUDITED PRO FORMA CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 2010 AND FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2009 AND THE NINE MONTHS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2010
UNAUDITED PRO FORMA CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
HCP, INC. NOTES TO UNAUDITED PRO FORMA CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


