FILE:HCP/HCP-8K-20110322065720.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 8.01    Other Events.
        As reported on its current report on Form 8-K filed on December 13, 2010, HCP, Inc. ("HCP") signed a definitive purchase agreement, dated as of December 13, 2010, to acquire all of the outstanding interests in HCR Properties, LLC ("HCR ManorCare PropCo"), which owns all of the post-acute, skilled nursing and associated living faciliities of HCR ManorCare, Inc. (with respect to the acquisition, the "HCR ManorCare Facilities Acquisition"). Also, on January 14, 2010, HCP acquired the remaining 65% interest in HCP Ventures II, a joint venture that owns 25 senior housing facilities (the "HCP Ventures II Purchase"), resulting in HCP becoming the sole owner of the joint venture.
        HCP is filing this current report on Form 8-K to provide certain financial information with respect to the proposed HCR ManorCare Facilities Acquisition and HCP Ventures II Purchase. Specifically, this current report on Form 8-K provides: (1) HCP's unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2010 relating to the proposed HCR ManorCare Facilities Acquisition and HCP Ventures II Purchase, attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1; and (2) HCR ManorCare PropCo's audited financial statements as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 and the three years in the periods ended December 31, 2010, attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2. The information in Exhibit 99.2 was provided by HCR ManorCare, Inc. The information in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01    Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
Exhibits. The following exhibits are being filed herewith:
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: March 22, 2011
QuickLinks
Item 8.01 Other Events.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
SIGNATURES
EXHIBIT INDEX

QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
Exhibit 23.1
        We consent to the reference to our firm under the caption "Experts" and to the incorporation by reference in the following Registration Statements of HCP, Inc. and in the related Prospectus and Prospectus Supplements of our report dated February 1, 2011, with respect to the consolidated financial statements of HCR Properties, LLC, as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 and for the three years ended December 31, 2010, included in the Current Report (Form 8-K) dated March 22, 2011:
 - 
Form S-3ARS, File No. 333-161721, related to the unspecified indeterminate shelf registration of common stock, preferred stock, depository shares, debt securities, warrants or other rights, stock purchase contracts and units;
 - 
Form S-8, File No. 333-161720, related to the registration of additional securities related to the 2006 Performance Incentive Plan;
 - 
Form S-8, File No. 333-90353, related to the American Health Properties, Inc. 1994 Stock Incentive Plan, American Health Properties, Inc. Nonqualified Stock Option Plan For Nonemployee Directors, American Health Properties, Inc. 1990 Stock Incentive Plan and American Health Properties, Inc. 1988 Stock Option Plan;
 - 
Form S-8, File No. 333-54784, related to the 2000 Stock Incentive Plan;
 - 
Form S-8, File No. 333-135679, related to the Health Care Property Investors, Inc. 2006 Performance Incentive Plan;
 - 
Form S-3, File No. 333-99067, related to the registration of 738,923 shares of common stock to be issued upon conversion of non-managing member interests in HCPI/Utah II, LLC;
 - 
Form S-3, File No. 333-99063, related to the registration of 160,026 shares of common stock to be issued upon conversion of non-managing member interests in HCPI/Utah, LLC;
 - 
Form S-3, File No. 333-95487, related to the registration of 593,247 shares of common stock to be issued upon conversion of non-managing member interests in HCPI/Utah, LLC;
 - 
Form S-3, File No. 333-122456, related to the registration of 554,890 shares of common stock to be issued upon conversion of non-managing member interests in HCPI/Utah II, LLC;
 - 
Form S-3, File No. 333-119469, related to the registration of 2,129,078 shares of common stock to be issued upon conversion of non-managing member interests in HCPI/Tennessee, LLC;
 - 
Form S-3, File No. 333-124922, related to the registration of 53,602 shares of common stock to be issued upon conversion of non-managing member interests in HCPI/Utah, LLC;
QuickLinks
Exhibit 23.1

QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
Exhibit 99.1
        The accompanying unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements presented below have been prepared based on certain pro forma adjustments to the historical consolidated financial statements of HCP, HCR ManorCare PropCo ("HCR ManorCare PropCo") and HCP Ventures II as of and for the year ended December 31, 2010. The historical financial information of HCP was derived from its consolidated financial statements that are included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010. The historical financial information of HCR ManorCare PropCo was derived from its consolidated financial statements that are included as Exhibits 99.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K.
        The accompanying unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements give effect to the proposed acquisition by HCP of all of the equity interest in HCR ManorCare PropCo (the "HCR ManorCare Facilities Acquisition") and the purchase of the remaining 65 percent interest in HCP Ventures II (the "HCP Ventures II Purchase") (collectively, the "Acquisitions"). The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2010 has been prepared as if the Acquisitions had occurred as of that date. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2010 has been prepared as if the Acquisitions had occurred as of January 1, 2010. Such statements also reflect the incurrence of debt and give effect to certain capital transactions undertaken by HCP in order to finance the Acquisitions.
        The allocation of the purchase price of HCR ManorCare PropCo and HCP Ventures II reflected in these unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements has been based upon preliminary estimates of the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed. A final determination of the fair values of HCR ManorCare PropCo's and HCP Ventures II's assets and liabilities will be based on the actual valuation of the tangible and intangible assets and liabilities of HCR ManorCare PropCo and HCP Ventures II that exist as of the date of completion of the transactions. Consequently, amounts preliminarily allocated to identifiable tangible and intangible assets and liabilities could change significantly from those used in the pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements presented below and could result in a material change in amortization of tangible and intangible assets and liabilities.
        In the opinion of HCP's management, the pro forma financial statements include all significant necessary adjustments that can be factually supported to reflect the effects of the Acquisitions. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements are provided for informational purposes only. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements are not necessarily and should not be assumed to be an indication of the results that would have been achieved had the transactions been completed as of the dates indicated or that may be achieved in the future. The completion of the valuation, the allocation of the purchase price, the impact of ongoing integration activities, the timing of completion of the transactions and other changes in HCR ManorCare PropCo and HCP Ventures II tangible and intangible assets and liabilities that occur prior to completion of the transactions could cause material differences in the information presented. Furthermore, following consummation of the transactions, HCP expects to apply its own methodologies and judgments in accounting for the assets and liabilities acquired in the transaction, which may differ from those reflected in HCR ManorCare PropCo's and HCP Ventures II's historical financial statements and the pro forma financial statements.
        The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the respective historical financial statements and the notes thereto of HCP and HCR ManorCare PropCo as of and for the year ended December 31, 2010 that are incorporated herein by reference.
(A)
The historical financial statements of HCR ManorCare PropCo and HCP Ventures II as of and for the year ended December 31, 2010 have been presented based on the financial statement classification utilized by HCP.
(B)
On December 13, 2010, HCP signed a definitive agreement to acquire HCR ManorCare PropCo, a wholly-owned subsidiary of HCR ManorCare, Inc., for a total purchase price of approximately $6.1 billion, comprised of $3.5 billion in cash (adjusted for working capital), the $1.6 billion settlement of HCP's then current loan investments in HCR ManorCare PropCo's debt at its estimated fair value and approximately $852 million of HCP common stock. Under the terms of the purchase agreement, HCP can elect to fund all or a portion of the stock portion of the consideration with cash (See Note I). After the HCR ManorCare Facilities Acquisition is consummated, a wholly-owned subsidiary of HCR ManorCare, Inc. will continue to operate the assets pursuant to a long-term triple-net master lease supported by a guaranty from HCR ManorCare, Inc.
The calculation of the HCR ManorCare PropCo total purchase price follows (in thousands):
(1)
Represents estimated fees and costs that will be expensed. These charges are directly attributable to the transaction and represent non-recurring costs; therefore, the anticipated impact on the results of operations was excluded from the pro forma condensed consolidated statements of operations.
Adjustment to the total members' deficit represents the elimination of such historical deficit balance of HCR ManorCare PropCo.
(C)
Adjustment has been made to reflect HCR ManorCare PropCo's existing direct financing lease ("DFL") assets at their estimated fair value.
(D)
HCP's historical investments in loan receivables from HCR ManorCare PropCo will be settled at the closing of the HCR ManorCare Facilities Acquisition resulting in an estimated gain on
settlement of $22.3 million, which represents the loan receivables' estimated fair value in excess of their carrying value. This gain is directly attributable to the transaction and represents a non-recurring credit; therefore, the anticipated impact on HCP's results of operations was excluded from the pro forma condensed consolidated statements of operations.
(E)
HCP expects to fund $3.3 billion of the cash consideration and other associated costs of the HCR ManorCare Facilities Acquisition primarily with cash on hand, short-term financing and the issuance of senior notes. In January 2011, HCP issued an aggregate $2.4 billion of senior unsecured notes, including $400 million aggregate principal amount of 2.700% senior notes due 2014, $500 million aggregate principal amount of 3.750% senior notes due 2016, $1.2 billion aggregate principal amount of 5.375% senior notes due 2021, and $300 million aggregate principal amount of 6.750% senior notes due 2041. All of HCR ManorCare PropCo's long-term debt, including HCP's aggregate investments in HCR ManorCare PropCo debt with an aggregate face amount of $1.72 billion, is assumed to be settled or repaid at closing.
(F)
Recognition of intangible assets associated with the acquired in-place ground leases that have favorable market rental rates.
(G)
Adjustments to HCR ManorCare PropCo's historical balance of other assets follow (in thousands):
(H)
Adjustments to HCR ManorCare PropCo's historical balance of other liabilities follow (in thousands):
(I)
Adjustments represent an assumed issuance of 24 million shares of HCP common stock, which estimated net proceeds of approximately $874 million will be used to finance part of the aggregate purchase price of the HCR ManorCare Facilities Acquisition in lieu of issuing 25.7 million shares of HCP common stock directly to the seller of HCR ManorCare PropCo. The shares of HCP
common stock issued in connection with this assumed offering are valued as follows (in thousands, except share and per share data):
(1)
Based on the last reported sale price of HCP's common stock on the NYSE on March 21, 2011.
        The total value of the shares of HCP common stock issued is presented as follows:
(J)
Adjustments to income from DFLs follow (in thousands):
(K)
Represents the elimination of interest earned on HCR ManorCare PropCo debt held as loan investments by HCP that will be settled at closing.
(L)
Adjustments to interest expense follow (in thousands):
(M)
Adjustments to operating expenses follow (in thousands):
For intangible assets associated with the value of in-place ground leases, a weighted-average remaining lease term of approximately 88 years was used to compute amortization expense. HCP computes amortization using the straight-line method over the remaining lease term of the related lease.
(N)
At the closing of the HCR ManorCare Facilities Acquisition, 100% of the real estate of HCR ManorCare PropCo will be acquired by a REIT subsidiary of HCP; accordingly, assuming this acquisition was effective January 1, 2010, substantially all of the amounts of the income tax expense would then be eliminated.
(O)
On January 14, 2011, HCP purchased its partner's 65 percent interest in HCP Ventures II, which owned 25 senior housing facilities, resulting in HCP becoming the sole owner of the portfolio. The assets were acquired on October 5, 2006, through HCP's acquisition of CNL Retirement Properties, Inc., and were contributed to HCP Ventures II in January 2007. HCP owned a 35 percent noncontrolling interest in HCP Ventures II that was accounted under the equity method as an unconsolidated joint venture at December 31, 2010. In exchange for its partner's interest and the assumption of approximately $650 million of mortgage debt secured by the assets, HCP paid approximately $137 million in cash for the transaction.
The calculation of the HCP Ventures II Purchase consideration and total purchase price follows (in thousands):
(1)
Represents estimated fees and costs that will be expensed. These charges are directly attributable to the transaction and represent non-recurring costs; therefore, the anticipated
impact on the results of operations was excluded from the pro forma condensed consolidated statement of operations.
Adjustment to the total members' equity represents the elimination of such historical equity balance of HCP Ventures II.
(P)
HCP Ventures II's real estate assets have been adjusted to their preliminary estimated fair values as of December 31, 2010 and the related historical accumulated depreciation and amortization balances are eliminated when real estate assets are recorded at fair value.
(Q)
Adjustments to eliminate HCP's historical 35 percent interest in HCP Ventures II follow (in thousands):
The consolidation of HCP Ventures II results in an estimated gain of $8.2 million, which represents the estimated fair value of HCP's 35 percent noncontrolling interest in HCP Ventures II that is in excess of its carrying value at December 31, 2010. This gain is directly attributable to the transaction and represents a non-recurring credit; therefore, the impact on the results of operations was excluded from the pro forma consolidated statements of operations.
(R)
Adjustments to intangible assets follow (in thousands):
In-place lease intangible assets acquired include amounts for in-place lease values that are based on HCP's evaluation of the specific characteristics of each tenant's lease. Factors to be considered include estimates of carrying costs during hypothetical expected lease-up periods, market conditions, and costs to execute similar leases. In estimating carrying costs, HCP includes estimates of lost rentals at market rates during the expected lease-up periods, depending on local market conditions. In estimating costs to execute similar leases, HCP considers leasing commissions, legal and other related costs.
(S)
Adjustments to HCP Ventures II's historical balance of other assets follow (in thousands):
(T)
Adjustment to eliminate HCP Ventures II's historical discount on mortgage debt.
(U)
Adjustment to eliminate HCP Ventures II's historical balance of intangible liabilities associated with acquired in-place leases that have below-market rental rates.
(V)
Intentionally left blank.
(W)
Adjustments to rental and related revenues follow (in thousands):
(X)
Adjustments to eliminate management fees follow (in thousands):
(Y)
Adjustments to depreciation and amortization expense follow (in thousands):
        An estimated useful life of 30 years was assumed to compute real estate depreciation. For assets and liabilities associated with the value of in-place leases, a weighted-average remaining lease term of approximately 8.5 years was used to compute amortization expense. HCP computes depreciation and amortization using the straight-line method over the properties estimated useful lives or the remaining lease term of the related intangible.
(Z)
Adjustments to interest expense follow (in thousands):
(AA)
Adjustment eliminates HCP Ventures II's historical impairment of its straight-line rent assets. In October 2010, HCP Ventures II determined that the collectability of the straight-line rents was not reasonably assured and as a result established an allowance to fully impair the carrying value of its straight-line rent assets effective July 1, 2010. Further, HCP Ventures II limited its recognition of rental revenues to amounts collected from the related tenant. Assuming the HCP Ventures II Purchase occurred on January 1, 2010, no value would be attributed to straight-line asset in purchase accounting; therefore, no impairment of straight-line rent assets would have occurred.
(BB)
Represents the elimination of HCP's historical equity income from and related impairment of its 35 percent interest in HCP Ventures II, which resulted from the pro forma consolidation of HCP Ventures II assumed on January 1, 2010.
(CC)
The calculations of basic and diluted income from continuing operations attributable to common stock per share follow (in thousands, except per share data):
(DD)
The pro forma weighted-average shares outstanding are the historical weighted-average shares of HCP for the year ended December 31, 2010, adjusted for the assumed issuance of 24 million shares of HCP common stock on a weighted-average basis for the year ended December 31, 2010. Additionally, the historical weighted-average shares of HCP for the year ended December 31, 2010 have been adjusted for the impact of the December 2010 issuance of 46 million shares of HCP common stock as if the issuance had occurred as of January 1, 2010 as such shares were issued in order to finance the Acquisitions.
QuickLinks
Exhibit 99.1
HCP, INC. UNAUDITED PRO FORMA CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET December 31, 2010
HCP, INC. UNAUDITED PRO FORMA CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2010
HCP, INC. NOTES TO UNAUDITED PRO FORMA CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
Exhibit 99.2
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
HCR Properties, LLC For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 With Report of Independent Auditors
Report of Independent Auditors
The Board of Directors of HCR Properties, LLC
        We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of HCR Properties, LLC. as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the related consolidated statements of income, cash flows and member's deficit for each of the three years ended December 31, 2010. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
        We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. We were not engaged to perform an audit of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. Our audits included consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
        In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of HCR Properties, LLC at December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years ended December 31, 2010 in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
/s/ Ernst & Young
Toledo, Ohio February 1, 2011
1. Accounting Policies
Nature of Operations
        HCR Properties, LLC and subsidiaries (the Company) lease certain property and equipment of 331 skilled nursing and assisted living centers to a related party, HCR III Healthcare, LLC. The centers are located in 30 states, with 63 percent located in Florida, Illinois, Michigan, Ohio and Pennsylvania.
Principles of Consolidation and Basis of Presentation
        The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of HCR Properties, LLC and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. HCR Properties, LLC is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Manor Care, Inc.
        Effective July 1, 2009, the Company adopted a new accounting standard that was issued to establish the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standard Codification as the source of authoritative accounting principles recognized by the FASB to be applied by nongovernmental entities in the preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. Adopting this standard had no impact on the Company's financial position or results of operations.
Related-Party Transactions
        HCR III Healthcare, LLC is an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of HCR Healthcare, LLC and Manor Care, Inc. Certain of the consolidated subsidiaries of HCR Properties, LLC hold the title to the property and equipment of the skilled nursing and assisted living facilities. HCR III Healthcare, LLC (also referred to as Master Tenant) leases the property from certain subsidiaries of HCR Properties, LLC and conducts the operations of the business. The lease is accounted for as a direct financing lease. HCR Properties, LLC distributes the residual lease payments to Manor Care, Inc., which represents the portion of the lease payments received from HCR III Healthcare, LLC which are not used by subsidiaries of HCR Properties, LLC to make payments with respect to their loan agreements. The distributions were $273.4 million, $256.4 million, and $142.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. In addition, Manor Care, Inc. contributes funds to HCR Properties, LLC as needed, which totaled $18.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2009.
        Certain wholly-owned subsidiaries of HCR Healthcare, LLC perform services for the Company, which will be referred to hereafter as an affiliated company. An affiliated company provides strategic advisory and management services to the Company in accordance with a corporate services agreement. The management fee is based on an agreed upon fee for each legal entity, as defined in the agreement. Total management fees were $1.6 million for each of the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008. Cash is received and disbursed on behalf of the Company by an affiliated company. The net payable to an affiliated company was $20.8 million and $19.5 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The payable is due on the earlier of 30 days after the affiliated company demands payment, the Company is no longer a direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Manor Care, Inc., or an event of default, as defined in the agreement. The payable is guaranteed by Manor Care, Inc. Payments or other credits are applied against any outstanding balance on a first-in, first-out basis. Generally, the payable accrues interest if it remains outstanding for more than three months. There was no interest expense recorded during the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, or 2008.
1. Accounting Policies (Continued)
Use of Estimates
        The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Restricted Cash and Cash Equivalents
        The Company's restricted cash and cash equivalents represent amounts escrowed under the Company's loan agreements for insurance and taxes
Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities
        The accounting standard for derivatives and hedging activities establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts, and for hedging activities. The Company records all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value. The accounting for changes in the fair value of derivatives depends on the intended use of the derivative and the resulting designation. Derivatives used to hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of an asset, liability, or firm commitment attributable to a particular risk, such as interest rate risk, are considered fair value hedges. Derivatives used to hedge the exposure to variability in expected future cash flows, or other types of forecasted transactions, are considered cash flow hedges.
        For derivatives designated as fair value hedges, changes in the fair value of the derivative and the hedged item related to the hedged risk are recognized in earnings. For derivatives designated as cash flow hedges, the effective portion of changes in the fair value of the derivative is initially reported in other comprehensive income (outside of earnings) and subsequently reclassified to earnings when the hedged transaction affects earnings, and the ineffective portion of changes in the fair value of the derivative is recognized directly in earnings. The Company assesses the effectiveness of each hedging relationship by comparing the changes in fair value or cash flows of the derivative hedging instrument with the changes in fair value or cash flows of the designated hedged item or transaction. For derivatives not designated as hedges, changes in fair value are recognized in earnings. The Company records all derivative activity in cash flows from operations.
        On January 1, 2009, the Company adopted a new accounting standard that amends and expands the disclosure requirements for derivative instruments and hedging activities. The new standard requires qualitative disclosures about objectives and strategies for using derivatives, quantitative disclosures about the fair value of and gains and losses on derivative instruments, and disclosures about credit-risk-related contingent features in derivative instruments. See Note 5 for the expanded disclosures.
Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value
        The Company measures certain financial assets and liabilities at fair value on a recurring basis, as discussed in Note 6. On January 1, 2009, the Company adopted a new accounting standard for its non-financial assets and liabilities that are not recognized at fair value on a recurring basis. The new standard defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. The adoption of the standard for its non-financial assets did not affect the Company's consolidated financial statements.
1. Accounting Policies (Continued)
        In the first quarter of 2010, the Company adopted a new accounting standard that amends and expands the disclosures about fair value measurements. The additional disclosures include the amount of transfers between Levels 1 and 2 of the fair value hierarchy, the reasons for transfers in and out of Level 3 and activity for recurring Level 3 measures. The amendments clarify certain existing disclosure requirements related to the level at which fair value disclosures should be disaggregated and the requirement to provide disclosures about the valuation techniques and inputs used in determining the fair value of assets or liabilities classified as Levels 2 or 3. The Company previously provided disclosures about the valuation techniques and inputs. See Note 6 for these disclosures.
Concentrations of Credit Risk
        Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to significant concentrations of credit risk consist of restricted cash and cash equivalents, and derivatives, which the Company maintains with various financial institutions. The Company's loan agreements limit the types of investments that the Company can make. The majority of the Company's cash equivalents are invested in money market funds. As part of its cash and risk management process, the Company performs periodic evaluations of the relative credit standing of the financial institutions. The Company has not sustained credit losses from instruments held at financial institutions. The Company utilizes interest rate caps to add stability to interest expense. Such contracts involve the risk of non-performance by the counterparties with respect to the interest rate caps, which could result in a material loss if interest rates were to increase.
Income Taxes
        In accordance with accounting standards for income taxes, the Company's financial statements recognize the current and deferred income tax consequences that result from the Company's activities as if the Company were a separate taxpayer, rather than a member of the ultimate parent company's consolidated income tax return group. The Company's related party lease activity is eliminated in consolidation and not reflected in the parent company's consolidated tax return. As a result, the Company's current income taxes receivable or payable will remain on the Company's balance sheets.
Subsequent Events
        The Company has evaluated subsequent events through February 1, 2011, the date the financial statements were available to be issued.
2. Sale of the Company
        In December 2010, the Company and its ultimate parent, HCR ManorCare, Inc., signed an agreement to sell the real estate of its skilled nursing and assisted living facilities for $6.1 billion to HCP, Inc (HCP). The transaction has been approved by HCP's Board of Directors and the shareholders of HCR ManorCare, Inc., and is structured as a sale of the equity interests of the Company. HCR III Healthcare, LLC will continue to operate these facilities pursuant to a long-term triple-net master lease, for which the lease payments will be guaranteed by HCR ManorCare, Inc. The transaction is expected to close in the first quarter of 2011, subject to the completion of certain regulatory approvals, third party consents, and other customary closing conditions.
3. Net Investment in Direct Financing Lease and Subscription Receivable
        In December 2007, the Company entered into a master lease agreement to lease its property and equipment for skilled nursing and assisted living facilities to HCR III Healthcare, LLC. The original term of the agreement is 12 years with one 10-year renewal. Because HCR III Healthcare, LLC has an economic compulsion to renew the lease, all lease payments are included in the minimum lease payment calculations. At the inception of the lease, the present value of the minimum lease payments exceeded the fair value of the property and equipment. The excess value is classified as a subscription receivable and included in member's deficit. Unearned income is recognized as interest income using the interest method over the term of the lease. There is no allowance for uncollectible minimum lease payments receivable. In 2009, the Company sold one skilled nursing facility in Ohio for $4.7 million, resulting in a net gain of $1.2 million due to the related adjustment of the direct financing lease and subscription receivable.
        At December 31, 2010, future minimum lease payments receivable for the direct financing lease and future subscription payments receivable are as follows:
        At December 31, the components of net investment in direct financing lease consisted of:
        At December 31, the components of subscription receivable consisted of:
4. Debt
        At December 31, debt consisted of the following:
        Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities (CMBS) and Mezzanine Loans.
    In December 2007, subsidiaries of the Company entered into loan agreements with aggregate proceeds of $4.6 billion, consisting of CMBS totaling $3.0 billion and Mezzanine loans totaling $1.6 billion. The CMBS and Mezzanine debt are non-recourse and expire on January 9, 2012, subject to a one-year extension at the borrower's option if certain criteria are met. CMBS debt is secured by mortgages on the assets of certain of the subsidiaries of the Company, with a net book value of $2.8 billion at December 31, 2010. Interest on the CMBS and Mezzanine loans is payable monthly at LIBOR plus a spread, as defined in the loan agreements. Principal and any unpaid interest are payable at maturity. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the weighted-average interest rate on the CMBS and Mezzanine loans was 2.8 percent and 2.7 percent, respectively. See Note 5 for discussion on interest rate caps entered into with respect to the CMBS and Mezzanine debt. During 2009, the Company paid a total of $3.6 million on its CMBS and Mezzanine loans due to the sale of a facility and excess land. During 2008, the Company paid $0.5 million due to the sale of excess land at a facility with an immaterial prepayment premium.
        The CMBS and Mezzanine debt are not obligations of HCR Healthcare, LLC or HCR III Healthcare, LLC. HCR Properties, LLC and its subsidiaries' assets and credit are not available to satisfy the debts and other obligations of any of their affiliates or any other person. HCR III Healthcare, LLC and its subsidiaries' assets and credit are not available to satisfy the debts and other obligations of any of their affiliates or any other person.
        Fair Value.
    At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the carrying value of the Company's debt was $4.6 billion and the fair value was $4.3 billion and $3.9 billion, respectively. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the fair value of the Company's variable-rate debt was calculated using cash flows based upon the variable interest rate in effect at year end discounted at a current replacement spread over LIBOR based on current market conditions.
        Other Information.
    Interest paid, primarily related to debt, amounted to $129.2 million, $135.8 million, and $229.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively.
        The Company has assumed that it will extend the CMBS and Mezzanine debt for one year, which is permitted under the loan agreements if certain criteria are met, until 2013. Therefore, the only debt maturity for the five years subsequent to December 31, 2010 is $4.6 billion in 2013.
5. Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities
        Risk Management Objective of Using Derivatives.
    The Company is exposed to certain risk arising from both its business operations and economic conditions. The Company principally manages its exposures to a wide variety of business and operational risks through management of its core business activities. The Company manages economic risks, including interest rate, liquidity, and credit risk primarily by managing the amount, sources, and duration of its debt funding and the use of derivative financial instruments. Specifically, the Company enters into derivative financial instruments to manage exposures that arise from business activities that result in the receipt or payment of future known and uncertain cash amounts, the value of which are determined by interest rates. The Company's derivative financial instruments are used to manage differences in the amount, timing, and duration of the Company's known or expected cash receipts and its known or expected cash payments principally related to the Company's borrowings. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, no derivatives were designated as fair value hedges or hedges of net investments in foreign operations. Additionally, the Company does not use derivatives for trading or speculative purposes.
        Cash Flow Hedges of Interest Rate Risk.
    The Company's objectives in using interest rate derivatives are to add stability to interest expense and to manage its exposure to interest rate movements. To accomplish this objective, the Company uses interest rate caps as part of its interest rate risk management strategy. Interest rate caps designated as cash flow hedges involve the receipt of variable-rate amounts from a counterparty if interest rates rise above the strike rate on the contract in exchange for an up-front premium.
        The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives designated and that qualify as cash flow hedges is recorded in other comprehensive income (OCI) and is subsequently reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) into earnings in the period that the hedged forecasted transaction affects earnings. The ineffective portion of the change in fair value of the derivatives is recognized directly in earnings. Amounts reported in AOCI related to derivatives will be reclassified to interest expense as interest payments are made on the Company's variable-rate debt. The payment of $3.6 million of CMBS and Mezzanine variable rate debt in 2009 created a minor ineffective portion.
        During December 2007, the Company entered into 24 interest rate caps, which expire in January 2012, to hedge the variable cash flows associated with the CMBS and Mezzanine variable-rate debt of $4.6 billion for an up-front premium of $36.9 million. These transactions were executed in conjunction with interest rate floor transactions executed by HCR Healthcare, LLC. During the first quarter of 2009, the Company modified certain interest rate caps to reduce the strike rate on $2.5 billion of the total outstanding notional amount for an up-front premium of $14.2 million. As a result of these modifications, the Company discontinued prospectively the hedge accounting on 16 of its interest rate caps for $3.57 billion of the notional amount, as this portion no longer met the strict hedge accounting requirements. The Company continued to report the net loss at the time of the modification related to the discontinued cash flow hedges in AOCI and was reclassifying these losses into earnings during the original contractual terms of the derivative agreements as the hedged forecasted transactions were expected to occur.
        As discussed in Note 2, the Company signed an agreement in December 2010 to sell its equity interests, which is expected to close at the end of the first quarter of 2011. The Company intends to repay its CMBS and Mezzanine variable-rate debt and terminate its interest rate caps contemporaneous with this transaction. As a result, the Company discontinued prospectively the hedge accounting on its
5. Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities (Continued)
remaining eight interest rate caps with a notional amount of $1.03 billion as the hedged transactions were no longer probable to occur. As of December 31, 2010, the Company had no derivatives qualifying as cash flow hedges of interest rate risk. All prospective changes in the fair value of outstanding derivatives will be recorded directly to earnings.
        During December 2010, the Company reclassified $14.7 million of losses from AOCI to earnings as a missed forecast. The missed forecast represented those losses related to estimated hedged transactions that were expected to occur after March 31, 2011. The losses were required to be recognized in earnings as these hedged transactions were deemed probable not to occur as originally forecasted. During the first quarter of 2011, the Company estimates that $3.9 million will be reclassified from AOCI to earnings as an increase to interest expense.
        Non-Designated Hedges.
    Derivatives not designated as hedges are not speculative and are used to manage the Company's exposure to interest rate movements and other identified risks but do not meet the strict hedge accounting requirements. The Company uses interest rate caps as part of its interest rate risk management strategy. Interest rate caps involve the receipt of variable-rate amounts from a counterparty if interest rates rise above the strike rate on the contract. Changes in the fair value are recorded directly in earnings. As of December 31, 2010, the Company had 24 interest rate caps for a notional amount of $4.6 billion that were not designated as hedges in qualifying hedging relationships.
        Balance Sheet Classification.
    The fair value of the Company's derivative financial instruments and their classification on the consolidated balance sheets was as follows as of December 31:
5. Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities (Continued)
        Income Statement Effect.
    The effect of the Company's derivative financial instruments on the consolidated statements of income was as follows:
Derivatives Designated as Cash Flow Hedges
        Interest Rate Caps:
Derivatives Not Designated as Hedging Instruments
        Other Comprehensive Income (Loss).
    The derivative activity included in other comprehensive income (loss) was as follows:
6. Fair Value Measurements
        The Company measures certain financial assets and liabilities at fair value on a recurring basis. Fair value is a market-based measurement, not an entity-specific measurement. Therefore, a fair value measurement should be determined based on the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability. The Company's assessment of the significance of a particular input to the
6. Fair Value Measurements (Continued)
fair value measurement in its entirety requires judgment, and considers factors specific to the asset or liability. The following three-tier hierarchy prioritizes the inputs used in measuring fair value:
        The fair value of the Company's financial assets was determined using the following inputs at December 31, 2010 and 2009:
 
        There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during the years ended December 31, 2010, or 2009. There were no assets or liabilities classified in Level 3 during the years ended December 31, 2010 or 2009.
        The valuation of interest rate caps was determined using widely accepted valuation techniques, including discounted cash flow analysis on the expected cash flows of each derivative. This analysis reflected the contractual terms of the derivatives, including the period to maturity, and used observable market-based inputs, including interest rate curves and implied volatilities. The Company incorporated credit valuation adjustments to appropriately reflect the respective counterparty's nonperformance risk in the fair value measurements. Although the Company determined that the majority of the inputs used to value its derivatives fall within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy, the credit valuation adjustments associated with its derivatives utilize Level 3 inputs, such as estimates of current credit spreads, to evaluate the likelihood of default by its counterparties. However, as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company assessed the significance of the impact of the credit valuation adjustments on the overall valuation of its derivative positions and determined that the credit valuation adjustments were not
6. Fair Value Measurements (Continued)
significant to the overall valuation of its derivatives. As a result, the Company determined that its derivative valuations in their entirety were classified in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.
7. Income Taxes
        The provision for income taxes consisted of the following:
        The reconciliation of the amount computed by applying the statutory federal income tax rate to income before income taxes to the provision for income taxes was as follows:
        Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amount used for income tax
7. Income Taxes (Continued)
purposes. Significant components of the Company's federal and state deferred tax assets and liabilities were as follows at December 31:
QuickLinks
Exhibit 99.2
HCR Properties, LLC Consolidated Financial Statements Contents
HCR Properties, LLC Consolidated Balance Sheets
HCR Properties, LLC Consolidated Statements of Income
HCR Properties, LLC Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
HCR Properties, LLC Consolidated Statements of Member's Deficit
HCR Properties, LLC Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


