FILE:HCP/HCP-8K-20120118092346.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 240.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
HCP, Inc. ("HCP") is filing this Amendment No. 1 to Current Report on Form 8-K/A (this "Amendment") to amend its Current Report on Form 8-K filed on March 22, 2011 (the "Original Form 8-K") to include Exhibits 99.3 and 99.4 filed herewith to update HCP's unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statement of operations relating to the "HCR ManorCare Facilities Acquisition" (as defined in the Original Form 8-K) for the impact of the following: (i) the completion of the HCR ManorCare Facilities Acquisition; (ii) the purchase of the approximate 10% equity ownership interest in the operations of HCR ManorCare, Inc.; (iii) eliminate the pro forma effect of the "HCP Ventures II Purchase" (as defined in the Original Form 8-K); and (iv) the results of operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2011. In addition, HCR ManorCare PropCo's unaudited financial statements as of and for the three months ended March 31, 2011 are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.4. The information in Exhibit 99.4 was provided by HCR ManorCare, Inc.
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statement of operations attached hereto as Exhibit 99.3 should be read in conjunction with the Original Form 8-K and this Amendment.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.3
 
 
On April 7, 2011, the Company completed its acquisition of substantially all of the real estate assets of HCR ManorCare, Inc. ("HCR ManorCare), for a purchase price of $6 billion. The purchase price consisted of the following: (i) $4 billion in cash consideration; and (ii) $2 billion representing the fair value of the Company's former HCR ManorCare debt investments that were settled as part of this acquisition. Through this transaction, the Company acquired 334 HCR ManorCare post-acute, skilled nursing and assisted living facilities. A wholly-owned subsidiary of HCR ManorCare will continue to operate the assets pursuant to a long-term triple-net master lease agreement supported by a guaranty from HCR ManorCare. Additionally, the Company exercised its option to purchase an interest in the operations of HCR ManorCare (HCRMC Operations, LLC) for $95 million that represented a 9.9% equity interest at closing.
 
The accompanying unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements presented below have been prepared based on certain pro forma adjustments to the historical consolidated financial statements of HCP for the nine months ended September 30, 2011 and year ended December 31, 2010 and HCR Properties LLC ("HCR PropCo") for the three months ended March 31, 2011 and year ended December 31, 2010. The historical financial information of HCP was derived from its consolidated financial statements that are included in its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the nine months ended September 30, 2011 and Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010. The historical financial information of HCR PropCo was derived from its consolidated financial statements that are included as Exhibits 99.4 for the three months ended March 31, 2011 and 99.2 for the year ended December 31, 2010 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K as filed with the SEC on March 22, 2011, as amended on January 18, 2012.
 
The accompanying unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statements of operations give effect to the acquisition of HCR PropCo by HCP and the purchase of an interest in the operations of HCR ManorCare (the "Acquisitions"). The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statements of operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2011 and year ended December 31, 2010 have been prepared as if the Acquisition had occurred as of January 1, 2010. Such statements also reflect the incurrence of debt and give effect to certain capital transactions undertaken by HCP in order to finance the Acquisition.
 
In the opinion of HCP's management, the pro forma condensed consolidated statements of operations include all significant necessary adjustments that can be factually supported to reflect the effects of the Acquisitions. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements are provided for informational purposes only. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statements of operations are not necessarily and should not be assumed to be an indication of the results that would have been achieved had the transactions been completed as of the dates indicated or that may be achieved in the future.
 
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the respective historical financial statements and the notes thereto of HCP and HCR PropCo as of and for the year ended December 31, 2010 and for the nine months ended September 30, 2011 that are incorporated herein by reference.
 
(A)
                              
The historical financial statements of HCR PropCo for the three months ended March 31, 2011 and year ended December 31, 2010 have been presented based on the financial statement classification utilized by HCP. The historical financial statements of HCR PropCo have been adjusted for each of the periods presented in the pro forma results for HCP as if the Acquisitions were completed as of January 1 for the respective periods presented. The results of operations and related assets and liabilities of HCR PropCo have been included in HCP's consolidated financial statements from the acquisition date, April 7, 2011.
 
(B)
                              
Adjustments to income from DFLs follow (in thousands):
 
 
The Company's joint venture interest in HCRMC Operations, LLC is accounted for using the equity method and results in an ongoing reduction of DFL income, proportional to HCP's ownership in HCRMC Operations, LLC.
 
(C)
                              
Represents the elimination of interest earned on HCR ManorCare debt (held as loan investments by HCP) that was settled at closing. The settlement of these loan receivables resulted in a gain of $23 million that is included in interest income. As this non-recurring gain is directly attributable to the Aquisitions, its impact on HCP's results of operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2011 was excluded from the pro forma condensed consolidated statements of operations.
 
(D)
                              
Adjustments to interest expense follow (in thousands):
 
 
In January 2011, HCP issued an aggregate $2.4 billion of senior unsecured notes, including $400 million aggregate principal amount of 2.700% senior notes due 2014, $500 million aggregate principal amount of 3.750% senior notes due 2016, $1.2 billion aggregate principal amount of 5.375% senior notes due 2021, and $300 million aggregate principal amount of 6.750% senior notes due 2041. All of HCR PropCo's long-term debt, including HCP's aggregate investments in HCR PropCo debt with an aggregate face amount of $2.1 billion, was settled or repaid at closing.
(E)
                               
Adjustments to operating expenses follow (in thousands):
 
 
For intangible assets associated with the value of in-place ground leases, a weighted-average remaining lease term of approximately 88 years was used to compute amortization expense. The Company computes amortization using the straight-line method over the remaining lease term of the related lease.
 
(F)
                                
At the closing of the Acquisition, 100% of the real estate of HCR PropCo was acquired by a REIT subsidiary of HCP; accordingly, assuming this acquisition was effective January 1, 2010, substantially all of the amounts of the income tax expense would then be eliminated.
 
(G)
                              
The Company's joint venture interest in HCRMC Operations, LLC is accounted for using the equity method and results in an ongoing reduction of DFL income, proportional to HCP's ownership in HCRMC Operations, LLC. Further, the Company's share of earnings from HCRMC Operations, LLC (equity income) increases for the corresponding reduction of related lease expense recognized at the HCRMC Operations, LLC level.
 
(H)
                             
The calculations of basic and diluted earnings from continuing operations attributable to common stock per share follow (in thousands, except per share data):
 
 
(I)
                                  
The historical weighted-average shares of HCP for the year ended December 31, 2010 and September 30, 2011 have been adjusted for the impact of the December 2010 and March 2011 issuances of 76 million shares of HCP common stock (excludes 4.5 million in March 2011 related to the underwriter's overallotment option), as if the issuances had occurred as of January 1, 2010 as such shares were issued in order to finance the Acquisitions.

Exhibit 99.4
 
1.         Accounting Policies
 
Nature of Operations
HCR Properties, LLC and subsidiaries (the Company) lease certain property and equipment of 331 skilled nursing and assisted living centers to a related party, HCR III Healthcare, LLC.  The centers are located in 30 states, with 63 percent located in Florida, Illinois, Michigan, Ohio and Pennsylvania.
 
Principles of Consolidation and Basis of Presentation
The accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles for interim financial information.  Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by generally accepted accounting principles for complete financial statements.  In the opinion of management of the Company, all adjustments considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included and are of a normal and recurring nature.  Operating results for the three months ended March 31, 2011 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the year ending December 31, 2011.  These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Company's consolidated financial statements and footnotes for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008.
 
The consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2010 has been derived from audited consolidated financial statements at that date but does not include all of the information and footnotes required by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles for complete financial statements.
 
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of HCR Properties, LLC and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.  HCR Properties, LLC is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Manor Care, Inc.
 
Related-Party Transactions
HCR III Healthcare, LLC is an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of HCR Healthcare, LLC and Manor Care, Inc.  Certain of the consolidated subsidiaries of HCR Properties, LLC hold the title to the property and equipment of the skilled nursing and assisted living facilities.  HCR III Healthcare, LLC (also referred to as Master Tenant) leases the property from certain subsidiaries of HCR Properties, LLC and conducts the operations of the business.  The lease is accounted for as a direct financing lease.  HCR Properties, LLC distributes the residual lease payments to Manor Care, Inc., which represents the portion of the lease payments received from HCR III Healthcare, LLC which are not used by subsidiaries of HCR Properties, LLC to make payments with respect to their loan agreements.
 
Comprehensive Income
Comprehensive income represents the sum of net income plus other comprehensive income.  Comprehensive income was $46.6 million and $40.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  The other comprehensive income represented the unrealized loss on hedging derivatives and the reclassification adjustment for losses recognized  in earnings.
 
Subsequent Events
The Company has evaluated subsequent events through April 7, 2011, the date the equity interests of the Company were sold.
 
2.         Debt
 
At March 31, 2011, the carrying value and fair value of the Company's debt was $4.6 billion and $4.4 billion, respectively.  The fair value of the Company's variable-rate debt was calculated using cash flows based upon the variable interest rate in effect at March 31, 2011 discounted at a current replacement spread over LIBOR based on current market conditions.
Fair Value. 
 
 The commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS) and Mezzanine debt are not obligations of HCR Healthcare, LLC or HCR III Healthcare, LLC.  HCR Properties, LLC and its subsidiaries' assets and credit are not available to satisfy the debts and other obligations of any of their affiliates or any other person.  HCR III Healthcare, LLC and its subsidiaries' assets and credit are not available to satisfy the debts and other obligations of any of their affiliates or any other person.
Other Information.
 
3.         Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities
 
The Company is exposed to certain risk arising from both its business operations and economic conditions.  The Company principally manages its exposures to a wide variety of business and operational risks through management of its core business activities.  The Company manages economic risks, including interest rate, liquidity, and credit risk primarily by managing the amount, sources, and duration of its debt funding and the use of derivative financial instruments.  Specifically, the Company enters into derivative financial instruments to manage exposures that arise from business activities that result in the receipt or payment of future known and uncertain cash amounts, the value of which are determined by interest rates.  The Company's derivative financial instruments are used to manage differences in the amount, timing, and duration of the Company's known or expected cash receipts and its known or expected cash payments principally related to the Company's borrowings.  As of March 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, no derivatives were designated as fair value hedges or hedges of net investments in foreign operations.  Additionally, the Company does not use derivatives for trading or speculative purposes.
Risk Management Objective of Using Derivatives. 
 
The Company's objectives in using interest rate derivatives are to add stability to interest expense and to manage its exposure to interest rate movements.  To accomplish this objective, the Company uses interest rate caps as part of its interest rate risk management strategy.  Interest rate caps designated as cash flow hedges involve the receipt of variable-rate amounts from a counterparty if interest rates rise above the strike rate on the contract in exchange for an up-front premium.
            Cash Flow Hedges of Interest Rate Risk. 
 
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives designated and that qualify as cash flow hedges is recorded in other comprehensive income (OCI) and is subsequently reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) into earnings in the period that the hedged forecasted transaction affects earnings.  The ineffective portion of the change in fair value of the derivatives is recognized directly in earnings.  Amounts reported in AOCI related to derivatives will be reclassified to interest expense as interest payments are made on the Company's variable-rate debt.
 
During December 2007, the Company entered into 24 interest rate caps, which expire in January 2012, to hedge the variable cash flows associated with the CMBS and Mezzanine variable-rate debt of $4.6 billion for an up-front premium of $36.9 million.  These transactions were executed in conjunction with interest rate floor transactions executed by HCR Healthcare, LLC.  During the first quarter of 2009, the Company modified certain interest rate caps to reduce the strike rate on $2.5 billion of the total outstanding notional amount for an up-front premium of $14.2 million.  As a result of these modifications, the Company discontinued prospectively the hedge accounting on 16 of its interest rate caps for $3.57 billion of the notional amount, as this portion no longer met the strict hedge accounting requirements.  The Company continued to report the net loss at the time of the modification related to the discontinued cash flow hedges in AOCI and was reclassifying these losses into earnings during the original contractual terms of the derivative agreements as the hedged forecasted transactions were expected to occur.
 
During December 2010, the Company signed an agreement to sell its equity interests, as discussed in Note 5.  The Company intended to repay its CMBS and Mezzanine variable-rate debt and terminate its interest rate caps contemporaneous with this transaction.  As a result of the anticipated sale, the Company discontinued prospectively the hedge accounting on its remaining eight interest rate caps with a notional amount of $1.03 billion in December 2010 as the hedged transactions were no longer probable to occur.  As of March 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, the Company had no derivatives qualifying as cash flow hedges of interest rate risk.  All prospective changes in the fair value of outstanding derivatives are recorded directly to earnings.
 
During December 2010, the Company reclassified $14.7 million of losses from AOCI to earnings as a missed forecast.  The missed forecast represented those losses related to estimated hedged transactions that were expected to occur after March 31, 2011.  The losses were required to be recognized in earnings as these hedged transactions were deemed probable not to occur as originally forecasted.  During the first quarter of 2011, the Company reclassified the remaining $3.9 million of losses from AOCI to earnings as an increase to interest expense.
 
Derivatives not designated as hedges are not speculative and are used to manage the Company's exposure to interest rate movements and other identified risks but do not meet the strict hedge accounting requirements.  The Company uses interest rate caps as part of its interest rate risk management strategy.  Interest rate caps involve the receipt of variable-rate amounts from a counterparty if interest rates rise above the strike rate on the contract.  Changes in the fair value are recorded directly in earnings.  As of March 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, the Company had 24 interest rate caps for a notional amount of $4.6 billion that were not designated as hedges in qualifying hedging relationships.
            Non-Designated Hedges. 
 
The fair value of the Company's derivative financial instruments and their classification on the consolidated balance sheets was as follows:
Balance Sheet Classification. 
 
 
The effect of the Company's derivative financial instruments on the consolidated statements of income was as follows:
Income Statement Effect. 
 
Derivatives Designated as Cash Flow Hedges
Interest Rate Caps:
 
Derivatives Not Designated as Hedging Instruments
 
 
4.         Fair Value Measurements
 
The Company measures certain financial assets and liabilities at fair value on a recurring basis.  Fair value is a market-based measurement, not an entity-specific measurement.  Therefore, a fair value measurement should be determined based on the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability.  The Company's assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement in its entirety requires judgment, and considers factors specific to the asset or liability.  The following three-tier hierarchy prioritizes the inputs used in measuring fair value:
 
Level 1:  Observable inputs such as quoted prices in active markets;
Level 2:  Inputs, other than quoted prices in active markets, that are observable either directly or indirectly; and
Level 3:  Unobservable inputs for which there is little or no market data, which requires the Company to develop assumptions.
 
The fair value of the Company's financial assets was determined using the following inputs:
 
There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during the three months ended March 31, 2011 or the year ended December 31, 2010.  There were no assets or liabilities classified in Level 3 during the three months ended March 31, 2011 or the year ended December 31, 2010.
 
The valuation of interest rate caps was determined using widely accepted valuation techniques, including discounted cash flow analysis on the expected cash flows of each derivative.  This analysis reflected the contractual terms of the derivatives, including the period to maturity, and used observable market-based inputs, including interest rate curves and implied volatilities.  The Company incorporated credit valuation adjustments to appropriately reflect the respective counterparty's nonperformance risk in the fair value measurements.  Although the Company determined that the majority of the inputs used to value its derivatives fall within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy, the credit valuation adjustments associated with its derivatives utilize Level 3 inputs, such as estimates of current credit spreads, to evaluate the likelihood of default by its counterparties.  However, as of March 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, the Company assessed the significance of the impact of the credit valuation adjustments on the overall valuation of its derivative positions and determined that the credit valuation adjustments were not significant to the overall valuation of its derivatives.  As a result, the Company determined that its derivative valuations in their entirety were classified in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.
 
5.         Subsequent Event
During December 2010, the Company and its ultimate parent, HCR ManorCare, Inc., signed an agreement to sell the real estate of substantially all of its skilled nursing and assisted living facilities for $6.1 billion to HCP, Inc.  The transaction was structured as a sale of the equity interests of the Company, which closed in April 2011.  At closing, the CMBS and Mezzanine variable-rate debt of $4.6 billion was repaid, which resulted in the write off of $27.5 million of unamortized deferred financing fees.  The interest rate caps were also terminated for an immaterial amount.  HCR III Healthcare, LLC continues to operate these facilities pursuant to a long-term triple-net master lease with subsidiaries of HCP, Inc.


