FILE:UTX/UTX-8K-20020911091947.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
Item 5. Other Events
On September 10, 2002, United Technologies Corporation (the "Corporation") issued a press release announcing the election of Stephen F. Page as Chief Financial Officer. Page will replace David J. FitzPatrick, who has resigned to become Chief Financial Officer of Tyco International. Page will remain Vice Chairman of the Corporation and a board member.
 
Item 7. Exhibits
The following press release is annexed as an Exhibit:
Exhibit Number     Description
99.1             Press release, dated as of September 10, 2002, issued by United Technologies Corporation.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
INDEX TO EXHIBITS
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
CONTACT: Peter Murphy FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (860) 728-7977 www.utc.com
 
 
HARTFORD, Conn., Sept. 10, 2002 -- United Technologies Corp. (NYSE:UTX) today announced the election of Steve Page as UTC's Chief Financial Officer, replacing Dave FitzPatrick, 48, who has resigned to become Chief Financial Officer of Tyco International. Page's election is effective immediately.
George David, UTC's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, said, "We regret Dave's resignation but understand his wish to participate in one of the largest turnarounds ever. Dave has made lots of contributions during his tenure with UTC, and we appreciate and thank him for these. We wish him the best."
Page, 62, returns to a position he held with great impact as UTC's Chief Financial Officer during the years 1993 -1997. Subsequently he was President of Otis Elevator until earlier this year when he was elected Vice Chairman and a member of UTC's board. David said, "I welcome a close colleague back into one of the most important positions in UTC."
Page will remain UTC's Vice Chairman and a board member.
"Steve and I would like to see succession internally when he retires from UTC. We have previously anticipated this in 2004, and we feel there will be ample opportunities and candidates with long service and experience within UTC to enable this," David said.
United Technologies Corporation provides products and services to the building systems and aerospace industries worldwide.
 


