FILE:UTX/UTX-8K-20041020082238.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2Financial Information
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On October 20, 2004, United Technologies Corporation issued a press release announcing its third quarter 2004 results. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
The press release issued October 20, 2004 is furnished herewith as Exhibit No. 99.1 to this Report, and shall not be deemed filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act.
 
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
The following exhibit is included herewith:
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
HARTFORD, Conn., October 20, 2004  United Technologies Corp. (NYSE:UTX) today reported third quarter diluted earnings per share of $1.43 and net income of $722 million, both up 13 percent from the prior year. Revenues increased 17 percent to $9.3 billion with organic growth of 9 percent. Cash flow from operations was $950 million, including $201 million of voluntary contributions to pension plans, and exceeded net income after capital expenditures of $180 million.
 
"This was another solid quarter the UTC way," said Chairman and CEO George David. "We had tougher conditions in Carrier's North American air conditioning markets after an exceptionally strong first half, but excellent Otis results and continuing recovery in aerospace aftermarkets provided the balance. As anticipated, restructuring costs in the quarter reduced EPS by 8 cents."
 
"As we close in on the year, we're tightening EPS guidance to a range of $5.45-$5.50, equaling 16 or 17 percent growth for the year. Operating cash flow remains strong and after capital expenditures should equal net income for the year including approximately $700 million to fund pension plans. We'll confirm 2005 expectations at our usual investor meeting in December, with the outlook currently being for double digit earnings growth," concluded David.
 
Third quarter results include restructuring charges of $58 million. As previously disclosed, full year charges for cost reduction actions will exceed the favorable impact of a second quarter tax settlement and first quarter contract related gain. Favorable foreign exchange added 3 percentage points each to revenue and EPS growth in the quarter.
Year to date acquisition spending of approximately $340 million does not include the Linde Refrigeration transaction which closed earlier this month for about $390 million including debt assumed. UTC has repurchased $688 million of common stock year to date, including $208 million in the third quarter. Full year share repurchase is now expected to exceed $900 million.
 
For the nine months to date, UTC reported EPS of $4.23, 20 percent above last year. Net income increased to $2.14 billion, 21 percent above last year. Cash flow from operations was $2.84 billion and after capital expenditures of $451 million exceeded year to date net income. Revenues for the first three quarters were $27.6 billion, 23 percent above last year.
 
The accompanying tables include information integral to assessing the company's financial position, operating performance and cash flow.
 
United Technologies Corp., based in Hartford, Connecticut, is a diversified company that provides a broad range of high technology products and support services to the building systems and aerospace industries. This release includes forward looking statements concerning expected future earnings, cash flow and other matters related to future business and financial performance and plans. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions, which are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties. For information identifying economic, political, climatic, currency, regulatory, technological, competitive and other important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in forward looking statements, see UTC's SEC filings and reports as updated from time to time, including, but not limited to, the information in the "Business" section of UTC's Annual Report on Form 10-K and in UTC's 10-K and 10-Q reports under the heading "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."
 
# # #
United Technologies Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations
 
 
As further described on the following page, results for the third quarter and first nine months of 2004 include restructuring and related charges of $58 million and $473 million, respectively.
United Technologies Corporation
Segment Revenues and Operating Profit
 
(Unaudited)
 
 
Segment operating profit for the nine months ended September 30, 2004 includes restructuring and related charges of $473 million as follows: Otis - $117 million; Carrier - $202 million; Pratt & Whitney - $97 million; Flight - $43 million and Eliminations and other - $14 million. The amounts recorded in the third quarter totaled $58 million as follows: Otis - $11 million; Carrier - $18 million; Pratt & Whitney - $23 million; Flight - $5 million and Eliminations and other - $1 million.
 
The Corporation recorded restructuring and related charges of $11 million and $44 million in the third quarter and first nine months of 2003, respectively, in connection with its continuing cost reduction efforts in both the commercial and aerospace segments.
United Technologies Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet
 
United Technologies Corporation
Condensed Statement of Cash Flows
 
United Technologies Corporation
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements
 
 
 


