FILE:UTX/UTX-8K-20040721090349.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 12.   Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On July 21, 2004, United Technologies Corporation issued a press release announcing its second quarter 2004 results. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
The press release issued July 21, 2004 is furnished herewith as Exhibit No. 99.1 to this Report, and shall not be deemed filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
INDEX TO EXHIBITS
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
HARTFORD, Conn., July 21, 2004  United Technologies Corp. (NYSE:UTX) today reported second quarter diluted earnings per share improved to $1.66 and net income increased to $837 million, both up 32 percent compared with the year ago quarter. Consolidated revenues grew 24 percent to $9.6 billion, on organic growth of 9 percent and the addition of Chubb. Cash flow from operations of $1,101 million less capital expenditures of $148 million exceeded net income in the quarter.
 
As previously disclosed, the quarter's results include higher interest income and the benefit of a favorable income tax adjustment, both resulting from settlement of 1986-1993 U.S. Federal tax audits. The company recorded restructuring charges of $156 million in the quarter. The net impact of these items contributed 14 cents to earnings per share. For the full year, charges for cost reduction actions will exceed the favorable impact of this tax settlement and a first quarter contract related gain.
 
Favorable foreign exchange in the quarter added 2 percentage points to revenue growth and 4 cents to earnings per share.
 
"This was a very strong quarter. We had double digit organic revenue growth at Carrier, continuing exceptional performance at Otis, and recovery in the commercial aerospace aftermarket," said Chairman and Chief Executive Officer George David.
 
"We're raising our 2004 earnings and cash flow outlook accordingly. Full year earnings per share should grow at least 15 percent to the range of $5.40 to $5.50. Cash flow from operations less capital expenditures should equal net income, including voluntary contributions to pension plans globally of $500 million."
David added, "We like the way we are positioned for the next several years. Restructuring actions initiated from the first quarter gain, second quarter tax settlement and operating income above expectations will exceed $500 million this year and provide steady and increasing returns over the 2005-2006 time period. We like our acquisition strategy, including the prospective Linde acquisition by Carrier. Our cost reduction disciplines are mature and have momentum and we anticipate continuing margin expansion. The company feels great."
 
UTC repurchased $264 million of its common stock in the quarter and $480 million year to date. Full year guidance is being raised to approximately $800 million.
 
Year to date earnings per share increased 23 percent on revenue growth of 26 percent. For the first half, net income grew 25 percent to $1.4 billion. Cash from operations of $1.9 billion less capital expenditures of $271 million exceeded net income, including $358 million of voluntary contributions to pension plans globally.
 
The accompanying tables include information integral to assessing the company's financial position, operating performance and cash flow.
 
United Technologies Corp., based in Hartford, Connecticut, is a diversified company that provides a broad range of high technology products and support services to the building systems and aerospace industries. This release includes forward looking statements concerning expected future earnings, cash flow and other matters related to future business and financial performance and plans. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions, which are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties. For information identifying economic, political, climatic, currency, regulatory, technological, competitive and other important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in forward looking statements, see UTC's SEC filings and reports as updated from time to time, including, but not limited to, the information in the "Business" section of UTC's Annual Report on Form 10-K and in UTC's 10-K and 10-Q reports under the heading "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."
 
# # #
United Technologies Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations
 
 
Results for the six months ended June 30, 2004 also include a $250 million pre-tax payment from DaimlerChrysler in consideration for the Corporation's release of certain commitments made by DaimlerChrysler in support of MTU Aero Engines GmbH. Results for the six months of 2004 also include pre-tax restructuring charges of $259 million.
 
See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
United Technologies Corporation
Segment Revenues and Operating Profit
 
(Unaudited)
 
 
Segment operating profit for the six months ended June 30, 2004 includes restructuring and related charges. The amounts recorded in the first quarter were as follows: Otis - $68 million; Carrier - $113 million; Pratt & Whitney - $51 million; Flight - $21 million; and Eliminations and other - $6 million.
 
The amounts recorded in the second quarter were as follows: Otis - $38 million; Carrier - $71 million; Pratt & Whitney - $23 million; Flight - $17 million and Eliminations and other - $7 million.
 
In the first and second quarters of 2003, the Corporation recorded charges of $11 million and $22 million, respectively, in connection with its continuing cost reduction efforts. These charges were similar in nature to those noted above and were recorded in both the commercial and aerospace units.
 
See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
United Technologies Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet
 
 
See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
United Technologies Corporation
Condensed Statement of Cash Flows
 
 
See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements
United Technologies Corporation
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements
 
 


