FILE:UTX/UTX-8K-20051018083911.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2Financial Information
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On October 18, 2005, United Technologies Corporation issued a press release announcing its third quarter 2005 results.
 
The press release issued October 18, 2005 is furnished herewith as Exhibit No. 99.1 to this Report, and shall not be deemed filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act.
 
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
The following exhibit is included herewith:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
HARTFORD, Conn., October 18, 2005  United Technologies Corp. (NYSE:UTX) today reported third quarter 2005 diluted earnings per share of $0.81 and net income of $821 million, up 19 and 18 percent respectively compared with the year ago quarter. Consolidated revenues increased 17 percent to $10.9 billion, reflecting 6 percent organic growth and contributions from the Linde commercial refrigeration and Kidde fire protection acquisitions. Cash flow from operations was $1.155 billion, including $200 million of voluntary contributions to pension plans and, after capital expenditures of $249 million, exceeded net income.
 
"Third quarter performance was again very good and adds to a strong year for UTC," said Chairman and Chief Executive Officer George David. "As a result we are increasing our full year earnings per share growth estimate to 17 percent and now expect earnings per share in the range of $3.08 to $3.10, up from $3.00 to $3.07."
 
"All segments delivered double digit operating profit increases in the quarter, with organic growth continuing at solid levels," David said. "Carrier's North American HVAC market rebounded as expected from a slow first half, while our aerospace markets continued the steady growth we've seen over the last 12 months."
 
"We expect this good performance to continue in 2006 with double digit earnings growth and will confirm our expectations at our usual December investor meeting," he added.
 
As anticipated, third quarter results included $50 million in restructuring costs which partially offset the excess of gains over restructure costs reported in the second quarter. In the year ago quarter, restructuring costs were slightly higher.
 
Share repurchase in the quarter was $385 million bringing the total for the first nine months to $760 million. Share repurchase over the balance of the year is likely to continue at the third quarter rate and will result in UTC's exceeding the prior guidance of approximately $1 billion for the year. The acquisition spending outlook remains unchanged at $4.5 billion for the year with approximately $4 billion, including debt assumed, completed to date. This amount includes the acquisition of Rocketdyne in the third quarter.
As previously indicated, full year cash flow from operations less capital expenditures and including voluntary cash pension contributions of $500 million should equal or exceed net income.
 
Year to date earnings per share increased 18 percent to $2.40 on revenue growth of 14 percent. Net income grew 19 percent to $2.4 billion. Cash flow from operations of $3.2 billion includes $365 million in voluntary cash pension contributions and, after capital expenditures of $584 million, exceeds net income.
 
The accompanying tables include information integral to assessing the company's financial position, operating performance and cash flow.
 
United Technologies Corp., based in Hartford, Connecticut, is a diversified company that provides a broad range of high technology products and support services to the building systems and aerospace industries.
 
This release is supplemented by presentation materials that are available on UTC's website at www.utc.com, and includes "forward looking statements" concerning expected revenues, earnings, cash flow and other matters that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated or implied in forward looking statements include the health of the global economy; strength of end market demand in building construction and in both the commercial and defense segments of the aerospace industry; fluctuation in commodity prices, interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and the impact of weather conditions; and company specific items including the availability and impact of acquisitions, the rate and ability to effectively integrate these acquired businesses, the ability to achieve cost reductions at planned levels, and the outcome of legal proceedings. For information identifying other important economic, political, regulatory, legal, technological, competitive and other uncertainties, see UTC's SEC filings as submitted from time to time, including but not limited to, the information in the "Business" section of UTC's Annual Report on Form 10-K, the information included in UTC's 10-K and 10-Q Reports under the heading "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations", and the information included in Current Reports on Form 8-K.
 
United Technologies Corporation
 
Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations
 
 
As described on the following pages, consolidated results for the quarters and nine months ended September 30, 2005 and 2004 include restructuring and related charges and non-recurring items.
United Technologies Corporation
 
Segment Revenues and Operating Profit
 
 
As described on the following pages, consolidated results for the quarters and nine months ended September 30, 2005 and 2004 include restructuring and related charges and non-recurring items.
United Technologies Corporation
 
Consolidated Operating Profit
 
Consolidated operating profit for the quarters and nine months ended September 30, 2005 and 2004 includes restructuring and related charges as follows:
 
 
Consolidated results for the quarters and nine months ended September 30, 2005 and 2004 include the following non-recurring items:
 
2005
 
Q2
 
 
 
In the second quarter, the net impact of the above favorable items ($0.14 per share), together with $70 million of pre-tax restructuring and related charges ($0.05 per share), contributed $0.09 to earnings per share.
Q1
 
 
2004
 
Q2
 
 
 
In the second quarter, the net impact of the above favorable items, together with $156 million of pre-tax restructuring and related charges, contributed $0.07 to earnings per share on a post-split basis.
 
Q1
 
United Technologies Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet
 
United Technologies Corporation
Condensed Statement of Cash Flows
 
United Technologies Corporation
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements
 
 
 
 


