FILE:UTX/UTX-8K-20050418163901.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Section 1Registrant's Business and Operations
 
Item 1.01.Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
On April 13, 2005, United Technologies Corporation ("UTC") held its 2005 Annual Meeting of Shareowners. Shareowners submitting votes for the meeting approved the adoption of the United Technologies Corporation 2005 Long Term Incentive Plan (the "2005 Plan"). The 2005 Plan became effective on April 13, 2005, upon approval by shareowners. A summary description of the 2005 Plan is set forth on pages 16 through 20 of UTC's Proxy Statement dated February 25, 2005, which description is incorporated by reference herein. Such description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the complete terms and conditions of the 2005 Plan, a copy of which is included herewith as Exhibit 10.1 to this Report.
 
Section 8Other Events
 
Item 8.01.Other Events
 
On April 13, 2005, UTC's Board of Directors approved a 2-for-1 split of UTC's Common Stock in the form of a stock dividend. The stock dividend will be issued June 10, 2005 to shareowners of record at the close of business on May 20, 2005. The Board also doubled the outstanding authorization for the repurchase of UTC Common Stock in keeping with the stock split.
 
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c) Exhibits
 
The following Exhibit is included herewith:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
SECTION 1. Purpose
The purpose of this Plan is to give the Corporation a competitive advantage in attracting, retaining and motivating officers, employees and directors through a long term incentive plan providing stock and performance based awards linked to shareholder value.
 
SECTION 2. Definitions
Certain terms used herein have definitions provided when they are first used. In addition, for purposes of this Plan, the following terms are defined as set forth below:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 3. Administration
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 4. Common Stock Subject to Plan
 
 
 
SECTION 5. Options and Stock Appreciation Rights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee shall have the power, in its discretion, to apply different rules concerning the consequences of a Termination of Employment; as set forth in the applicable Award Agreement.
 
SECTION 6. Restricted Stock
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 7. Performance Share Units
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 8. Restricted Stock Units
. A "Restricted Stock Unit" is equal in value to one Share of Common Stock and subject to vesting on the basis of a period of continuous employment with the Corporation or an Affiliate or other criteria as specified in the Award Agreement. Upon vesting, Restricted Stock Units will be settled by delivery of Shares to the Participant equal to the number of vested Restricted Stock Units.
Nature of Award
 
SECTION 9. Other Stock-Based Award
Other Awards that are valued in whole or in part by reference to, or are otherwise based upon, Common Stock, including (without limitation) unrestricted stock, dividend equivalents, and convertible debentures, may be granted under the Plan.
 
SECTION 10. Future Events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 11. Qualified Performance-Based Awards
 
 
 
SECTION 12. Term, Amendment and Termination
 
 
 
 
SECTION 13. General Provisions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Following any of these events and immediately upon notice from the Corporation, the Participant must repay an amount equal to all income or gain realized in respect of any Awards on and after the earlier of (A) the date that is twelve months prior to the Date of Termination of Employment or (B) the date the conduct occurred that constituted the basis for termination for Cause in (1) or (2) above. The amount of repayment shall include, without limitation: (i) gains from the exercise of Options or Stock Appreciation Rights; (ii) amounts received in connection with the delivery or sale of Shares or cash paid in respect of any Award; and (iii) any dividends, dividend equivalents or other distributions received in respect of any Award. There shall be no forfeiture or repayment under this Section 13 (e) following a Change in Control.
 
 
 
 
 
 


