FILE:UTX/UTX-8K-20051222161126.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Section 8Other Events
 
Item 8.01. Other Events
 
Attached as Exhibit 100 to this report are the following materials from United Technologies Corporation's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2005, filed on October 21, 2005, formatted in XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting Language): (i) the information contained in Items 1-4 of Part I, (ii) the information contained in Items 1, 2 and 6 of Part II, and (iii) the Exhibits to the Form 10-Q. Users of this data are advised pursuant to Rule 401 of Regulation S-T that the information contained in the XBRL documents is unaudited and these are not the official publicly filed financial statements of United Technologies Corporation. The purpose of submitting these XBRL formatted documents is to test the related format and technology and, as a result, investors should continue to rely on the official filed version of the furnished documents and not rely on this information in making investment decisions.
 
In accordance with Rule 402 of Regulation S-T, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the Exhibits, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
The following exhibits are included herewith:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99
 
 
To the Board of Directors and Shareowners
of United Technologies Corporation:
 
We have examined the accompanying XBRL-Related Documents of United Technologies Corporation (the "Corporation"), presented as Exhibit 100 to the Corporation's Current Report on Form 8-K, which reflect the data presented in the Corporation's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter and nine-months ended September 30, 2005. The Corporation's management is responsible for the XBRL-Related Documents. Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our examination.
 
We have also reviewed, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the financial statements of the Corporation as of September 30, 2005, and for the three and nine-month periods then ended, the objective of which was the expression of limited assurance on such financial statements, and issued our report thereon dated October 21, 2005. A review of financial statements is substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the objective of which is the expression of an opinion regarding the financial statements taken as a whole. Accordingly, we do not express such an opinion.
 
In addition, we have previously audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2004, and the related consolidated statements of operations, of cash flows and of changes in shareowners' equity for the year then ended, management's assessment of the effectiveness of the Corporation's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004 and the effectiveness of the Corporation's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004, and in our report dated February 10, 2005, except for Notes 1, 10 and 16 for which the date is May 6, 2005, we expressed unqualified opinions thereon. We were not engaged to and did not conduct a review of the information contained in Part I, Items 2, 3 and 4 and Part II, Items 1, 2 and 6 of the Corporation's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter and nine-months ended September 30, 2005, the objective of which would have been the expression of limited assurance on such aforementioned information. Accordingly, we do not express an opinion or any other assurance on such aforementioned information.
 
Our examination of the XBRL-Related Documents was conducted in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) and, accordingly, included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the XBRL-Related Documents. Our examination also included evaluating the XBRL-Related Documents for conformity with the applicable XBRL taxonomies and specifications and the content and format requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission. We believe that our examination provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
In our opinion, the XBRL-Related Documents of United Technologies Corporation referred to above accurately reflect, in all material respects, the data presented in the Corporation's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter and nine-months ended September 30, 2005, in conformity with the US GAAPCommercial and Industrial Taxonomy, US Financial ReportingManagement's Discussion and Analysis Taxonomy, US Financial ReportingAccountant's Report Taxonomy, US Financial ReportingSEC Certifications Taxonomy, extensions specific to United Technologies Corporation (as included in Exhibit EX-100.SCH and EX-100.SCH-1), and the XBRL Specifications (Version 2.1).
 
/s/    PC LLP
RICEWATERHOUSE
OOPERS
 
Hartford, CT
December 22, 2005









