FILE:UTX/UTX-8K-20050425171709.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Section 8Other Events
 
Item 8.01. Other Events
 
The Bank of New York ("BONY") resigned as trustee under the Amended and Restated Indenture, dated as of May 1, 2001, between United Technologies Corporation ("UTC") and BONY, and the Indenture, dated as of August 1, 1982, as amended, between UTC and BONY (together, the "Indentures"). UTC has appointed The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. ("Bank of New York Trust") as successor trustee under the Indentures, and Bank of New York Trust has accepted this appointment. BONY's resignation and the appointment and acceptance of Bank of New York Trust became effective as of April 13, 2005.
 
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
UTC furnishes herewith the following exhibit to its Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-118810):
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 25.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Act, the trustee, The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., a banking association organized and existing under the laws of the United States of America, has duly caused this statement of eligibility to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, all in The City of Chicago, and State of Illinois, on the 25th day of April, 2005.
 
 
EXHIBIT 7
 
 
At the close of business December 31, 2004, published in accordance with Federal regulatory authority instructions.
 
 
LIABILITIES
 
 
I, Thomas J. Mastro, Comptroller of the above-named bank do hereby declare that this Report of Condition has been prepared in conformance with the instructions issued by the appropriate Federal regulatory authority and is true to the best of my knowledge and belief.
 
 
We, the undersigned directors, attest to the correctness of this Report of Condition and declare that it has been examined by us and to the best of our knowledge and belief has been prepared in conformance with the instructions issued by the appropriate Federal regulatory authority and is true and correct.
 
 


