FILE:UTX/UTX-8K-20050420081608.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2Financial Information
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On April 20, 2005, United Technologies Corporation issued a press release announcing its first quarter 2005 results.
 
The press release issued April 20, 2005 is furnished herewith as Exhibit No. 99.1 to this Report, and shall not be deemed filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act.
 
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
The following exhibit is included herewith:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
HARTFORD, Conn., April 20, 2005  United Technologies Corp. (NYSE:UTX) today reported first quarter 2005 earnings per share increased 19 percent to $1.28 compared with the year ago first quarter. Consolidated revenues increased 9 percent to $9.4 billion, reflecting six points of organic growth and contribution from the Linde commercial refrigeration business.
 
"This is an exceptional start to 2005 and gives us confidence to raise our full year earnings outlook accordingly. We now expect full year earnings growth of 12 to 16 percent, or $5.90 to $6.15 per share on a pre-split basis. With Kidde now closed we see revenues of approximately $43 billion for the year," said Chairman and Chief Executive Officer George David.
 
UTC announced at its Annual Meeting last week a two-for-one stock split, effective June 10, 2005.
 
First quarter net income increased $100 million to $651 million, including stock option expense in both years. Cash flow from operations was $846 million, including $65 million in voluntary pension contributions. After capital expenditures of $152 million, cash flow again exceeded net income in the quarter.
 
"Double digit profit growth at Otis, Pratt & Whitney, Sikorsky, and UTC Fire & Security fueled margin expansion in the quarter," said David. "The businesses are executing well, overcoming $100 million in higher commodity costs in the quarter while delivering strong cash flow. With a good economic environment worldwide, solid organic growth, and the recent addition of Kidde, we see continued momentum across the company. UTC is in great shape," David added.
 
First quarter results include $50 million of restructuring costs and a smaller gain from the sale of an equity security. Restructuring costs, including approximately $100 million of additional trailing costs from previously announced actions, are expected to exceed favorable items for the year.
 
First quarter 2004 results included a $.06 per share charge at Pratt & Whitney for collaboration accounting litigation dating from more than ten years ago.
 
Foreign currency translation added $.03 to earnings per share in the quarter.
 
The company also affirmed guidance for 2005 cash flow from operations less capital expenditures equal to net income before potential voluntary contributions of $500 million to pension plans.
 
The accompanying tables include information integral to assessing the company's financial position, operating performance and cash flow.
 
United Technologies Corp., based in Hartford, Connecticut, is a diversified company that provides a broad range of high technology products and support services to the building systems and aerospace industries.
 
This release is supplemented by presentation materials that are available on UTC's website at www.utc.com, and includes "forward looking statements" concerning expected revenues, earnings, cash flow and other matters that are
subject to risks and uncertainties. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated or implied in forward looking statements include the health of the global economy; strength of end market demand in building construction and in both the commercial and defense segments of the aerospace industry; fluctuation in commodity prices, interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and the impact of weather conditions; and company specific items including the availability and impact of acquisitions, the rate and ability to effectively integrate these acquired businesses, the ability to achieve cost reductions at planned levels, and the outcome of legal proceedings. For information identifying other important economic, political, regulatory, legal, technological, competitive and other uncertainties, see UTC's SEC filings as submitted from time to time, including but not limited to, the information in the "Business" section of UTC's Annual Report on Form 10-K, the information included in UTC's 10-K and 10-Q Reports under the heading "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations", and the information included in Current Reports on Form 8-K. # # #
United Technologies Corporation
 
Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations
 
 
As described on the following pages, consolidated results for the quarters ended March 31, 2005 and 2004 include restructuring and related charges and favorable items.
United Technologies Corporation
Segment Revenues and Operating Profit
 
 
As described on the following page, consolidated results for the quarters ended March 31, 2005 and 2004 include restructuring and related charges and favorable items.
United Technologies Corporation
 
Consolidated Operating Profit
 
Consolidated operating profit for the quarters ended March 31, 2005 and 2004 includes restructuring and related charges as follows:
 
 
Consolidated results for the quarters ended March 31, 2005 and 2004 include the following favorable items:
 
2005
 
 
2004
 
United Technologies Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet
 
United Technologies Corporation
Condensed Statement of Cash Flows
 
United Technologies Corporation
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements
 
 
 
 


