FILE:UTX/UTX-8K-20050720081402.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2Financial Information
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On July 20, 2005, United Technologies Corporation issued a press release announcing its second quarter 2005 results.
 
The press release issued July 20, 2005 is furnished herewith as Exhibit No. 99.1 to this Report, and shall not be deemed filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act.
 
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
The following exhibit is included herewith:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
HARTFORD, Conn., July 20, 2005  United Technologies Corp. (NYSE:UTX) today reported second quarter 2005 earnings per share increased 17 percent to $0.95 compared with the year ago second quarter. Consolidated revenues increased 16 percent to $11.2 billion, including 6 percent organic growth and contributions from the Linde commercial refrigeration and Kidde acquisitions.
 
As anticipated, second quarter results include favorable income tax and interest income adjustments related principally to 1994-1999 U.S. federal tax audits and a non-cash investment gain on shares held in SNECMA. UTC recorded $70 million of restructuring costs in the quarter, and the net impact of these adjustments and costs contributed $0.09 to earnings per share. UTC expects second half costs for restructuring to equal or exceed this $0.09 per share net favorable impact. In the year ago second quarter, favorable items exceeded costs for restructuring by $0.07 per share on a split adjusted basis and were more than offset with additional restructuring costs in the second half.
 
"This is another strong quarter for UTC," said Chairman and Chief Executive Officer George David. "We had solid revenue and double digit operating profit improvements in 5 of our 6 businesses. Carrier's operating profit was down slightly in the quarter as a result of weaker North American and European residential HVAC markets and continued commodity cost pressures."
 
"Following this solid quarter and first half, we're tightening our earnings guidance and raising our cash outlook accordingly. Earnings per share should grow 14 to 16 percent in the range of $3.00-$3.07 for the year. Cash flow from operations less capital expenditures should equal net income, including voluntary cash pension contributions of $500 million. The businesses are in great shape," David added.
Cash flow from operations of $1.188 billion in the quarter included $100 million in voluntary cash pension contributions and, after capital expenditures of $183 million, exceeded net income.
 
Share repurchase in the quarter was $260 million, and $375 million for the first half. UTC expects to repurchase approximately $1 billion of common stock for the year, similar to last year's level and an increase from prior expectation of $600 million.
 
Year to date earnings per share increased 18 percent to $1.59 on revenue growth of 13 percent. Net income grew 19 percent to $1.6 billion. First half cash flow from operations of $2.0 billion includes $165 million in voluntary cash pension contributions and, after capital expenditures of $335 million, exceeded net income.
 
The accompanying tables include information integral to assessing the company's financial position, operating performance and cash flow.
 
United Technologies Corp., based in Hartford, Connecticut, is a diversified company that provides a broad range of high technology products and support services to the building systems and aerospace industries.
 
This release is supplemented by presentation materials that are available on UTC's website at www.utc.com, and includes "forward looking statements" concerning expected revenues, earnings, cash flow and other matters that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated or implied in forward looking statements include the health of the global economy; strength of end market demand in building construction and in both the commercial and defense segments of the aerospace industry; fluctuation in commodity prices, interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and the impact of weather conditions; and company specific items including the availability and impact of acquisitions, the rate and ability to effectively integrate these acquired businesses, the ability to achieve cost reductions at planned levels, and the outcome of legal proceedings. For information identifying other important economic, political, regulatory, legal, technological, competitive and other uncertainties, see UTC's SEC filings as submitted from time to time, including but not limited to, the information in the "Business" section of UTC's Annual Report on Form 10-K, the information included in UTC's 10-K and 10-Q Reports under the heading "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations", and the information included in Current Reports on Form 8-K.
 
United Technologies Corporation
 
Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations
 
 
As described on the following pages, consolidated results for the quarters and six months ended June 30, 2005 and 2004 include restructuring and related charges and non-recurring items.
United Technologies Corporation
 
Segment Revenues and Operating Profit
 
 
As described on the following pages, consolidated results for the quarters and six months ended June 30, 2005 and 2004 include restructuring and related charges and non-recurring items.
United Technologies Corporation
 
Consolidated Operating Profit
 
Consolidated operating profit for the quarters and six months ended June 30, 2005 and 2004 includes restructuring and related charges as follows:
 
 
Consolidated results for the quarters and six months ended June 30, 2005 and 2004 include the following non-recurring items:
 
2005
 
Q2
 
 
 
In the second quarter, the net impact of the above favorable items ($0.14 per share), together with $70 million of pre-tax restructuring and related charges ($0.05 per share), contributed $0.09 to earnings per share.
Q1
 
 
2004
 
Q2
 
 
 
In the second quarter, the net impact of the above favorable items, together with $156 million of pre-tax restructuring and related charges, contributed $0.07 to earnings per share on a post-split basis.
 
Q1
 
United Technologies Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet
 
United Technologies Corporation
Condensed Statement of Cash Flows
 
United Technologies Corporation
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements
 
 
 
 


