FILE:UTX/UTX-8K-20060419073934.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2Financial Information
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On April 19, 2006, United Technologies Corporation issued a press release announcing its first quarter 2006 results.
The press release issued April 19, 2006 is furnished herewith as Exhibit No. 99.1 to this Report, and shall not be deemed filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act.
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
The following exhibit is included herewith:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99.1
HARTFORD, Conn., April 19, 2006  United Technologies Corp. (NYSE:UTX) today reported first quarter 2006 earnings per share increased 19 percent to $0.76 compared with the year ago first quarter. Consolidated revenues for the quarter increased 13 percent to $10.6 billion, reflecting organic growth of 9 percent and the impact of 2005 acquisitions, primarily Kidde.
"This is a great start to 2006 and supports increasing our full year earnings outlook. We now expect earnings per share in a range of $3.50 to $3.60 for the year, up from the prior range of $3.40 to $3.55. Given the organic growth in the quarter and current backlogs, revenues for the year should be in the range of $46 billion." said UTC Chairman and Chief Executive Officer George David. "We confirm expectations for cash flow after capital expenditures equal to net income for the year," he added.
First quarter net income increased 18 percent to $768 million. In the quarter, foreign currency translation reduced earnings by $0.02 per share and revenues by 2 percent.
"Revenues grew organically in the quarter at 9 percent in spite of lower revenues at Sikorsky due to the strike which has now been settled. Cost reductions and productivity continued to fuel margin expansions at Carrier and UTC Fire & Security. Overcoming the adverse impacts of the Sikorsky strike, stronger dollar and R&D calendarization, this is as good a quarter as we have seen in a long time," David said.
Cash flow from operations was $975 million and, after capital expenditures of $201 million, slightly exceeded net income for the quarter. Share repurchase in the quarter was $375 million, on track with share repurchase guidance of $1.5 billion for the year.
First quarter results include restructuring costs of $31 million offset by an equal gain on the sale of marketable securities. Additional favorable items are anticipated in 2006 which will be used to offset trailing costs from prior restructuring actions as well as to fund potential new actions initiated throughout the year. Total restructuring for 2006 should equal or exceed one time favorable items.
The accompanying tables include information integral to assessing the company's financial position, operating performance, and cash flow.
United Technologies Corp., based in Hartford, Connecticut, is a diversified company that provides a broad range of high technology products and support services to the building systems and aerospace industries.
This release is supplemented by presentation materials that are available on UTC's website at www.utc.com, and includes "forward looking statements" concerning expected revenue, earnings, cash flow and other matters that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated or implied in forward looking statements include the health of the global economy; strength of end market demand in building construction and in both the commercial and defense segments of the aerospace industry; fluctuation in commodity prices, interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and the impact of weather conditions; and company specific items including the availability and impact of acquisitions, the rate and ability to effectively integrate these acquired businesses, the ability to achieve cost reductions at planned levels, and the outcome of legal proceedings. For information identifying other important economic, political, regulatory, legal, technological, competitive and other uncertainties, see UTC's SEC filings as submitted from time to time, including but not limited to, the information included in UTC's 10-K and 10-Q Reports under the headings "Business", "Risk Factors", "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and "Cautionary Note Concerning Factors that May Affect Future Results", as well as the information included in UTC's Current Reports on Form 8-K.
United Technologies Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations
 
As described on the following pages, consolidated results for the quarters ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 include restructuring and related charges and non-recurring items.
See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
United Technologies Corporation
Segment Revenues and Operating Profit
 
As described on the following pages, consolidated results for the quarters ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 include restructuring and related charges and non-recurring items.
United Technologies Corporation
Consolidated Operating Profit
Consolidated operating profit for the quarters ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 includes restructuring and related charges as follows:
 
Consolidated results for the quarters ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 include the following non-recurring items:
2006
Q1
 
 
2005
Q1
 
United Technologies Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet
 
United Technologies Corporation
Condensed Statement of Cash Flows
 
United Technologies Corporation
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements
 
 
 


