FILE:UTX/UTX-8K-20061206161936.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Section 8Other Events
Item 8.01. Other Events
Attached as Exhibit 100 to this report are the following materials from United Technologies Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, filed on February 9, 2006, formatted in XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting Language): (i) the information contained in Items 5 through 9B of Part II, (ii) Exhibit 12, (iii) Exhibit 31, and (iv) Exhibit 32. Users of this data are advised pursuant to Rule 401 of Regulation S-T that the information contained in the XBRL documents is unaudited and these are not the official publicly filed financial statements of United Technologies Corporation. The purpose of submitting these XBRL formatted documents is to test the related format and technology and, as a result, investors should continue to rely on the official filed version of the furnished documents and not rely on this information in making investment decisions.
In accordance with Rule 402 of Regulation S-T, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the Exhibits, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
The following exhibits are included herewith:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
To the Board of Directors and Shareowners of United Technologies Corporation:
We have examined the accompanying XBRL-Related Documents of United Technologies Corporation (the "Corporation"), presented as Exhibit 100 to the Corporation's Current Report on Form 8-K, which reflect the data included in Part II, Items 5, 6, 7, 7A, 8, 9, 9A and 9B and Exhibits 12, 31 and 32 of the Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005. The Corporation's management is responsible for the XBRL-Related Documents. Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our examination.
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the related consolidated statements of operations, of cash flows and of changes in shareowners' equity for the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005, management's assessment of the effectiveness of the Corporation's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005 and the effectiveness of the Corporation's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, based on criteria established in issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), and in our report dated February 9, 2006, we expressed unqualified opinions thereon. We were not engaged to and did not conduct an audit (or review) of the information contained in Part II, Items 5, 6, 7, 7A, 9, 9A, 9B and Exhibits 12, 31 and 32 of the Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, the objective of which would have been the expression of an opinion (or limited assurance) on such aforementioned information. Accordingly, we do not express an opinion or any other assurance on such aforementioned information.
Internal Control - Integrated Framework
Our examination of the XBRL-Related Documents was conducted in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) and, accordingly, included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the XBRL-Related Documents. Our examination also included evaluating the XBRL-Related Documents for conformity with the applicable XBRL taxonomies and specifications and the content and format requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission. We believe that our examination provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the XBRL-Related Documents of United Technologies Corporation referred to above accurately reflect, in all material respects, the data included in Part II, Items 5, 6, 7, 7A, 8, 9, 9A and 9B and Exhibits 12, 31 and 32 of the Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, in conformity with the US GAAP - Commercial and Industrial Taxonomy, US Financial Reporting - Management's Discussion and Analysis Taxonomy, US Financial Reporting - Accountant's Report Taxonomy, US Financial Reporting - SEC Certifications Taxonomy, extensions specific to United Technologies Corporation (as included in Exhibit EX-100.SCH), and the XBRL Specifications (Version 2.1).
/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Hartford, Connecticut
December 6, 2006








