FILE:UTX/UTX-8K-20061017074906.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2Financial Information
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On October 17, 2006, United Technologies Corporation issued a press release announcing its third quarter 2006 results.
The press release issued October 17, 2006 is furnished herewith as Exhibit No. 99 to this Report, and shall not be deemed filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act.
Section 8Other Events
Item 8.01. Other Events
Attached as Exhibit 100 to this report are the following materials from United Technologies Corporation's press release for the quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2006, filed herewith, formatted in XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting Language): (i) Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations, (ii) Segment Revenues and Operating Profit, (iii) Consolidated Operating Profit  Restructuring and Related Charges, (iv) Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet, and (v) Condensed Statement of Cash Flows. Users of this data are advised pursuant to Rule 401 of Regulation S-T that the information contained in the XBRL documents is unaudited and these are not the official publicly filed financial statements of United Technologies Corporation. The purpose of submitting these XBRL formatted documents is to test the related format and technology and, as a result, investors should continue to rely on the official filed version of the furnished documents and not rely on this information in making investment decisions.
In accordance with Rule 402 of Regulation S-T, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 100, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
The following exhibits are included herewith:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99
HARTFORD, Conn., October 17, 2006  United Technologies Corp. (NYSE: UTX) today reported third quarter 2006 earnings per share of $0.99 and net income of $996 million, up 22 and 21 percent respectively from the year ago quarter. Revenues for the quarter increased 12 percent to $12.2 billion and included 8 percent organic growth. Cash flow from operations was $1.36 billion and, after capital expenditures of $184 million, exceeded net income.
"Third quarter results overall were exceptional and reflect the balance in UTC's businesses. Commercial aerospace volumes and margins were up significantly at Pratt and Hamilton Sundstrand, along with solid profit growth at UTC Fire & Security and Otis. These gains more than offset weaker market conditions in two of Carrier's businesses and production challenges at Sikorsky on materially higher volumes," said UTC Chairman and Chief Executive Officer George David.
"Given results in the quarter and year-to-date, we are increasing UTC's full year earnings per share guidance to $3.65-$3.69, up 17-18 percent from 2005 results excluding the impact of the FIN 47 accounting change. The prior 2006 guidance range was $3.55-$3.65, up comparably 14-17 percent. We'll be reviewing our 2007 outlook at our usual December investor meeting and will be looking closely at market developments in Carrier's North American Residential and container refrigeration businesses in the interim. Both are important contributors to Carrier's results overall and both markets turned down in the third quarter. However, we still anticipate another solid growth year across UTC in 2007," David continued.
"Cash flow from operations less capital expenditures in the quarter was 118 percent of net income, and we anticipate this cash flow performance for the year will be at UTC's usual standard of exceeding net income," David added.
Share repurchase in the quarter was $580 million and $1.33 billion for the first nine months, on track with guidance of $2.0 billion for the year.
As anticipated by investors, third quarter restructuring costs of $93 million exceeded a $60 million gain on divestiture of a manufacturing joint venture.
The accompanying tables include information integral to assessing the company's financial position, operating performance, and cash flow.
United Technologies Corp., based in Hartford, Connecticut, is a diversified company that provides a broad range of high technology products and support services to the building systems and aerospace industries.
This release is supplemented by presentation materials that are available on UTC's website at
www.utc.com
, and includes "forward looking statements" concerning expected revenue, earnings, cash flow, share repurchases, restructuring and other matters that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated or implied in forward looking statements include the health of the global economy; strength of end market demand in building construction and in both the commercial and defense segments of the aerospace industry; fluctuation in commodity prices, interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and the impact of weather conditions; and company specific items including the availability and impact of acquisitions; the rate and ability to effectively integrate these acquired businesses; the ability to achieve cost reductions at planned levels; challenges in the design, development, production and support of advanced technologies and new products and services; delays and disruption in delivery of materials and services from suppliers; labor disputes; and the outcome of legal proceedings. For information identifying other important economic, political, regulatory, legal, technological, competitive and other uncertainties, see UTC's SEC filings as submitted from time to time, including but not limited to, the information included in UTC's 10-K and 10-Q Reports under the headings "Business", "Risk Factors", "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and "Cautionary Note Concerning Factors that May Affect Future Results", as well as the information included in UTC's Current Reports on Form 8-K.
UTC-IR
United Technologies Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations
 
As described on the following pages, consolidated results for the quarters and nine months ended September 30, 2006 and 2005 include restructuring and related charges and non-recurring items.
United Technologies Corporation
Segment Revenues and Operating Profit
 
As described on the following pages, consolidated results for the quarters and nine months ended September 30, 2006 and 2005 include restructuring and related charges and non-recurring items.
United Technologies Corporation
Consolidated Operating Profit
Consolidated operating profit for the quarters and nine months ended September 30, 2006 and 2005 includes restructuring and related charges as follows:
 
Consolidated results for the quarters and nine months ended September 30, 2006 and 2005 include the following non-recurring items:
2006
Q3
Q2
 
 
In the second quarter, the net impact of the above favorable items ($0.13 per share), together with approximately $80 million of pre-tax restructuring and related charges ($0.06 per share), contributed $0.07 to earnings per share.
Q1
 
2005
Q2
 
In the second quarter, the net impact of the above favorable items ($0.14 per share), together with $70 million of pre-tax restructuring and related charges ($0.05 per share), contributed $0.09 to earnings per share.
Q1
United Technologies Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet
 
United Technologies Corporation
Condensed Statement of Cash Flows
 
United Technologies Corporation
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements
 
 








