FILE:UTX/UTX-8K-20061013174434.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Section 1  Registrant's Business and Operations
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
The United Technologies Corporation 2005 Long Term Incentive Plan (the "2005 LTIP"), approved by shareholders in April 2005, provides for various forms of awards to directors, executive officers and employees of United Technologies Corporation (the "Company") based on the value of shares of Common Stock of the Company, including awards that vest solely on the basis of performance targets.
On October 11, 2006, the Committee on Compensation & Executive Development (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors of the Company approved performance targets for Performance Share Units to be awarded in 2007 under the 2005 LTIP. Performance Share Units awarded in 2007 will vest only if pre-established three year targets are achieved for the following performance measures: the compound annual growth rate in the Company's diluted earnings per share and the Company's total shareowner return compared to other companies included in the S&P 500. Actual award statements will specify the applicable performance targets, the minimum performance required for vesting, the range of vesting relative to measured performance and the relative weighting of each target.
The form of award agreement for Performance Share Units and Stock Appreciation Rights to be awarded in 2007 under the 2005 LTIP is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and is hereby incorporated by reference.
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
Your 2007 Long Term Incentive Award
Performance. Results. Rewards.
 
 
Grant Date:
 
 
About This Statement
 
This personalized statement shows your 2007 Award under United Technologies Corporation's Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP). On the reverse side of this statement, you will find highlights of how the LTIP works. The award shown in this statement is subject to the terms and conditions of the LTIP.
 
 
Your 2007 Long Term Incentive Plan Award
 
 
    *PSUs are subject to performance-based vesting criteria
 
 
    
Measurement Period: January 1, 2007 through December 31, 2009
 
 
The Your Stock Awards Web Site
 
Remember that you can view your UTC stock awards online at the Web site. Through this Web site, you can obtain comprehensive information about the LTIP, including the Plan Document, Plan Prospectus, and the Schedules of Terms applicable to your award. There are also powerful modeling tools for all your UTC stock awards. You can access the Web site as follows:
Your Stock Awards
Your Stock Awards
 
 
 
 
What You Need to Do
 
Please sign and date the portion of this statement below the perforation and return it to your local Human Resources representative for delivery to:
 
Stock Plan Administrator
United Technologies Corporation
1 Financial Plaza, MS 504
Hartford, CT 06101
 
 
Grant Date:
 
    *PSUs are subject to performance-based vesting criteria
 
The award shown in this statement is subject to the terms and conditions of United Technologies Corporation's Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP). I acknowledge this statement of award. I accept this award subject to the 2007 Schedules of Terms and the LTIP. These documents and the Plan Prospectus are available at the Web site.
Your Stock Awards
 
Signed: Date:
                                                                                                  
                                                             
Your 2007 Long Term Incentive Award
Performance. Results. Rewards.
 
Stock Appreciation Rights (SARs)
 
How Do SARs Work?
 
 
Performance Share Units (PSUs)
 
How Do PSUs Work?
 
 
 
 
 
Please sign and date the portion of this statement below the perforation and return it to your local Human Resources representative for delivery to:
 


