FILE:UTX/UTX-8K-20071017080256.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2Financial Information
 
On October 17, 2007, United Technologies Corporation issued a press release announcing its third quarter 2007 results.
The press release issued October 17, 2007 is furnished herewith as Exhibit No. 99 to this Report, and shall not be deemed filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act.
Section 8Other Events
 
Attached as Exhibit 100 to this report are the following materials from United Technologies Corporation's press release for the quarter ended September 30, 2007, filed herewith, formatted in XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting Language): (i) Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations, (ii) Segment Revenues and Operating Profit, (iii) Consolidated Operating Profit  Restructuring and Related Charges, (iv) Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet, and (v) Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. Users of this data are advised pursuant to Rule 401 of Regulation S-T that the information contained in the XBRL documents is unaudited and these are not the official publicly filed financial statements of United Technologies Corporation. The purpose of submitting these XBRL formatted documents is to test the related format and technology and, as a result, investors should continue to rely on the official filed version of the furnished documents and not rely on this information in making investment decisions.
In accordance with Rule 402 of Regulation S-T, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 100, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
The following exhibits are included herewith:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99
HARTFORD, Conn., October 17, 2007  United Technologies Corp. (NYSE:UTX) today reported third quarter 2007 earnings per share of $1.21 and net income of $1.20 billion, up 22 percent and 20 percent, respectively, over the year ago quarter. Revenues for the quarter increased 14 percent to $13.9 billion and included 9 percent organic growth. Foreign currency translation and acquisitions accounted for the remainder of the revenue growth. Cash flow from operations was $1.38 billion and capital expenditures were $238 million.
The quarter included a $0.04 per share benefit of net tax related items in excess of restructuring costs while the year ago period included net costs of $0.02 per share as a result of restructuring in excess of one time gains. Excluding restructuring/gains in both periods, earnings per share grew 16 percent year over year. UTC expects recently enacted international tax law changes to negatively impact the fourth quarter tax rate and offset the $0.04 per share third quarter benefit.
"This was another solid quarter for UTC. Notably, organic revenue growth came in at 9 percent, following 10 percent growth in each of the first two quarters of 2007. In addition, five of our six business segments grew profits at double digit rates as markets in general remain healthy and cost reductions continue. While market conditions in Carrier's North American residential business are clearly challenging, its other three global businesses delivered double digit earnings growth," said UTC Chairman and Chief Executive Officer George David.
"As we close in on the year, we now see EPS in the range of $4.22$4.25, or 14 percent growth and at the top end of our prior range of $4.15$4.25. Given the organic revenue growth year to date and current backlogs, we now expect revenues for the year in the range of $54 billion, up from our previous outlook of $53 billion. Momentum in the businesses is good, with the most recent evidence being the selection of Pratt & Whitney's Geared Turbofan engine for the Mitsubishi Regional Jet. As usual, we'll be reviewing the 2008 outlook at our December investor meeting and anticipate delivering another solid outlook then," David said.
"Cash flow from operations less capital expenditures in the quarter was solid, even with the inventory challenges we face as a result of another quarter of strong organic revenue growth. We continue to target cash flow performance for the year in the range of net income," David added.
Share repurchase in the quarter was $500 million and $1.5 billion for the first nine months, on track with guidance of $2.0 billion for the year.
The accompanying tables include information integral to assessing the company's financial position, operating performance, and cash flow.
United Technologies Corp., based in Hartford, Connecticut, is a diversified company that provides a broad range of high technology products and support services to the building systems and aerospace industries.
This release is supplemented by presentation materials that are available on UTC's website at www.utc.com, and includes "forward looking statements" concerning expected revenue, earnings, cash flow, share repurchases, restructuring and other matters that are subject to risks and uncertainties. These statements often contain words such as "expect", "anticipate", "plan", "estimate", "believe", "will", "see", "guidance" and similar terms. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated or implied in forward looking statements include the health of the global economy; strength of end market demand in construction and in both the commercial and defense segments of the aerospace industry; fluctuation in commodity prices, interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and the impact of weather conditions; and company specific items including the availability and impact of acquisitions; the rate and ability to effectively integrate these acquired businesses; the ability to achieve cost reductions at planned levels; challenges in the design, development, production and support of advanced technologies and new products and services; delays and disruption in delivery of materials and services from suppliers; labor disputes; and the outcome of legal proceedings. The level of share repurchases may vary depending on the level of other investing activities. For information identifying other important economic, political, regulatory, legal, technological, competitive and other uncertainties, see UTC's SEC filings as submitted from time to time, including but
not limited to, the information included in UTC's 10-K and 10-Q Reports under the headings "Business", "Risk Factors", "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and "Cautionary Note Concerning Factors that May Affect Future Results", as well as the information included in UTC's Current Reports on Form 8-K.
IR-UTC
United Technologies Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations
 
As described on the following pages, consolidated results for the quarters and nine months ended September 30, 2007 and 2006 include restructuring and related charges and non-recurring items.
See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
United Technologies Corporation
Segment Revenues and Operating Profit
 
As described on the following pages, consolidated results for the quarters and nine months ended September 30, 2007 and 2006 include restructuring and related charges and non-recurring items.
United Technologies Corporation
Restructuring and Related Charges
Consolidated operating profit for the quarters and nine months ended September 30, 2007 and 2006 includes restructuring and related charges as follows:
 
Consolidated results for the quarters and nine months ended September 30, 2007 and 2006 include the following non-recurring items:
Q3 - 2007
 
 
Q1 - 2007
 
 
 
 
In the first quarter, the net impact of the above items ($0.05 per share), together with $35 million of pre-tax restructuring and related charges ($0.02 per share), had a $0.07 adverse impact to earnings per share.
Q3 - 2006
 
Q2 - 2006
 
 
 
In the second quarter, the net impact of the above favorable items ($0.13 per share), together with approximately $80 million of pre-tax restructuring and related charges ($0.06 per share), contributed $0.07 to earnings per share.
Q1 - 2006
 
 
United Technologies Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet
 
United Technologies Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
 
United Technologies Corporation
Free Cash Flow Reconciliation
 
Free cash flow, which represents cash flow from operations less capital expenditures, is the principal cash performance measure used by the Company. Management believes free cash flow provides a relevant measure of liquidity and a useful basis for assessing the Corporation's ability to fund its activities, including the financing of acquisitions, debt service, repurchases of the Corporation's Common Stock and distribution of earnings to shareholders. Others that use the term free cash flow may calculate it differently. The reconciliation of net cash flow provided by operating activities prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles to free cash flow is above.
United Technologies Corporation
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements
 
 
 








