FILE:UTX/UTX-8K-20070718080933.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2Financial Information
 
On July 18, 2007, United Technologies Corporation issued a press release announcing its second quarter 2007 results.
The press release issued July 18, 2007 is furnished herewith as Exhibit No. 99.1 to this Report, and shall not be deemed filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act.
Section 8Other Events
 
Attached as Exhibit 100 to this report are the following materials from United Technologies Corporation's press release for the quarter ended June 30, 2007, filed herewith, formatted in XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting Language): (i) Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations, (ii) Segment Revenues and Operating Profit, (iii) Restructuring and Related Charges, (iv) Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet, and (v) Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. Users of this data are advised pursuant to Rule 401 of Regulation S-T that the information contained in the XBRL documents is unaudited and these are not the official publicly filed financial statements of United Technologies Corporation. The purpose of submitting these XBRL formatted documents is to test the related format and technology and, as a result, investors should continue to rely on the official filed version of the furnished documents and not rely on this information in making investment decisions.
In accordance with Rule 402 of Regulation S-T, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 100, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits.
The following exhibits are included herewith:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99.1
HARTFORD, Conn., July 18, 2007  United Technologies Corp. (NYSE:UTX) today reported second quarter 2007 earnings per share of $1.16 and net income of $1.15 billion, up 6 percent and 4 percent, respectively, over the year ago quarter. In 2006, results included gains in excess of restructuring of $0.07 per share. Cash flow from operations was $1.45 billion and, after capital expenditures of $251 million, exceeded net income.
Second quarter revenues increased 13 percent to $13.9 billion, on 10 percent organic growth with continuing strength in commercial aerospace and commercial construction markets as well as accelerating shipments at Sikorsky. Foreign currency translation accounted for three points of the revenue growth and $0.03 of earnings per share. The current period also included $0.02 per share of restructuring costs and no offsetting gains. Excluding restructuring/gains in both periods, earnings per share grew 16% year over year.
"This was yet another strong quarter for UTC," said George David, UTC's Chairman and CEO. "Organic revenue growth for the Corporation has been 7 percent or greater in each of the last four years and higher recently with 9 percent in 2006 and 10 percent year to date in 2007. Solid markets worldwide in commercial aviation and commercial construction coupled with the successes of a wide range of new UTC products are doing this, and we see these conditions continuing over the balance of the year and into 2008. Accordingly, we are raising UTC revenues guidance for the year to $53 billion from $51 billion and earnings per share guidance to a range of $4.15-4.25 from $4.05-4.20. Earnings per share growth at revised guidance is 12-15 percent.
"The single soft spot in our markets remains the North American Residential HVAC business, reflecting the continuing U.S. housing downturn. Profitability at Carrier's North American Residential business accordingly was down in the quarter. However, balance works at Carrier as at UTC overall, and strength in commercial markets worldwide and residential markets internationally drove a solid double digit increase in Carrier's operating income in the quarter. Other notable operating performance in the quarter included Sikorsky shipments of 49 large helicopters and operating income of $87 million, increasing our confidence in Sikorsky's full year guidance.
"Cash flow from operations less capital expenditures in the quarter was 104 percent of net income, reflecting primarily improved collections and customer advances. For the full year, we continue to expect cash flow from operations less capital expenditures to exceed net income, UTC's usual standard," David added.
Share repurchase in the quarter was $500 million, with year to date repurchases equaling $1 billion. Acquisition guidance remains unchanged at $2 billion for the year.
The accompanying tables include information integral to assessing the company's financial position, operating performance, and cash flow.
United Technologies Corp., based in Hartford, Connecticut, is a diversified company providing high technology products and services to the building and aerospace industries. Additional information as well as a Web cast is available on the Internet at http://www.utc.com.
This release includes "forward-looking statements" concerning anticipated future financial performance, including expected revenues, earnings, cash flow, acquisitions and share repurchase amounts. These statements often contain words such as "expect", "anticipate", "plan", "estimate", "believe", "will", "see", "guidance" and similar terms. These matters are subject to risks and uncertainties. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated or implied in forward looking statements include the health of the global economy; strength of end market demand in building construction and in both the commercial and defense segments of the aerospace industry; fluctuation in commodity prices, interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and the impact of weather conditions; and company-specific factors including the availability and impact of acquisitions; the rate and ability to effectively integrate these acquired businesses; the ability to achieve cost reductions at planned levels; challenges in the design, development, production and support of advanced technologies and new products and services; delays and disruption in delivery of materials and services from suppliers; labor disputes; and the outcome of legal proceedings. The level of share repurchases may vary depending on the level of other investing activities. For information identifying other important economic, political, regulatory, legal, technological, competitive and other
uncertainties, see UTC's SEC filings as submitted from time to time, including but not limited to, the information included in UTC's 10-K and 10-Q Reports under the headings "Business," "Risk Factors," "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and "Cautionary Note Concerning Factors that May Affect Future Results," as well as the information included in UTC's Current Reports on Form 8-K.
UTC-IR
United Technologies Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations
 
As described on the following pages, consolidated results for the quarters and six months ended June 30, 2007 and 2006 include restructuring and related charges and non-recurring items.
See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
United Technologies Corporation
Segment Revenues and Operating Profit
 
As described on the following pages, consolidated results for the quarters and six months ended June 30, 2007 and 2006 include restructuring and related charges and non-recurring items.
United Technologies Corporation
Restructuring and Related Charges
Consolidated operating profit for the quarters and six months ended June 30, 2007 and 2006 includes restructuring and related charges as follows:
 
Consolidated results for the quarters and six months ended June 30, 2007 and 2006 include the following non-recurring items:
Q12007
 
 
 
 
In the first quarter, the net impact of the above items ($0.05 per share), together with $35 million of pre-tax restructuring and related charges ($0.02 per share), had a $0.07 adverse impact to earnings per share.
Q22006
 
 
In the second quarter, the net impact of the above favorable items ($0.13 per share), together with approximately $80 million of pre-tax restructuring and related charges ($0.06 per share), contributed $0.07 to earnings per share.
Q12006
 
 
United Technologies Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet
 
United Technologies Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
 
United Technologies Corporation
Free Cash Flow Reconciliation
 
Free cash flow, which represents cash flow from operations less capital expenditures, is the principal cash performance measure used by the Company. Management believes free cash flow provides a relevant measure of liquidity and a useful basis for assessing the Corporation's ability to fund its activities, including the financing of acquisitions, debt service, repurchases of the Corporation's Common Stock and distribution of earnings to shareholders. Others that use the term free cash flow may calculate it differently. The reconciliation of net cash flow provided by operating activities prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles to free cash flow is above.
United Technologies Corporation
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements
 
 
 








