FILE:UTX/UTX-8K-20080915163248.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5Corporate Governance and Management.
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On September 10, 2008, United Technologies Corporation ("UTC") announced that effective as of that date, Gregory J. Hayes was elected Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. A copy of the press release announcing Mr. Hayes' election is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Mr. Hayes joined UTC in 1999 through the merger of Sundstrand Corp. with a subsidiary of UTC. He then became Vice President, Financial Planning & Analysis for UTC's Hamilton Sundstrand subsidiary. In 2003, UTC named Mr. Hayes Vice President and Controller, and in 2004 appointed him Vice President, Accounting and Controls, sharing the principal financial officer duties with James E. Geisler, who was appointed Vice President, Finance at that time as well. In 2006, UTC broadened Mr. Hayes' responsibilities to include UTC's Investor Relations organization. He is 47 years old.
Mr. Geisler has been named Vice President, Corporate Strategy & Planning. He will continue to head UTC's Corporate Strategy and Financial Planning & Analysis functions.
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01.Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
The following Exhibits are included herewith:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99.1
HARTFORD, Conn., Sept. 10, 2008  United Technologies Corp. (NYSE:UTX) today announced the election of Gregory J. Hayes as the corporation's Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, effective immediately.
Hayes, 47, will have global responsibility for UTC's Finance function. UTC business unit chief financial officers will report functionally to Hayes. Hayes also will direct communications and interactions with UTC's Board of Directors, Audit Committee and the broader investor community. He will continue to report to UTC President and Chief Executive Officer Louis Chnevert.
"Greg's strong performance, particularly over the last four years in the office of the CFO, has consistently demonstrated that he is exceptionally qualified to lead UTC's Finance function," Chnevert said. "He has become widely known and well regarded by Wall Street and our shareholder communities. I know he will continue to be a strong leader and an influential voice in setting UTC and business unit strategy and direction."
Hayes came to UTC through the 1999 merger with Sundstrand Corp., where he served as Vice President, Finance, for Sundstrand Aerospace. He then became Vice President, Financial Planning & Analysis, for Hamilton Sundstrand. In 2003, he was named UTC Vice President and Controller, and in 2004 was appointed to the office of the CFO as UTC Vice President, Accounting and Controls. In 2006, his responsibilities were broadened to include Investor Relations. Hayes earned a bachelor's degree in economics from Purdue University in 1982 and is a Certified Public Accountant.
"I am delighted to name Greg UTC's SVP and CFO. This is the right next step for UTC and for Greg. I have worked closely with Greg over the past several years and he has provided tremendous support to me as I've assumed the UTC President and CEO role," added Chnevert.
United Technologies Corp., based in Hartford, Connecticut, is a diversified company that provides a broad range of high technology products and support services to the building systems and aerospace industries.


