FILE:UTX/UTX-8K-20081010164657.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02.Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
 
On October 8, 2008, the Board of Directors of United Technologies Corporation (the "Company"), elected Edward A. Kangas as a director of the Company, effective as of December 9, 2008. The Board appointed Mr. Kangas to the Audit Committee and the Committee on Compensation and Executive Development. A copy of the Company's press release announcing Mr. Kangas' election is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
HARTFORD, Conn., Oct. 9, 2008  Edward A. Kangas, the former Global Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu, was elected to the United Technologies Corp. (NYSE:UTX) Board of Directors effective as of the next meeting of the board. He joins 12 other board members of whom 10 are independent.
Kangas, 64, served as Global Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu from 1989 to 2000. Under his leadership the firm's revenues grew to $11 billion in 2000 from $2 billion in 1989. He was one of the chief architects of the 1989 global combination of Deloitte Haskins & Sells and Touche Ross.
"Edward Kangas is widely known and respected for his many accomplishments not only at Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu but within the accounting profession and for his civic responsibilities," said UTC Chairman George David. "I am delighted to welcome him to UTC's board."
A Certified Public Accountant, Kangas holds a bachelor's degree and an MBA from the University of Kansas. He also serves on the boards of Eclipsys Corporation, Hovnanian Enterprises Inc., Intuit Inc., and Tenet Healthcare Corporation. At Tenet, Kangas has served as Non-Executive Chairman of the Board since July 2003.
United Technologies, based in Hartford, Conn., is a diversified company that provides high technology products and services to the building and aerospace industries.
UTC-IR


