FILE:UTX/UTX-8K-20080123074347.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2Financial Information
 
On January 23, 2008, United Technologies Corporation issued a press release announcing its fourth quarter 2007 results.
The press release issued January 23, 2008 is furnished herewith as Exhibit No. 99 to this Report, and shall not be deemed filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act.
Section 8Other Events
 
Attached as Exhibit 100 to this report are the following materials from United Technologies Corporation's press release for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2007, filed herewith, formatted in XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting Language): (i) Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations, (ii) Segment Revenues and Operating Profit, (iii) Consolidated Operating Profit  Restructuring and Related Charges, (iv) Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet, and (v) Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. Users of this data are advised pursuant to Rule 401 of Regulation S-T that the information contained in the XBRL documents is unaudited and these are not the official publicly filed financial statements of United Technologies Corporation. The purpose of submitting these XBRL formatted documents is to test the related format and technology and, as a result, investors should continue to rely on the official filed version of the furnished documents and not rely on this information in making investment decisions.
In accordance with Rule 402 of Regulation S-T, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 100, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits.
The following exhibits are included herewith:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99
HARTFORD, Conn., January 23, 2008  United Technologies Corp. (NYSE:UTX) today reported fourth quarter 2007 earnings per share of $1.08 and net income of $1.1 billion, up 24 percent and 23 percent, respectively. Consolidated revenues for the quarter increased 15 percent to $14.7 billion, including organic growth of 8 percent. Cash flow from operations was $2.0 billion and, after capital expenditures of $456 million, substantially exceeded fourth quarter net income.
Full year earnings per share of $4.27 and net income of $4.2 billion increased 15 and 13 percent, respectively, from 2006 results. Revenues increased 14 percent to $54.8 billion, including 9 points of organic growth, 3 points from foreign exchange, and 2 points from acquisitions. Full year cash flow from operations was $5.3 billion and capital expenditures were $1.2 billion.
"UTC had a powerful close to 2007 and expects continuing good performance in 2008. Although the U.S. economic outlook is mixed, UTC's balance across geographic and product markets should sustain yet another year of double digit earnings per share growth," said UTC Chairman and Chief Executive Officer George David.
"Organic growth was 9 percent for 2007, a fourth year in a row at comparable levels. Markets across the board were good for us with the single exception of North American Residential for Carrier. Commercial aerospace volumes for UTC in total grew organically at 11 percent, as did our commercial construction businesses combined in Otis and Carrier at 10 percent.
"In 2007, all six UTC businesses grew operating profits at double digit rates, and we expect the same in 2008. Even with the significant deterioration in its North American Residential market, Carrier grew its operating profit overall at 12 percent on strong performances in its three other global businesses. Accordingly, UTC confirms its prior guidance range for 2008 earnings per share of $4.65 to $4.85, up 9 percent to 14 percent, respectively.
 
"Cash flow from operations less capital expenditures reached 99 percent of net income in 2007 in spite of two large non recurring outflows in the first quarter totaling $500 million. Very strong fourth quarter performance made this a good cash flow year for UTC in spite of these one time items, and we anticipate being at our usual standard of cash flow exceeding net income again in 2008," David added.
Share repurchase in the quarter was $501 million and totaled $2.0 billion for the year. Acquisition spending, including debt assumed, was $2.3 billion for the year with $403 million in the fourth quarter. Debt to capital ended the year at 30 percent, lower than 2006.
Foreign currency translation increased fourth quarter revenues by 5 percent and earnings by $0.02 per share. Restructuring, tax related items, and other non recurring charges were $0.04 in excess of one time favorable items in the quarter. As previously disclosed, the year ago period included a $0.05 per share impact for restructuring charges in excess of one time favorable items.
Restructuring costs in the fourth quarter were $63 million, and in the year $166 million. Additional favorable items are anticipated in 2008 to offset trailing costs from previous restructuring actions and to fund new actions potentially initiated throughout the year.
The accompanying tables include information integral to assessing the company's financial position, operating performance, and cash flow.
United Technologies Corp., based in Hartford, Connecticut, is a diversified company that provides a broad range of high technology products and support services to the building systems and aerospace industries.
This release is supplemented by presentation materials that are available on UTC's website at www.utc.com, and includes "forward looking statements" concerning expected revenue, earnings, cash flow, share repurchases, restructuring and other
matters that are subject to risks and uncertainties. These statements often contain words such as "expect", "anticipate", "plan", "estimate", "believe", "will", "see", "guidance" and similar terms. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated or implied in forward looking statements include changes in the health of the global economy; strength of end market demand in construction and in both the commercial and defense segments of the aerospace industry; fluctuation in commodity prices, interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and the impact of weather conditions; as well as company specific items including the availability and impact of acquisitions; the rate and ability to effectively integrate these acquired businesses; the ability to achieve cost reductions at planned levels; challenges in the design, development, production and support of advanced technologies and new products and services; delays and disruption in delivery of materials and services from suppliers; labor disputes; and the outcome of legal proceedings. The level of share repurchases may vary depending on the level of other investing activities. For information identifying other important economic, political, regulatory, legal, technological, competitive and other uncertainties, see UTC's SEC filings as submitted from time to time, including but not limited to, the information included in UTC's 10-K and 10-Q Reports under the headings "Business", "Risk Factors", "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and "Cautionary Note Concerning Factors that May Affect Future Results", as well as the information included in UTC's Current Reports on Form 8-K.
IR-UTC
United Technologies Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations
 
As described on the following pages, consolidated results for the years and quarters ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 include non-recurring items, restructuring and related charges.
See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
United Technologies Corporation
Segment Revenues and Operating Profit
 
As described on the following pages, consolidated results for the years and quarters ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 include non-recurring items, restructuring and related charges.
United Technologies Corporation
Consolidated Operating Profit
Consolidated operating profit for the years and quarters ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 includes restructuring and related charges as follows:
 
Consolidated results for the years and quarters ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 include the following non-recurring items.
Q4 - 2007
: Segment results include a $57 million gain from the sale of Fincoil, an industrial cooling manufacturing business, and a $36 million charge on the settlement of litigation related to a furnace warranty matter.
Carrier
: Segment results include a $26 million gain from the sale of a non-core business.
Otis
: Charges for income tax adjustments of $49 million associated with, amongst other items, foreign tax matters including a change in non-U.S. tax laws.
Income Taxes
Q3 - 2007
: Approximately $28 million pretax interest adjustments related to the completion of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) examination of tax years 2000 through 2003.
Eliminations and Other
: Favorable income tax adjustment of approximately $50 million, related primarily to the completion of the IRS examination of tax years 2000 through 2003.
Income Taxes
Q1 - 2007
Segment results include an $84 million gain from the sale of land. The consolidated operating results include taxes related to the gain of approximately $29 million in addition to an approximately $27 million charge for the minority partner's interest in the gain. The resulting impact to consolidated net income is approximately $28 million.
Otis:
: Approximately $40 million gain at Pratt & Whitney from a contract termination.
Pratt & Whitney
: A $216 million loss recorded in connection with the European Union commission fine.
Eliminations and Other
: A $151 million gain from the sale of marketable securities.
Eliminations and Other
In the first quarter, the net impact of the above items ($0.05 per share), together with $35 million of pre-tax restructuring and related charges ($0.02 per share), had a $0.07 adverse impact to earnings per share.
Q3 - 2006
Approximately $60 million pretax gain realized on the sale of a partnership interest in Scroll Technologies, a North American manufacturer of compressors used primarily for heating, ventilating, and air-conditioning equipment.
Carrier:
Q2 - 2006
Approximately $80 million pretax gain related to the settlement of a claim by the Department of Defense regarding Pratt & Whitney's cost accounting practices for engine parts on commercial engine collaboration programs.
Pratt & Whitney:
: Approximately $60 million pretax interest income related to the final determination by the U.S. Congress Joint Committee on Taxation on a disputed issue in the IRS examination of tax years 1994 through 1999.
Eliminations and Other
: Favorable income tax adjustment of approximately $35 million, related to a determination by the U.S. Congress Joint Committee on Taxation on a disputed issue in the IRS examination of tax years 1994 through 1999.
Income Taxes
In the second quarter, the net impact of the above favorable items ($0.13 per share), together with approximately $80 million of pre-tax restructuring and related charges ($0.06 per share), contributed $0.07 to earnings per share.
Q1 - 2006
Approximately $25 million gain realized on the sale of a partnership interest in an engine program at Pratt Canada.
Pratt & Whitney:
Approximately $25 million gain from the sale of marketable securities.
Eliminations and Other:
United Technologies Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet
 
United Technologies Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
 
United Technologies Corporation
Free Cash Flow Reconciliation
 
Free cash flow, which represents cash flow from operations less capital expenditures, is the principal cash performance measure used by the Company. Management believes free cash flow provides a relevant measure of liquidity and a useful basis for assessing the Corporation's ability to fund its activities, including the financing of acquisitions, debt service, repurchases of the Corporation's Common Stock and distribution of earnings to shareholders. Others that use the term free cash flow may calculate it differently. The reconciliation of net cash flow provided by operating activities prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles to free cash flow is above.
United Technologies Corporation
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements
 
 
 








