FILE:UTX/UTX-8K-20090212163317.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5Corporate Governance and Management
 
(d) On February 9, 2009, the Board of Directors of United Technologies Corporation (the "Company"), elected Carlos M. Gutierrez as a director of the Company, effective as of March 11, 2009. The Board appointed Mr. Gutierrez to the Finance Committee and the Committee on Nominations and Governance. A copy of the Company's press release announcing the election of Mr. Gutierrez is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference.
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99.1
HARTFORD, Conn., Feb. 9, 2009  Carlos M. Gutierrez, former U.S. Secretary of Commerce, was elected to the United Technologies Corp. (NYSE:UTX) Board of Directors, effective March 11. He joins 13 other board members, 11 of whom are independent.
Gutierrez, 55, served most recently as U.S. Secretary of Commerce under the Bush Administration from 2005 to January 2009, where he led a large and diverse Cabinet agency of over 38,000 employees responsible for promoting American business around the globe. Prior to his appointment to U.S. Secretary of Commerce, Gutierrez spent 30 years with Kellogg Company, serving as Chairman and CEO from 2000 to 2005.
"Carlos Gutierrez has great experience and accomplishments internationally both through his long tenure at Kellogg and as our nation's Secretary of Commerce," said UTC Chairman George David. "I am delighted to welcome him to UTC's board."
Gutierrez studied Business Administration at the Monterrey Institute of Technology in Queretaro, Mexico. He has served on the boards of Colgate-Palmolive Company and the Grocery Manufacturers of America and as Co-Trustee of the W.K. Kellogg Foundation Trust.
United Technologies Corp., based in Hartford, Conn., is a diversified company that provides high technology products and services to the building and aerospace industries.
UTC-IR


