FILE:UTX/UTX-8K-20091020072339.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2Financial Information
 
On October 20, 2009, United Technologies Corporation issued a press release announcing its third quarter 2009 results.
The press release issued October 20, 2009 is furnished herewith as Exhibit No. 99 to this Report, and shall not be deemed filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits.
The following exhibits are included herewith:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99
HARTFORD, Conn., Oct. 20, 2009  United Technologies Corp. (NYSE:UTX) today reported third quarter 2009 earnings per share of $1.14 and net income attributable to common shareowners of $1.1 billion, down 14 percent and 17 percent, respectively, over the year ago quarter. Results for the current quarter include $0.13 per share in restructuring costs net of one time gains, as compared with $0.03 in the year ago quarter. Before these items, earnings per share declined 7 percent. Adverse foreign currency translation and currency hedges at Pratt & Whitney Canada totaled $0.07 per share in the third quarter of 2009.
Revenues for the quarter at $13.4 billion were 11 percent below prior year including organic decline (7 points) and adverse foreign currency translation (3 points). Segment operating margin at 14.5 percent was 20 basis points higher than prior year. Adjusted for restructuring costs and one time gains, segment operating margin was 70 basis points higher than prior year. Cash flow from operations was $1.9 billion, including $150 million of domestic pension contributions. Capital expenditures were $161 million in the quarter.
"Strong execution and our relentless focus on cost contributed to record segment operating margin even in the face of tough end markets," said Louis Chnevert, UTC President and Chief Executive Officer. "Cash flow from operations less capital expenditures was 160 percent of net income attributable to common shareowners on significant inventory reductions across both commercial and aerospace businesses.
"Year over year order rates have substantially stabilized although at lower levels and we've started to see improvement in some Asian economies, notably China," Chnevert continued. "Based on overall order trends as well as significant cost traction, we now expect 2009 earnings per share at $4.10, the midpoint of the prior range of $4.00 to $4.20. This guidance also reflects higher restructuring of $800 million this year with one time gains of around $175 million, compared with $750 million of restructuring and $200 million of gains assumed earlier.
"Cash flow from operations less capital expenditures year to date is 123 percent of net income attributable to common shareowners, notwithstanding $551 million of domestic pension contributions," Chnevert said. "Working capital and inventory reductions are enabling this, and we are confident this cash flow metric will again exceed UTC's usual standard of 100 percent for the year."
Chnevert added, "Order rates for most of our businesses have largely stabilized, although the shape of recovery is still uncertain. What is certain is the cost traction across UTC. In addition, the portfolio transformation at Carrier, a strong military backlog, and significant aftermarket content in all our businesses position us to resume earnings growth in 2010."
The accompanying tables include information integral to assessing the company's financial position, operating performance, and cash flow.
United Technologies Corp., based in Hartford, Connecticut, is a diversified company providing high technology products and services to the building and aerospace industries. Additional information, including a webcast, is available on the Internet at http://www.utc.com.
This release includes "forward looking statements" concerning expected revenue, earnings, cash flow, share repurchases, restructuring; anticipated benefits of UTC's diversification, cost reduction efforts and business model; and other matters that are subject to risks and uncertainties. These statements often contain words such as "expect", "anticipate", "plan", "estimate", "believe", "will", "should", "see", "guidance" and similar terms. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated or implied in forward looking statements include extended weakness in global economic conditions; extended contraction in credit conditions; the impact of volatility and deterioration in financial markets on overall levels of economic activity; declines in end market demand in construction and in both the commercial and defense segments of the aerospace industry; fluctuation in commodity prices, interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and the impact of weather conditions; and company specific items including the impact of further deterioration and extended weakness in global economic conditions on the financial strength of customers and suppliers and on levels of air travel; financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, of commercial airlines; the availability and impact of acquisitions; the rate and ability to effectively integrate these acquired businesses; the ability to achieve cost reductions at planned levels; challenges in the design, development, production and support of advanced technologies and new products and services; delays and disruption in delivery of materials and services from suppliers; labor disputes; and the
outcome of legal proceedings. The level of share repurchases may vary depending on the level of other investing activities. For information identifying other important economic, political, regulatory, legal, technological, competitive and other uncertainties, see UTC's SEC filings as submitted from time to time, including but not limited to, the information included in UTC's 10-K and 10-Q Reports under the headings "Business", "Risk Factors", "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and "Cautionary Note Concerning Factors that May Affect Future Results", as well as the information included in UTC's Current Reports on Form 8-K.
UTC-IR
United Technologies Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations
 
As described on the following pages, consolidated results for the quarters and nine months ended September 30, 2009 and 2008 include non-recurring items, restructuring and related charges.
See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
United Technologies Corporation
Segment Revenues and Operating Profit
 
As described on the following pages, consolidated results for the quarters and nine months ended September 30, 2009 and 2008 include non-recurring items, restructuring and related charges.
United Technologies Corporation
Consolidated Operating Profit
Consolidated operating profit for the quarters and nine months ended September 30, 2009 and 2008 includes restructuring and related charges as follows:
 
 
Consolidated results for the quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2009 include the following non-recurring items.
Q3-2009
 Approximately $57 million gain recognized from the contribution of the majority of Carrier's U.S. residential sales and distribution business into a new venture formed with Watsco, Inc.
Carrier:
 Approximately $17 million of favorable pretax interest adjustments related to global tax examination activity in the quarter, primarily reflecting the completion of our review of the 2004 to 2005 Internal Revenue Service (IRS) audit report.
Eliminations and other:
 Favorable income tax adjustments of approximately $38 million based on global examination activity in the quarter, including completion of our review of the 2004 to 2005 IRS audit report.
Income Taxes:
 Approximately $32 million adverse tax impact associated with a foreign reorganization.
Income Taxes:
Q2-2009
: An approximately $52 million non-cash, non-taxable gain recognized on the remeasurement to fair value of a previously held equity interest in a joint venture as a result of the purchase of a controlling interest.
Otis
Q1-2009
: Favorable tax impact of approximately $25 million related to the formation of a commercial venture.
Income Taxes
Q3-2008
: Approximately $37 million non-cash gain on a partial sale of an investment.
Pratt & Whitney
The following page provides segment revenues, operating profit and operating profit margins as adjusted for restructuring and the aforementioned non-recurring items. Management believes these adjusted results more accurately portray the ongoing operational performance and fundamentals of the underlying businesses. The amounts and timing of restructuring and non-recurring activity can vary substantially from period to period with no assurances of comparable activity or amounts being incurred in future periods. The level of expected restructuring announced in 2009 of $800 million (of which $695 million has been recorded to date), is significantly in excess of that incurred in prior years and reflects the severity of the current global recession. These amounts have therefore been adjusted out in the following schedule in order to provide a more representative comparison of current year operating performance to prior year performance.
United Technologies Corporation
Segment Revenues and Operating Profit Adjusted for Restructuring and Non-recurring items (as reflected on the previous page)
 
United Technologies Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet
 
United Technologies Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
 
United Technologies Corporation
Free Cash Flow Reconciliation
 
Free cash flow, which represents cash flow from operations less capital expenditures, is the principal cash performance measure used by the Company. Management believes free cash flow provides a relevant measure of liquidity and a useful basis for assessing the Corporation's ability to fund its activities, including the financing of acquisitions, debt service, repurchases of the Corporation's Common Stock and distribution of earnings to shareholders. Others that use the term free cash flow may calculate it differently. The reconciliation of net cash flow provided by operating activities, prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, to free cash flow is above.
United Technologies Corporation
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements
 
 
 


