FILE:UTX/UTX-8K-20110419170746.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On April 13, 2011, United Technologies Corporation ("UTC") held its 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareowners. Shareowners submitting votes for the meeting approved the adoption of amendments to the United Technologies Corporation 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan"). The amendments authorize the issuance of an additional 48 million shares of Common Stock under the Plan, extend the term of the Plan until April 30, 2017, impose certain additional restrictions on assignment of awards by recipients, clarify minimum vesting periods, confirm certain performance metrics for performance-based awards and adopt certain additional changes in Plan terms and conditions. The amendments became effective on April 13, 2011, upon approval by shareowners.
The foregoing description of the Plan is qualified in its entirety by reference to the complete terms and conditions of the Plan, a copy of which is included herewith as Exhibit 10.1 to this Report and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 5.07. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
United Technologies Corporation held its Annual Meeting of Shareowners on April 13, 2011. As of February 15, 2011, the record date for the meeting, 921,194,240 shares of UTC Common Stock were issued and outstanding. A quorum of 791,825,652 shares of Common Stock were present or represented at the meeting.
The following individuals were elected to serve as directors for a one-year term expiring at the 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareowners or upon the election and qualification of their successors:
Louis R. Chnevert, John V. Faraci, Jean-Pierre Garnier, Jamie S. Gorelick, Edward A. Kangas, Ellen J. Kullman, Charles R. Lee, Richard D. McCormick, Harold McGraw III, Richard B. Myers, H. Patrick Swygert, Andr Villeneuve, and Christine Todd Whitman.
The Shareowners voted on the following matters and cast their votes as described below.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
The following Exhibits are included herewith:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 10.1
SECTION 1. Purpose
The purpose of the Plan is to align shareowner and management interests through stock and performance-based awards linked to shareowner value and to give UTC a competitive advantage in attracting and retaining key employees and directors.
SECTION 2. Definitions
Certain terms used herein have definitions provided when they are first used. In addition, for purposes of this Plan, the following terms are defined as set forth below:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 3. Administration
 
 
 
 
SECTION 4. Common Stock Subject to Plan
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 5. Options and Stock Appreciation Rights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee shall have the power, in its discretion, to apply different rules concerning the consequences of a Termination of Employment, as set forth in the applicable Award Agreement.
SECTION 6. Restricted Stock
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 7. Performance Share Units
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 8. Restricted Stock Units
. A "Restricted Stock Unit" is equal in value to one Share of Common Stock and subject to vesting on the basis of a period of continuous employment with the Corporation or an Affiliate or other criteria as specified in the Award Agreement that constitute a "substantial risk of forfeiture" for purposes of Section 409A of the Code. Upon vesting, Restricted Stock Units will be settled by delivery of Shares to the Participant equal to the number of vested Restricted Stock Units. All Restricted Stock Units shall be settled no later than 2
Nature of Award
 1
/
2
months after the end of the year in which the Restricted Stock Units vest.
SECTION 9. Other Stock-Based Awards
Other Awards that are valued in whole or in part by reference to, or are otherwise based upon, Common Stock, including (without limitation) unrestricted stock, dividend equivalents, and convertible debentures, may be granted under the Plan.
SECTION 10. Future Events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If an Award is subject to Section 409A of the Code, the payment or settlement of the Award shall accelerate upon a Change-in-Control only if the event also constitutes a "change in ownership," "change in effective control," or "change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the Corporation's assets" as defined under Section 409A of the Code. Any adjustment to the Award that does not affect the Award's status under Section 409A (including, but not limited to, accelerated vesting or adjustment of the amount of the Award) may occur upon a Change-in-Control as defined in the Plan without regard to this paragraph, even if the event does not constitute a Change-in-Control under Section 409A.
SECTION 11. Qualified Performance-Based Awards
 
 
 
 
SECTION 12. Term, Amendment and Termination
 
 
 
 
SECTION 13. General Provisions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Following any of these events and immediately upon notice from the Corporation, the Participant must repay an amount equal to all income or gain realized in respect of any
 
Awards on and after (A) in the case of competing employment described in Section 13(e)(iv), twelve months prior to the date on which the Participant entered into competing employment, and (B) in all other cases, twenty-four months prior to the date on which the Participant engaged in conduct that constituted the basis for termination for Cause in Section 13(e)(i) or (ii) above or the conduct prohibited by Section 13(e)(iii) above. The amount of repayment shall include, without limitation: (i) gains from the exercise of Options or Stock Appreciation Rights; (ii) amounts received in connection with the delivery or sale of Shares or cash paid in respect of any Award; and (iii) any dividends, dividend equivalents or other distributions received in respect of any Award. There shall be no forfeiture or repayment under this Section 13(e) following a Change-in-Control.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


