FILE:UTX/UTX-8K-20111116171433.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 8  Other Events
 
On November 16, 2011, United Technologies Corporation issued a press release announcing that it will exercise its rights to redeem the $500 million aggregate principal amount of its outstanding 6.10% Notes due May 15, 2012.
The press release issued November 16, 2011 is furnished herewith as Exhibit No. 99.1 to this Report, and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
HARTFORD, Conn., Nov. 16, 2011  United Technologies Corp. (NYSE: UTX) today called for redemption of all of its 6.10 Percent Notes due May 15, 2012. The outstanding aggregate principal amount of the notes is $500 million.
The redemption date will be December 16, 2011. The redemption price will be the greater of: (i) 100 percent of the principal amount of the notes; and (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the notes, discounted to the redemption date as described in the notes, using a reference treasury rate plus 20 basis points. In either case, the redemption price will also include interest accrued on the notes to the redemption date.
United Technologies Corp., based in Hartford, Connecticut, is a diversified company providing high technology products and services to the building and aerospace industries.
From time to time, UTC may make statements that predict or forecast future events or results, depend on future events for their accuracy or otherwise contain "forward-looking information." These statements are made based on management's expectations and beliefs concerning future events and are not guarantees of future performance. Actual results may differ materially due to various risks and uncertainties. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated or implied in forward looking statements are described in UTC's Form 10-K and 10-Q Reports under the headings "Business", "Risk Factors", "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and "Cautionary Note Concerning Factors that May Affect Future Results", as well as the information included in UTC's Current Reports on Form 8-K.


