FILE:UTX/UTX-8K-20120912170121.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5Corporate Governance and Management
 
 
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
The following Exhibits are included herewith:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
HARTFORD, Conn., Sept. 12, 2012  Marshall Larsen, the former Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Goodrich Corporation, was elected today to the United Technologies Corp. (NYSE: UTX) Board of Directors. He joins 12 other board members, 11 of whom are independent.
Larsen, 64, joined Goodrich Corporation in 1977 and held a variety of leadership roles during his career. He served as Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer from 2003 until July 2012, when the company was acquired by UTC.
"Marshall's global business experience and remarkable record of accomplishment while leading Goodrich make him a valuable addition to UTC's Board of Directors," said UTC Chairman & Chief Executive Officer Louis Chnevert.
Larsen is a former chairman of the U.S. Aerospace Industries Association and also a former member of its Board of Governors. He serves as a director of Lowe's Companies Inc.; Becton, Dickinson and Company; and the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond. Larsen holds a Bachelor of Science degree in engineering from the United States Military Academy and a Master of Science degree from Purdue University.
United Technologies Corp., based in Hartford, Connecticut, is a diversified company providing high technology products and services to the building and aerospace industries.
UTC-IR


