FILE:UTX/UTX-8K-20120424073637.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2Financial Information
 
On April 24, 2012, United Technologies Corporation issued a press release announcing its first quarter 2012 results.
The press release issued April 24, 2012 is furnished herewith as Exhibit No. 99 to this Report, and shall not be deemed filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99
HARTFORD, Conn., April 24, 2012  United Technologies Corp. (NYSE:UTX) today reported first quarter 2012 results. All results in this release reflect continuing operations unless otherwise noted.
Earnings per share of $1.31 and net income attributable to common shareowners of $1.2 billion, were up 24 percent and 22 percent, respectively, over the year ago quarter. Results for the current quarter include $0.30 per share of net favorable one-time items, partially offset by $0.09 of restructuring costs. Earnings per share in the year ago quarter included $0.02 of restructuring costs. Before these items, earnings per share increased 2 percent year over year. Net foreign currency translation and hedges at Pratt & Whitney Canada had an adverse impact of $0.02 in the quarter.
Sales for the quarter of $12.4 billion were 2 percent below prior year reflecting net divestitures of 2 points and adverse foreign currency translation of 1 point. Organic sales increased 1 percent over the year ago quarter. First quarter segment operating margin at 14.6 percent was 20 basis points higher than prior year. Adjusted for restructuring costs and net one-time items, segment operating margin at 14.6 percent was 10 basis points lower than prior year. Research and development costs increased year over year by $77 million to $547 million.
"Earnings per share exceeded the expectations reviewed with investors at our March 15 meeting on stronger momentum in our U.S. residential HVAC business at the end of the quarter," said Louis Chnevert, UTC Chairman & Chief Executive Officer. "We continue to deliver earnings growth even as we make transformational changes to our portfolio and invest in game changing technologies."
New equipment orders at Otis were down 9 percent over the year ago first quarter, including favorable foreign exchange of 1 percentage point, driven by the expected slow start to the year in China. North American Residential HVAC new equipment orders at UTC Climate, Controls & Security grew 10 percent. Commercial spares orders were up 1 percent at Hamilton Sundstrand and down 3 percent at Pratt & Whitney's large engine business, after growing 23 percent and 33 percent, respectively, in the year ago first quarter.
"Continued focus on cost reduction and strong execution will allow us to deliver earnings per share in 2012 of $5.30 to $5.50, up 0 to 4 percent, on sales of $61 to $62 billion, including Goodrich," Chnevert added. "Given the uneven economic environment, we will invest $450 million in restructuring this year and expect net one-time gains of $600 million. This is compared with previous expectations of $350 million and $500 million, respectively."
Cash flow from operations was $1.3 billion and capital expenditures were $188 million in the quarter. Net income attributable to common shareowners of $1.2 billion included $268 million of net favorable non-cash one-time items. Acquisition spending was $72 million and there was no share repurchase. UTC does not anticipate share repurchase in 2012 and has a placeholder of $500 million for acquisitions excluding the proposed Goodrich and International Aero Engines transactions, both of which are expected to close mid-year.
"We had a strong start to the year, with good cash generation across the businesses," Chnevert said. "We continue to expect UTC's cash flow from operations less capital expenditures to meet or exceed net income attributable to common shareowners for the year."
Earnings per share from discontinued operations were a loss of $0.94 in the quarter, reflecting the previously disclosed goodwill impairment charges for Rocketdyne and Clipper, as well as tax adjustments associated with the planned divestiture of the Hamilton Sundstrand Industrial businesses.
United Technologies Corp., based in Hartford, Connecticut, is a diversified company providing high technology products and services to the building and aerospace industries. Additional information, including a webcast, is available on the Internet at http://www.utc.com.
The accompanying tables include information integral to assessing the company's financial position, operating performance, and cash flow, including a reconciliation of differences between non-GAAP measures used in this release and the comparable financial measures calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
This release includes statements that constitute "forward-looking statements" under the securities laws. Forward-looking statements often contain words such as "believe," "expect," "plans," "strategy," "prospects," "estimate," "project," "target," "anticipate," "will," "should," "see," "guidance,"
"confident" and similar terms. Forward-looking statements may include, among other things, statements relating to future and estimated sales, earnings, cash flow, financing plans, charges, expenditures, proceeds of divestitures, results of operations, uses of cash and other measures of financial performance. All forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Risks and uncertainties include, without limitation, the effect of economic conditions in the markets in which we operate, including financial market conditions, fluctuation in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates; future levels of indebtedness and capital and research and development spending; levels of end market demand in construction and in the aerospace industry; levels of air travel; financial difficulties of commercial airlines; the impact of weather conditions and natural disasters; the financial condition of our customers and suppliers; delays and disruption in delivery of materials and services from suppliers; cost reduction efforts and restructuring costs and savings and other consequences thereof; the scope, nature or impact of acquisitions, dispositions, joint ventures and other business arrangements, including integration of acquired businesses; the timing of completion of the previously announced transactions with Goodrich and Rolls-Royce; the timing and impact of anticipated dispositions of non-core businesses; the timing and amount of anticipated gains, losses, impairments and charges related to such dispositions; the timing and impact of anticipated financings in connection with the anticipated Goodrich transaction; the development and production of new products and services; the anticipated benefits of diversification and balance of operations across product lines, regions and industries; the impact of the negotiation of collective bargaining agreements, and labor disputes; the outcome of legal proceedings and other contingencies; future availability of credit; pension plan assumptions and future contributions; and the effect of changes in tax, environmental and other laws and regulations and political conditions in countries in which we operate and other factors beyond our control. The closing of the Goodrich acquisition is subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory approvals. The transaction with Rolls-Royce is also subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory approvals. The completion of the proposed divestitures of non-core businesses is subject to uncertainties, including the ability to secure disposition agreements on acceptable terms; the satisfaction of information, consultation, and / or negotiation obligations, if any, with employee representatives; and satisfaction of other customary conditions. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this release and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements after we distribute this release. For additional information identifying factors that may cause actual results to vary materially from those stated in the forward-looking statements, see our reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K filed with the SEC from time to time, including, but not limited to, the information
included in UTC's Forms 10-K and 10-Q under the headings "Business," "Risk Factors," "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and "Legal Proceedings" and in the notes to the financial statements included in UTC's Forms 10-K and 10-Q.
UTC-IR
United Technologies Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
 
As described on the following pages, consolidated results for the quarters ended March 31, 2012 and 2011 include restructuring costs and non-recurring items that management believes should be considered when evaluating the underlying financial performance.
See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
United Technologies Corporation
Segment Net Sales and Operating Profit
 
As described on the following pages, consolidated results for the quarters ended March 31, 2012 and 2011 include restructuring costs and non-recurring items that management believes should be considered when evaluating the underlying financial performance.
United Technologies Corporation
Restructuring Costs and Non-Recurring Items Included in Consolidated Results
 
Details of the non-recurring items for the quarter ended March 31, 2012 are as follows:
Approximately $112 million net gain from UTC Climate, Controls & Security's ongoing portfolio transformation. This net gain includes approximately $215 million from the sale of a controlling interest in a manufacturing and distribution joint venture in Asia, partially offset by $103 million of impairment charges related to planned business dispositions.
UTC Climate, Controls & Security:
An additional $10 million of reserves were established for the export licensing compliance matters recorded in the fourth quarter 2011.
Eliminations and other:
Approximately $15 million of favorable pre-tax interest adjustments related to the conclusion of the IRS's examination of the Company's 2006  2008 tax years.
Non-Recurring item included in Interest Expense, Net:
Approximately $203 million of favorable income tax adjustments related to the conclusion of the IRS's examination of the Company's 2006  2008 tax years.
Non-Recurring item included in Income Tax Expense:
Non-Recurring items included in Discontinued Operations:
 
 
The following page provides segment net sales, operating profits and operating profit margins as adjusted for the aforementioned restructuring costs and non-recurring items. Management believes these adjusted results more accurately portray the ongoing operational performance and fundamentals of the underlying businesses. The amount and timing of restructuring costs and non-recurring activity can vary substantially from period to period with no assurances of comparable activity or amounts being incurred in future periods. These amounts have therefore been adjusted out in the following schedule in order to provide a more representative comparison of current year operating performance to prior year performance.
United Technologies Corporation
Segment Net Sales and Operating Profit Adjusted for Restructuring Costs and Non-Recurring Items (as reflected on the previous pages)
 
United Technologies Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet
 
See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
United Technologies Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
 
See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
United Technologies Corporation
Free Cash Flow Reconciliation
 
United Technologies Corporation
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements
 
 
 
 


