FILE:UTX/UTX-8K-20120217170147.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5Corporate Governance and Management
 
(b)   On February 14, 2012, United Technologies Corporation (the "Company") announced the resignation of Didier Michaud-Daniel as President of Otis Elevator Co., effective as of that date. The Company also announced the appointment of Pedro Baranda as President of Otis Elevator Co. Mr. Baranda will succeed Mr. Michaud-Daniel, effective as of February 14, 2012.
A copy of the press release announcing the departure of Mr. Michaud-Daniel and the appointment of Mr. Baranda is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference.
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d)
  Exhibits
The following Exhibits are included herewith:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
HARTFORD, Conn., Feb. 14, 2012  United Technologies Corp. (NYSE: UTX) today announced the appointment of Pedro Baranda as President of Otis Elevator Co. Baranda succeeds Didier Michaud-Daniel, who is returning to France to become Chief Executive Officer of Bureau Veritas.
"Pedro is exceptionally well qualified for this assignment given his demonstrated leadership capabilities, deep industry knowledge and technical expertise," said UTC Chairman & Chief Executive Officer Louis Chnevert. "I am confident in Pedro's ability to lead Otis in delivering unmatched value to customers and UTC shareholders. His strong international experience, coupled with his outstanding customer relationships, will serve him well in his new role."
Baranda, 48, most recently served as president of Otis' South Europe and Middle East area. He began his career at United Technologies in 1993 as a research engineer at the United Technologies Research Center in Madrid. In 1997, he was transferred to the Otis Engineering Center in Farmington, Conn., as principal engineer. In 2001, Baranda was named director, new equipment, Otis Mexico and in 2002 was appointed managing director, Otis Portugal. In 2004, he was named general manager, Otis Spain. In 2006, Baranda was appointed managing director, Otis Spain and became a member of the Otis Executive Committee.
In 2000, Baranda was among a team of Otis engineers who earned the George Mead Medal  the highest engineering honor given by UTC  for contributions to the development of the revolutionary Gen2 elevator system, which replaced conventional steel ropes with polyurethane-coated steel belts. This unique, patented belt technology enabled a more compact energy-efficient machine, freeing up valuable building space and reducing operating costs.
Baranda holds a bachelor's degree from the University of Oviedo in Spain, a doctorate in engineering from Rutgers University, and a Master of Business Administration from Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
United Technologies Corp., based in Hartford, Conn., is a diversified company that provides a broad range of high technology products and support services to the building systems and aerospace industries.
UTC-IR


