FILE:QEP/QEP-8K-20080305102717.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12(b))
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17
       CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17
       CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 7.01.
Regulation FD Disclosure.
In , Civil No. 2'08CV167, filed on February 29, 2008 in Utah Federal District Court, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) alleges that Gas Management violated the federal Clean Air Act (CAA) and seeks potentially substantial penalties and a permanent injunction involving the manner of operation of five compressor stations located in the Uinta Basin of eastern Utah. EPA further alleges that the facilities are located within the original boundaries of the former Uncompahgre Indian Reservation and therefore within "Indian Country". EPA asserts primary CAA jurisdiction over "Indian Country" where state CAA programs do not apply. EPA contends that the potential to emit, on a hypothetically uncontrolled basis, for Gas Management's facilities render them "major sources" of emissions for criteria and hazardous air pollutants. Categorization of the facili ties as "major sources" affects the particular regulatory program applicable to those facilities. EPA claims that Gas Management failed to obtain the necessary major source pre-construction or modification permits, and failed to comply with hazardous air-pollutant regulations for testing and reporting, among other things. Gas Management contends that its facilities have controls installed which reduce their actual air emissions below major source thresholds, rendering them subject to different regulatory requirements. Gas Management intends to vigorously defend against the EPA's claims, and believes that the major source permitting and regulatory requirements at issue can be legally avoided by applying Utah's CAA program or EPA's prior practice for similar facilities elsewhere in Indian Country, among other defenses. Because of the complexities and uncertainties of this dispute, it is difficult to predict the likely potential outcomes; however, management believes the company has accrued an appropriate liability for this claim.
United States of America v. Questar Gas Management Co.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
QUESTAR MARKET RESOURCES, INC.
   (Registrant)
March 4, 2008
/s/C. B. Stanley
C. B. Stanley
President and Chief Executive Officer


