FILE:QEP/QEP-8K-20100524114741.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17
    CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17
    CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Section 3  Securities and Trading Markets
Item 3.03.  Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders.
 
As previously disclosed, Questar Corporation (""), the parent company of Questar Market Resources, Inc. (""), is considering a possible tax-free spin-off of QMR.  In connection therewith, effective May 18, 2010, QMR merged with and into its newly-formed, wholly-owned subsidiary, QEP Resources, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("") in order to reincorporate in the State of Delaware (the "). The Reincorporation Merger was effected pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger entered into between QMR and QEP. The Reincorporation Merger was approved by the boards of directors of QMR and QEP and submitted to a vote of, and approved by, Questar, as sole shareholder of QMR, and by QMR, as sole shareholder of QEP on May 18, 2010. As a result of the Reincorporation Merger, the legal domicile of QMR i s now Delaware.    As used herein, the "" and the "" refer to QEP, as the surviving entity after the Reincorporation Merger and as successor to QMR.
Questar
QMR
QEP
Reincorporation Merger
"
Company
surviving corporation
     
As provided by the Agreement and Plan of Merger, at the time the Reincorporation Merger became effective (the ""), each share of QMR common stock, par value $1.00 per share ("), outstanding immediately prior thereto, was automatically converted into one share of QEP common stock, par value $0.01 per share (""), and each share of Delaware Common Stock outstanding immediately prior thereto was canceled without consideration and returned to the status of authorized but unissued shares.
Effective Time
Utah Common Stock
"
Delaware Common Stock
     
In connection with the Reincorporation Merger, the Company's board of directors will consist of the persons described in Item 5.02 of this  Current Report on Form 8-K.  None of the Company's subsidiaries changed its respective state or jurisdiction of incorporation in connection with the Reincorporation Merger.  A copy of the Agreement and Plan of Merger is incorporated by reference as Exhibit 2.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K, and statements herein regarding the Agreement and Plan of Merger are qualified by reference to the complete Agreement and Plan of Merger.
Prior to the Reincorporation Merger, QMR's corporate affairs were governed by Utah corporate law and its articles of incorporation, as amended, and bylaws (the ""), each of which were adopted under Utah law. Pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger described above and in connection with the Reincorporation Merger, a certificate of incorporation was adopted and the bylaws of QEP in effect immediately prior to the Effective Time were amended and restated, and such certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws (the "") became the certificate of incorporation and bylaws of the surviving corporation. Accordingly, the constituent instruments defining the rights of holders of the Company's common stock will now be the Delaware Charter and Bylaws, which are attached as Exhibits 3.1 and 3.2, respectively, to thi s Current Report on Form 8-K, rather than the Utah Charter and Bylaws. Additionally, as a result of the Reincorporation Merger, Delaware corporate law will generally be applicable in the determination of the rights of the Company's stockholders under state corporate laws.
Utah Charter and Bylaws
Delaware Charter and Bylaws
Furthermore, as a result of the Reincorporation Merger and by operation of Rule 12g-3(a) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the ""), QEP is the successor issuer to QMR and has succeeded to the attributes of QMR as the registrant. QEP common stock is deemed to be registered under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act.
Exchange Act
Section 5  Corporate Governance and Management
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Appointment of Directors
Effective as of May 18, 2010, the QEP board of directors increased the number of directors from one to seven members in connection with the Reincorporation Merger. Additionally, the board of directors will be divided into three classes of directors, as nearly equal in number as possible, serving staggered terms. Approximately one-third of the board of directors will be elected each year. The Class I, Class II and Class III directors will have initial terms expiring in 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively, and after the expiration of those initial terms, directors will serve three-year terms.  
Effective as of May 18, 2010, the following persons have been appointed to the QEP board of directors. All of these individuals currently serve on the boards of Questar Corporation and have served on the board of Questar Market Resources, Inc.:
, age 74, previously served as a Questar director from 1976-1997 and resigned to enter government service. He was reappointed to the Questar board of directors in 2001, and has served continuously since that time. Mr. Harmon is the chairman of Harmon & Co. LLC, a financial advisory firm. Mr. Harmon served as the chairman and president of the Export-Import Bank of the United States from 1997 until 2001. Prior to that service, Mr. Harmon spent 35 years as an investment banker at Wertheim & Co., an international investment bank that partnered with Schroder (plc) (U.K.) to form Wertheim Schroder & Co. in 1986. Mr. Harmon served as chairman and CEO for ten years before leaving the firm in 1997. In November 2004, Mr. Harmon was elected chairman of the board of the World Resources Institute (WRI), a global policy and research institution. He qualifies as an audit committee financial expert.
James A. Harmon
Mr. Harmon will serve on the QEP Audit Committee (described below).  He will be a Class I director.
, , age 63, is a director of Questar, and has served as a director since 2003. He was a senior oil advisor to the Coalition Provisional Authority and the Iraqi Oil Ministry in Iraq and assisted with the rebuilding of Iraq's oil industry from September 1, 2003 to March 18, 2004. Mr. McKee retired on March 31, 2003, after 37 years with ConocoPhillips and Conoco, Inc., including 10 years as executive vice president, exploration and production (1992-2002). He is a director of Parker Drilling Company and Post Oak Bank, and a board member on the Colorado School of Mines Foundation. He recently retired as chairman of Enventure Global Technology, an expandable tubular technology company.
Robert E. McKee
III
Mr. McKee will serve on the QEP Audit and Compensation Committees (described below). He will be a Class III director.
, age 50, is a director of Questar, and has served as a director since 2004. He is the president, chief executive officer and a director of Hecla Mining Company, a gold and silver mining company. Mr. Baker served as chief financial officer of Hecla from May 2001 to June 2003, and as chief operating officer from November 2001 to May 2003, before being named as chief executive officer in May 2003. Mr. Baker has 26 years of business experience, including 17 years of financial management; 7 years as CEO of an NYSE company; and 16 years of directorships of public companies. He qualifies as an audit committee financial expert.
Phillips S. Baker, Jr.
Mr. Baker will serve on the QEP Audit and Governance Committees (described below).  He will be a Class II director.
, age 62, is a director of Questar, and has served as a director since 2002. He retired as chief executive, gas and power for BP plc on December 31, 2001. He served in that position from January 1999 to his retirement. Prior to working for BP plc and BP Amoco plc, Mr. Flury held a number of key management positions with Amoco Corp., including chief executive for worldwide exploration and production. He has considerable experience in all aspects of the natural gas value chain gained during his long career in the oil and gas industry. Mr. Flury also serves as Chairman of Chicago Bridge and Iron Company N.V., and Callon Petroleum Company.
L. Richard Flury
Mr. Flury will serve on the QEP Compensation and Governance Committees.  He will be a Class III director.
, age 56, is a director of Questar, and has served as a director since 2001. He also serves as Questar's chairman, president and chief executive officer. He was named president of Questar effective February 1, 2001, chief executive officer of Questar May 1, 2002, and chairman of Questar May 20, 2003. Mr. Rattie has worked in the natural gas and oil industry for 34 years. Prior to joining Questar, Mr. Rattie served as vice president and senior vice president of The Coastal Corporation from 1996-2001. He also serves as a director of ENSCO International, an offshore drilling contractor, and as a director of Zions First National Bank. He is the past chairman of the board of the Interstate Natural Gas Association of America.
Keith O. Rattie
Mr. Rattie will serve as non-executive Chairman of the Board. He will be a Class I director.
, age 62, is a director of Questar, and has served as a director since 2005. In June 2006, Dr. Scoggins was appointed President of Colorado School of Mines, an engineering and science research university. He retired in 2004 after a 34-year career with Mobil Corp. and Exxon Mobil Corp., where he held senior executive positions in the upstream oil and gas business. From 1999 to 2004 he served as executive vice president of Exxon Mobil Production Co. Prior to the merger of Mobil and Exxon in late 1999, he was president, international exploration & production and global exploration, and an officer and member of the executive committee of Mobil Oil Corp. He currently also serves as a director of Trico Marine Services, Inc., Venoco, Inc., and Cobalt International Energy. In addition, he is a director of the Colorado Oil and Gas Association and a member of the Nation al Advisory Council of the United States Department of Energy's National Renewable Energy Laboratory.
M. W. Scoggins
Mr. Scoggins will serve on the QEP Compensation and Governance Committees.  He will be a Class III director.
, age 51, is a director of Questar, and has served as a director since 2002 and also currently serves as executive vice president and chief operating officer of Questar. Mr. Stanley has over 26 years of experience in the international and domestic upstream and midstream oil and gas industry. Prior to joining Questar, he served as president, chief executive officer and director of El Paso Oil and Gas Canada, an upstream oil and gas company, from 2000-2002, and as president and chief executive officer of Coastal Gas International Company, a midstream infrastructure development company from 1995 to 2000. Prior to joining Coastal, Mr. Stanley held various technical and management positions at British Petroleum and Maxus Energy Corporation. He is a director of Hecla Mining Company and serves on the boards of American Natural Gas Alliance
Charles B. Stanley
(ANGA), the American Exploration and Production Council (AXPC), and the Independent Petroleum Association of Mountain States (IPAMS).
Mr. Stanley will continue to be QEP's chief executive officer.  He will be a Class II director.
There are no arrangements or understandings between any director listed above and any other persons pursuant to which he was selected as a director or officer. There are no current or proposed transactions between QEP and any director or officer listed above, or his immediate family members requiring disclosure under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The QEP board of directors has established the following committees:
Audit Committee
Our Audit Committee will have responsibility to select and retain a firm of independent public accountants to conduct audits of our accounts. It also will review with the independent registered public accountants the scope and results of their audits, as well as the review of our accounting procedures, internal controls, and accounting and financial reporting policies and practices, and make reports and recommendations to our board of directors as it deems appropriate. The audit committee will also be responsible for approving all audit and permissible non-audit services provided to us by our independent public accountants.  Effective May 18, 2010, Messrs. McKee, Baker and Harmon serve on the Audit Committee.
Compensation Committee
Our Compensation Committee will have oversight responsibility for the compensation and benefits programs for our executive officers and certain other employees.  Effective May 18, 2010, Messrs. Flury, McKee, and Scoggins serve on the Compensation Committee.
Governance Committee
Our Governance Committee will have responsibility for reviewing and developing our corporate governance policies. This committee will recommend to the board of directors the slate of nominees, including any nominees recommended by stockholders, for directors for each year's annual meeting and, when vacancies occur, names of individuals who would make suitable directors of QEP.  This committee will also have oversight responsibility of the evaluation of our board of directors and management.  Effective May 18, 2010, Messrs. Baker, Flury and Scoggins serve on the Governance Committee.
Appointment of Officers
Effective as of May 18, 2010, the following persons have been appointed as executive officers of QEP. These individuals have served in the same positions for QMR:
. See the description of Mr. Stanley's experience above. Mr. Stanley will serve as President and Chief Executive Officer of QEP.
Charles B. Stanley
, age 51, will serve as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.  He currently serves in the same position for Questar and has served in that position since 2009. Prior to joining Questar, Mr. Doleshek was Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Hilcorp Energy Company (2001 to 2009).
Richard J. Doleshek
.
Item 5.03.  Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
In connection with the Reincorporation Merger, on May 18, 2010, QMR, as sole stockholder of QEP, adopted and approved the Delaware Charter, and the board of directors of QEP, adopted and approved the Bylaws. See Item 3.03 of this Current Report on Form 8-K. 
 
The following is a summary of our capital stock and is subject in all respects to the applicable provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, (""), as well as our Delaware Charter and Bylaws, which are referred to in this Item 5.03 as our ""and  "," respectively.  
DGCL
certificate of incorporation
bylaws
General
Our total number of authorized shares of capital stock is 510million shares, consisting of 500millionshares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, and 10 million shares of preferred stock, par value $0.01per share.  Previously, under QMR's Utah Charter, QMR had authorized 25 million shares, consisting of common stock, $1.00 per share.
Common Stock
The holders of our common stock are entitled to one vote per share. Directors are elected by a plurality of the votes cast at a meeting at which a quorum is present, and common stockholders will not have the right to cumulate votes in director elections. Subject to any voting rights granted to holders of any outstanding shares of preferred stock and except as otherwise required by our certificate of incorporation or bylaws, other matters to be voted on by our stockholders must be approved by the affirmative vote of a majority of the outstanding voting power of the shares, present in person or represented by proxy and entitled to vote on such matter, at a meeting at which a quorum is present. A majority of the outstanding voting power entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at all stockholder meetings for the transact ion of business.
Subject to the rights of the holders of any preferred stock, in the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company's affairs, whether voluntary or involuntary, common stockholders will be entitled to their ratable share of all assets legally available for distribution to stockholders. Common stockholders do not have preemptive rights or any rights to convert or exchange their common stock into any other securities. No redemption or sinking fund provisions will apply to our common stock. All outstanding shares of our common stock are fully paid and non-assessable.
Common stockholders will share equally on a per share basis in any dividend declared by our board of directors, subject to any preferential rights of holders of any outstanding shares of preferred stock.
Preferred Stock
Our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to issue up to 10 million shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the designations, powers, preferences, rights and qualifications, limitations or restrictions of the preferred stock, including the number of shares constituting any series or the designation of a series, voting rights, dividend rights, terms of redemption, liquidation preference, sinking fund terms and conversion rights. Thus, our board of directors can issue preferred stock with rights that could adversely affect the voting power of the common stockholders. We do not currently have outstanding any shares of preferred stock.
Delaware Anti-Takeover Law
We are governed by Section 203 of the DGCL. Section 203, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years following the time that such stockholder became an interested stockholder, unless:
 prior to that time, the corporation's board of directors approved either the business combination or the transaction which resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder; or
upon consummation of the transaction that resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder, the interested stockholder owned at least 85% of the corporation's voting stock outstanding at the time the transaction commenced, excluding specified shares; or
at or subsequent to that time, the business combination is approved by the board of directors and authorized at an annual or special meeting of stockholders, and not by written consent, by the affirmative vote of at least 66% of the outstanding voting stock that is not owned by the interested stockholder.
For purposes of Section 203, an interested stockholder includes any person that is (i) the owner of 15% or more of the corporation's outstanding voting stock; (ii) an affiliate or associate of the person who was the owner of 15% or more of the corporation's outstanding voting stock at any time within three years immediately prior to the relevant date; or (iii) the affiliates and associates of the foregoing. Additionally, Section 203 defines a "business combination" to include:
any merger or consolidation involving the corporation and the interested stockholder;
any sale, lease, exchange, mortgage, pledge, transfer or other disposition of 10% or more of the corporation's assets to or with the interested stockholder;
subject to certain exceptions, any transaction which results in the issuance or transfer by the corporation of any of its stock to the interested stockholder;
any transaction involving the corporation which has the effect of increasing the proportionate share of the stock of any class or series of the corporation beneficially owned by the interested stockholder; or
the receipt by the interested stockholder of the benefit of any loans, advances, guarantees, pledges or other financial benefits provided by or through the corporation.
The application of Section 203 may limit the ability of stockholders to approve a transaction that they may deem to be in their best interests and, under specific circumstances, makes it more difficult for an "interested stockholder" to effect various business combinations with a corporation for a three-year period. Stockholders, however, may elect not to be governed by this section by adopting an amendment to the corporation's certificate of incorporation or bylaws, with any amendment becoming effective twelve months after adoption.
Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws do not exclude us from the restrictions imposed under Section 203. We anticipate that the provisions of Section 203 may encourage companies interested in acquiring us to negotiate in advance with its board of directors since the stockholder approval requirement would be avoided if a majority of the directors then in office approve either the business combination or the transaction that resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder.
Anti-Takeover Provisions of Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws
Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain certain provisions that could discourage potential takeover attempts and make it more difficult for our stockholders to change management or receive a premium for their shares.
Board Classification; Director Removal
Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws provide for our board of directors to be divided into three classes of directors, as nearly equal in number as possible, serving staggered terms. Approximately one-third of our board of directors will be elected each year.  The Class I, Class II and Class III directors will have initial terms expiring in 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively, and that after the expiration of those initial terms, directors will serve three-year terms. Our board of directors currently consists ofseven directors. The classified board provision in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may be amended, altered or repealed only upon the affirmative vote of holders of 80% of the outstanding voting power entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class.
Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of preferred stock then outstanding, any directors may be removed, but only for cause, at any special meeting of stockholders called for that purpose by the affirmative vote of the holders of 66% of the voting power of our outstanding shares entitled to vote generally in the election of directors. Further, subject to the rights of the holders of any series of preferred stock, vacancies resulting from death, resignation, retirement, disqualification, removal from office or otherwise, and newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the number of authorized directors may be filled only by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors, though less than a quorum of directors. Any director so chosen will hold office until the term of office of the class for which that director was chosen expires and until such director -  6;s successor has been duly elected and qualified.
A classified board of directors could prevent a party that acquires control of a majority of the outstanding voting stock from obtaining control of our board until the second annual stockholders meeting following the date the acquiror obtains the controlling stock interest. Additionally, the classified board could have the effect of discouraging a potential acquiror from making a tender offer for our shares or otherwise attempting to obtain control of the Company and could increase the likelihood that its incumbent directors will retain their positions.
We believe that a classified board will help to assure the continuity and stability of our board of directors and its business strategies and policies because a majority of the directors at any given time will have prior experience on the board. The classified board should also help ensure that our board of directors, if confronted with an unsolicited proposal from a third party that has acquired a block of our voting stock, will have sufficient time to review the proposal and appropriate alternatives and to seek the best available result for all stockholders.
Fair Price Provision
Our certificate of incorporation requires that business combinations between QEP and a related person be approved, subject to compliance with Section 203 of the DGCL, by the affirmative vote of the holders of not less than 80% of our outstanding voting power entitled to vote generally in the election of directors. For purposes of the certificate of incorporation, a related person is (i) any person who, along with its affiliates and associates, beneficially owns in the aggregate 10% or more of the outstanding shares of any class of our capital stock or (ii) the affiliates and associates of the foregoing. Additionally, under the certificate of incorporation a business combination includes:
any merger, consolidation or share exchange of QEP with or into a related person;
any sale, lease, exchange, transfer or other disposition of 20% of the fair market value of (1) our total assets to a related person or (2) a related person's total assets to QEP;
subject to certain exceptions, any transaction which results in the issuance or transfer (1) by QEP of any of its stock to a related person or (2) by a related person of any of the related person's stock to QEP;
any recapitalization or reclassification of our securities which increases the voting power of a related person;
the adoption of any plan or proposal of our liquidation or dissolution proposed by or on behalf of a related person; and
any agreement, plan, contract or other arrangement providing for any of the transactions described above.
The supermajority voting requirement for business combinations does not apply if either: (i) 66% of the continuing directors approve the transaction or (ii) specified fair price and other conditions are met. A continuing director is a director who is unaffiliated with the related person and either (x) was in office before the related person became a related person or (ii) before the director's initial election or appointment was designated as a continuing director by a majority of the then continuing directors.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event a business combination requires a stockholder vote under Section 203 of the DGCL, the business combination will not require a greater vote than that specified by Section 203.
Stockholder Action by Written Consent; Special Meetings
Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws provide that any action required or permitted to be taken by our stockholders at an annual or special meeting of stockholders may be taken without a meeting and without a vote, if a consent, setting forth the action so taken, is signed by the holders of outstanding stock having not less than the minimum number of votes required to authorize or take such action; provided, however that no action may be taken without a meeting or effected by a written consent at any time when Questar is the owner of less than all of the voting power of all outstanding shares of stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors. The bylaws provide that special meetings of the stockholders can only be called by our chairman, president or a majority of our board of directors.
Advanced Notice Procedures of Director Nominations and Stockholder Proposals
Annual Meetings of Stockholders
Our bylaws provide the manner in which stockholders may give notice of director nominations and other business to be brought before an annual meeting. In general, a stockholder may nominate a director or bring other business before an annual meeting if that stockholder (i) gives timely written notice of the nomination or other business to our secretary, (ii) is a stockholder of record on the date the stockholder gives notice and on the date of the meeting and (iii) is entitled to vote at the meeting.
To be timely, a stockholder's notice must be delivered to or mailed and received at our principal executive offices not less than 90 nor more than 120 days prior to the first anniversary of the immediately preceding annual meeting. However, in the event that the date of the annual meeting is more than 30 days before or 60 days after the anniversary date, or in the case of the first annual meeting of stockholders following the effectiveness of the bylaws, the stockholder's notice must be received not earlier than the close of business on the one hundred twentieth day prior to the annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the ninetieth day prior to the annual meeting or, if the first public announcement of the date of the annual meeting is less than 100 days prior to the date of the annual meeting, the tenth day following the day on which we publicly announce the dat e of the meeting.
To be in proper form, the stockholder's notice must set forth, among other things:
the name and record address of the stockholder;
the class or series and number of shares that are owned of record and beneficially by the stockholder proposing the nomination or other business;
a brief description of the business proposed to be brought before the meeting and the reason for conducting the business;
as to each proposed director nominee, if any (i) all information regarding the proposed nominee as would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for election of directors in a contested election pursuant to the proxy rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission (including the consent of the proposed nominee to be named in the proxy statement and to serve as a director if elected) and (ii) a description of all compensation and material monetary agreements during the past three years, and any other material relationships, between the stockholder, its affiliates and associates and other persons acting in concert with the stockholder, on the one hand, and the proposed nominee, his or her affiliates and associates and other persons acting in concert with the proposed nominee, on the other hand; and
if the stockholder intends to solicit proxies in support of the nomination or proposal, a representation to that effect.
Special Meetings of Stockholders
If our board of directors determines that directors are to be elected at a special meeting, stockholders may give notice of director nominations if that stockholder (i) gives timely written notice of the nomination to our secretary, (ii) is a stockholder of record on the date the stockholder gives notice and on the date of the meeting and (iii) is entitled to vote at the meeting. To be timely, a stockholder's notice must be delivered to our secretary at our principal executive offices not earlier than the close of business on the 120 day prior to the special meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the ninetieth day prior to the special meeting or, if the first public announcement of the date of the special meeting is less than 100 days prior to the date of the special meeting, the tenth day following the day on which we publicly announce the date of the meeting and of the nominees proposed by the board to be elected at the meeting. The stockholder's notice must include the relevant information set forth above as to each proposed nominee.
th
Preferred Stock Issuances
In the event our board of directors does not approve of a proposed merger or tender offer, proxy contest or other attempt to gain control of QEP, the board may authorize the issuance of one or more series of preferred stock with voting or other rights and preferences which would impede the success of the transaction. The consent of common stockholders would not be required for any issuance of preferred stock in these situations. This authority may be limited by applicable law, our certificate of incorporation and the applicable rules of the stock exchange upon which our common stock is listed.
Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation
Any proposal to amend, alter, change or repeal any provision of our certificate of incorporation generally requires approval by our board of directors and a majority of the voting power of our outstanding shares entitled to vote generally in the election of directors. However, the affirmative vote of 80% of the outstanding voting power entitled to vote generally in the election of directors is required to approve any proposal to amend, alter, change or repeal the provisions of the certificate of incorporation relating to (i) the classification of the board of directors, removal of directors and filling of director vacancies; (ii) the amendment of our bylaws; (iii) business combinations with related persons; (iv) the limitation or elimination of directors' liability to QEP and its stockholders; (v) stockholder action by
written consent and (vi) the supermajority voting requirement to amend certain provisions of the certificate of incorporation.
Limitation of Liability; Indemnification
Our certificate of incorporation contains certain provisions permitted under the DGCL relating to the liability of directors. These provisions eliminate a director's personal liability for monetary damages resulting from a breach of fiduciary duty, except that a director will be personally liable:
for any breach of the director's duty of loyalty to QEP or its stockholders;
for acts or omissions not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law;
for any transaction from which the director derives an improper personal benefit; and
for any action that would result in statutory liability under Section 174 of the DGCL relating to unlawful stock repurchases or dividends.
 
These provisions do not limit or eliminate our rights or those of any stockholder to seek non-monetary relief, such as an injunction or rescission, in the event of a breach of a director's fiduciary duty. These provisions will not alter a director's liability under federal securities laws.
Our bylaws also provide that we must indemnify its directors and officers to the fullest extent permitted by Delaware law and advance expenses, as incurred, to its directors and officers in connection with a legal proceeding to the fullest extent permitted by Delaware law, subject to very limited exceptions.
Copies of our Delaware Charter and Bylaws are attached hereto as Exhibits 3.1 and 3.2, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference and made a part hereof..
Transfer Agent and Registrar
The transfer agent and registrar for QEP common stock is Wells Fargo Shareholder Services.
 
 
Section 9  Financial Statement and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
Exhibits.
Exhibit No.
Exhibit
2.1   
Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of May 18, 2010, between Questar Market Resources, Inc., a Utah corporation, and QEP Resources, Inc., a Delaware corporation.
3.1   
Certificate of Incorporation of the Company dated May 18, 2010.
3.2   
Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company, deemed effective May 18, 2010.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
QEP RESOURCES, INC., successor by merger to QUESTAR MARKET RESOURCES, INC.
(Registrant)
May 24, 2010
/s/Richard J. Doleshek
Richard J. Doleshek
Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer
List of Exhibits:
Exhibit No.
Exhibit
2.1   
Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of May 18, 2010, between Questar Market Resources, Inc., a Utah corporation, and QEP Resources, Inc., a Delaware corporation.
3.1   
Certificate of Incorporation of the Company dated May 18, 2010.
3.2   
Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company, deemed effective May 18, 2010.

Exhibit 2.1
This AGREEMENT AND PLAN OF MERGER (this ""), dated as of May 2010, is entered into by and between Questar Market Resources, Inc., a Utah corporation (""), and QEP Resources, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("" and, together with QMR, the "").
Agreement
18,
QMR
QEP
Constituent Entities
1.
QEP is a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware.  The total number of shares of all classes of stock which QEP is authorized to issue is 3,000, consisting of 3,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share ("").  At the Effective Time (as defined below), QEP will be authorized to issue 510,000,000 shares of capital stock, consisting of 500,000,000 million shares of QEP Common Stock and 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share.  As of the date hereof, 1 share of QEP Common Stock is issued and outstanding and held by QMR (the "").
QEP Common Stock
QEP Sole Stockholder
2.
QMR is a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Utah.  The total number of shares of all classes of stock which QMR is authorized to issue is 25,000,000, consisting of 25,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $1.00 per share ("").  As of the date hereof, 4,309,427 shares of QMR Common Stock are issued and outstanding, all of which are held by Questar Corporation, a Utah corporation (the "").
QMR Common Stock
QMR Sole Stockholder
3.
The Board of Directors of each Constituent Entity has determined that, for the purpose of effecting the reincorporation of QMR in the State of Delaware, it is advisable and in the best interests of such Constituent Entity and its respective stockholder that QMR merge with and into QEP upon the terms and conditions herein provided.  
4.
For Federal income tax purposes, the Merger (as defined below) is intended to qualify as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the ""), and the regulations promulgated thereunder, and the Agreement is intended to a plan of reorganization as defined in Treasury Regulations section 1.368-2(g).
Code
5.
The Board of Directors of each Constituent Entity has approved this Agreement.
6.
This Agreement will be submitted to each of the QMR Sole Stockholder and QEP Sole Stockholder for adoption thereby.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual agreements and covenants set forth herein, QEP and QMR hereby agree, subject to the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth, as follows:
Section 1.1
In accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "") and the Utah Revised Business Corporation Act (the ""), QMR shall be merged with and into QEP (the ""), the separate existence of QMR shall cease and QEP shall survive the Merger and shall continue to be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware, and QEP shall be, and is herein sometimes referred to as the "," and the name of the Surviving Corporation shall be QEP Resources, Inc..
Merger.  
DGCL
Utah Act
Merger
Surviving Corporation
Section 1.2
 The Merger shall become effective when the following actions shall have been completed, or at such later time as may be provided for in the Certificate of Merger and Articles of Merger referred to below:
Filing and Effectiveness.
(a)
This Agreement and the Merger shall have been adopted and approved by the QMR Sole Stockholder in accordance with the requirements of the Utah Act;
(b)
This Agreement and the Merger shall have been adopted by the QEP Sole Stockholder in accordance with the requirements of the DGCL and certificate of incorporation and bylaws of QEP;
(c)
All of the conditions precedent to the consummation of the Merger specified in this Agreement shall have been satisfied or duly waived by the party entitled to satisfaction thereof;
(d)
An executed Certificate of Merger in the form of attached hereto shall have been filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware; and
Exhibit A
(e)
Executed Articles of Merger in the form of attached hereto shall have been filed with the Utah Department of Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code.
Exhibit B
The date and time when the Merger shall become effective, as aforesaid, is herein called the "."
Effective Time
Section 1.3
At the Effective Time, the separate existence of QMR shall cease, and QEP, as the Surviving Corporation, shall (a) continue to possess all of its assets, rights, powers and property as constituted immediately prior to the Effective Time, (b) be subject to all actions previously taken by its and QMR's Boards of Directors, (c) succeed, without other transfer, to all of the assets, rights, powers and property of QMR in the manner as more fully set forth in Section 259 of the DGCL, (d) continue to be subject to all of its debts, liabilities and obligations as constituted immediately prior to the Effective Time and (e) succeed, without other transfer, to all of the debts, liabilities and
Effect of the Merger.  
obligations of QMR in the same manner as if QEP had itself incurred them, all as more fully provided under the applicable provisions of the DGCL and the Utah Act.
Section 2.1
In connection with the Merger, the Certificate of Incorporation of QEP as in effect immediately prior to the Effective Time will be amended in its entirety, in the form of attached hereto, and, as so amended, shall be the certificate of incorporation of the Surviving Corporation and continue in full force and effect as the certificate of incorporation of the Surviving Corporation until duly amended in accordance with the provisions thereof and applicable law.
Certificate of Incorporation.  
Exhibit C
Section 2.2
In connection with the Merger, the Bylaws of QEP as in effect immediately prior to the Effective Time will be amended and restated, in the form of attached hereto, and, as so amended and restated, shall be the bylaws of the Surviving Corporation and continue in full force and effect as the bylaws of the Surviving Corporation until duly amended in accordance with the provisions of the certificate of incorporation of the Surviving Corporation, such bylaws and applicable law.
Bylaws.  
Exhibit D
Section 2.3
At the Effective Time, the persons listed on attached hereto will become the directors and officers of the Surviving Corporation, and such persons shall serve in such capacities until their respective successors shall have been duly elected and qualified or until as otherwise provided by law, the certificate of incorporation of the Surviving Corporation or the bylaws of the Surviving Corporation.
Directors and Officers.  
Exhibit E
Section 3.1
 At the Effective Time, each share of QMR Common Stock issued and outstanding immediately prior thereto shall, by virtue of the Merger and without any action by the Constituent Entities, the holder of such shares or any other person, be converted into and become one newly and validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable share of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Surviving Corporation.
QMR Common Stock.
Section 3.2
At the Effective Time, each share of QEP Common Stock issued and outstanding immediately prior thereto shall, by virtue of the Merger and without any action by QEP, the holder of such shares or any other person, be canceled without consideration and returned to the status of authorized but unissued shares.
QEP Common Stock.  
Section 4.1
From time to time, as and when required by QEP or by its successors or assigns, there shall be executed and delivered on behalf of QMR such deeds and other instruments, and there shall be taken or caused to be taken by each Constituent Entity such further and other actions, as shall be appropriate or necessary in order to
Further Assurances.  
vest or perfect in or conform of record or otherwise by QEP the title to and possession of all the property, interests, assets, rights, privileges, immunities, powers, franchises and authority of QMR and otherwise to carry out the purposes of this Agreement, and the officers and directors of QEP are fully authorized in the name and on behalf of QMR or otherwise to take any and all such action and to execute and deliver any and all such deeds and other instruments.
Section 4.2
 At any time before the Effective Time, this Agreement may be terminated and the Merger may be abandoned for any reason whatsoever by the Boards of Directors of QMR and QEP, notwithstanding the approval of this Agreement by the QMR Sole Stockholder or the QEP Sole Stockholder.
Abandonment.
Section 4.3
The registered office of the Surviving Corporation in the State of Delaware will be located at 1209 Orange Street, in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, State of Delaware, and The Corporation Trust Corporation will be the registered agent of the Surviving Corporation at such address.
Registered Office.
Section 4.4
 Executed copies of this Agreement will be on file at the principal place of business of the Surviving Corporation at 1050 17 Street, Suite 500, Denver CO 80265, and copies thereof will be furnished to any shareholder of either Constituent Entity, upon request and without cost.
Agreement.
th
Section 4.5
This Agreement shall in all respects be construed, interpreted and enforced in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Delaware and, so far as applicable, the merger provisions of the Utah Act.
Governing Law.
Section 4.6
 In order to facilitate the filing and recording of this Agreement, the same may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original and all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties have hereunto caused this Agreement to be duly executed as of the date first above written.
QUESTAR MARKET RESOURCES, INC.
By:  
/s/ Jay B. Neese
        Name: Jay B. Neese
        Title: Executive Vice President
QEP RESOURCES, INC.
By:  
/s/ Charles B. Stanley
        Name: Charles B. Stanley
        Title: President and Chief Executive Officer

Exhibit 3.1
ARTICLE I. NAME
The name of the Company is QEP Resources, Inc.
ARTICLE II. REGISTERED OFFICE
The address of the Company's registered office in the State of Delaware is 1209 Orange Street, in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, 19801.  The name of its registered agent at such address is The Corporation Trust Company.
ARTICLE III. BUSINESS
The purpose of the Company is to engage in any lawful act or activity for which corporations may be organized under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "").  
DGCL
ARTICLE IV. AUTHORIZED CAPITAL STOCK
The aggregate number of shares of capital stock that the Company shall have authority to issue is 510,000,000, of which 500,000,000 shares shall be common stock, par value $0.01per share (the ""), and 10,000,000 shares shall be preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share (the "").  Subject to the rights of any holders of Preferred Stock, the number of authorized shares of Common Stock or Preferred Stock may be increased or decreased (but not below the number of shares thereof then outstanding) by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority in voting power of the stock of the Company entitled to vote thereon irrespective of the provisions of Section 242(b)(2) of the DGCL (or any successor provision thereto), and no vote of the holders of either the Common Stock or the Preferred Stock voting separately as a class shall be required therefor.
Common Stock
Preferred Stock
The designations, powers, preferences, rights and qualifications, limitations or restrictions of the Common Stock and Preferred Stock are as follows:  
(A)
Common Stock.
(1)
Each holder of Common Stock shall have one vote in respect of each share of such stock held of record by such stockholder.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, except as otherwise required by law, holders of Common Stock, as such, shall not be entitled to vote on any amendment to this
Certificate of Incorporation (including any Certificate of Designations relating to any series of Preferred Stock) that relates solely to the terms of one or more outstanding series of Preferred Stock if the holders of such affected series are entitled, either separately or together with the holders of one or more other such series, to vote thereon pursuant to this Certificate of Incorporation (including any Certificate of Designations relating to any series of Preferred Stock) or pursuant to the DGCL.
(2)
Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock, such dividends, if any, as may be determined by the Board of Directors may be declared by the Board of Directors and paid from time to time to the holders of the Common Stock.
(3)
Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock, in the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Company, whether voluntary or involuntary, all assets legally available for distribution to stockholders shall be divided and distributed among the holders of the Common Stock ratably according to the number of shares of Common Stock held.
(B)
Preferred Stock.
(1)
Shares of Preferred Stock may be issued from time to time in one or more series and with such designations for each such series as shall be stated and expressed in the resolution or resolutions providing for the issue of such series by the Board of Directors.  The Board of Directors in any such resolution or resolutions is expressly authorized to state and express for each such series:
(i)
the number of shares constituting such series and any increase or decrease (but not below the number of shares of such series then outstanding) in the number of shares of any series subsequent to the original issue of shares of that series;
(ii)
the voting powers, if any, of stock of such series;
(iii)
the rate and time at which, and the terms and conditions upon which, dividends, if any, on such series shall be paid, the extent of the preference or relation, if any, of such dividends to the dividends payable on any other class or classes, and whether such dividends shall be cumulative or non-cumulative and, if cumulative, the terms upon which such dividends shall be cumulative;
(iv)
whether such series shall be subject to redemption, and the redemption price or prices and the time or times at which, and the terms and conditions upon which, such series may be redeemed;
(v)
the rights, if any, of the holders of stock of such series upon the voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company;
(vi)
the terms of the sinking fund or redemption or purchase account, if any, to be provided for such series;
(vii)
the right, if any, of the holders of such series to convert shares of the same into, or exchange the same for, shares of any other class or classes or of any series of the same or any other class or classes of stock of the Company and the terms and conditions of such conversion or exchange; and
(viii)
any other designations, powers, preferences, limitations and relative rights thereof, so far as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Certificate and to the full extent now or hereafter permitted by the laws of Delaware.
ARTICLE V. ELECTION OF DIRECTORS
(A)
Subject to , hereof, the number of authorized members of the Board of Directors shall be determined from time to time by resolution adopted by the affirmative vote of a majority of the total number of directors which the Company would have if there were no vacancies but shall not be fewer than seven directors and not more than eleven directors.  Election of directors need not be by written ballot.
Article V
paragraph (F)
(B)
The directors, other than those directors elected by the holders of any series of Preferred Stock as provided for or fixed pursuant to the terms of any Certificate of Designations relating to such series of Preferred Stock, shall be divided into three classes, designated Class I, Class II and Class III, and each class shall consist, as nearly as may be possible, of one-third of the total number of directors constituting the Board of Directors.  Each director shall serve for a term ending on the date of the third annual meeting of stockholders following the annual meeting at which such director was elected; , , that the initial directors assigned to Class I shall serve for a term ending on the date of the first annual meeting next following May 18, 2010, the initial directors assigned to Class II shall serve for a term ending on the date of the second annual mee ting next following May18, 2010 and the initial directors assigned to Class III shall serve for a term ending on the date of the third annual meeting next following May 18, 2010.  The Board of Directors may assign members of the Board of Directors already in office to such classes.
provided
however
If the number of directors is changed, any increase or decrease shall be apportioned among the classes so as to maintain the number of directors in each class as nearly equal as possible, and any additional director of any class elected to fill a vacancy resulting from an increase in such class shall hold office for a term that shall coincide with the remaining term of that class, but in no case will a decrease in the number of directors shorten the term of any incumbent director except as otherwise provided in this Certificate of Incorporation (including
any Certificate of Designation relating to any series of Preferred Stock) relating to additional directors elected by the holders of one or more series of Preferred Stock.
(C)
A director shall hold office until the annual meeting of stockholders for the year in which his or her term expires and until his or her successor shall be elected and shall qualify, subject, however, to prior death, resignation, retirement, disqualification or removal from office.
(D)
Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock then outstanding, vacancies resulting from death, resignation, retirement, disqualification, removal from office or otherwise, and newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the number of authorized directors, may be filled only by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors, though less than a quorum of the Board of Directors, and a director so chosen shall hold office for a term expiring at the annual meeting of stockholders at which the term of office of the class to which such director has been elected expires and until such director's successor has been duly elected and qualified.
(E)
Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock then outstanding, any director may be removed, but only for cause, at any special meeting of the stockholders called for that purpose, by the affirmative vote of the holders of 66 percent of the voting power of the outstanding shares of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors.
(F)
During any period when the holders of any series of Preferred Stock have the right to elect additional directors as provided for or fixed pursuant to the provisions of any Certificate of Designations relating to such series of Preferred Stock, then upon commencement and for the duration of the period during which such right continues (i) the then otherwise total authorized number of directors of the Company shall automatically be increased by such specified number of directors, and the holders of such Preferred Stock shall be entitled to elect the additional directors so provided for or fixed pursuant to said provisions, and (ii) each such additional director shall serve until such director's successor shall have been duly elected and qualified, or until such director's right to hold such office terminates pursuant to said provisions, whichever occurs earlier, subject to his earlier death, disqualification, resignation or removal.  Except as otherwise provided by the Board of Directors in the resolution or resolutions establishing such series, whenever the holders of any series of Preferred Stock having such right to elect additional directors are divested of such right pursuant to the provisions of such stock, the terms of office of all such additional directors elected by the holders of such stock, or elected to fill any vacancies resulting from the death, resignation, disqualification or removal of such additional directors, shall forthwith terminate and the total and authorized number of directors of the Company shall be reduced accordingly.
ARTICLE VI. AMENDMENT OF BYLAWS
The Bylaws may be adopted, amended or repealed (A) by the Board of Directors or (B) by the affirmative vote of a majority of the outstanding voting power entitled to vote generally in the election of directors; , , that in the case of clause (B), notice of the proposed amendment is contained in the notice of the meeting.  In addition to any vote
provided
however
required by any other provision of the Bylaws, this Certificate of Incorporation or any applicable law, if such amendment is to be adopted by the stockholders, the affirmative vote of holders of eighty percent of the outstanding voting power entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class, shall be required for any amendment to the Bylaws that amends or repeals, or adopts any provisions inconsistent with Section 2.7(F), Article III, Article VIII or Section 9.10 thereof.
ARTICLE VII. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS
(A)
The affirmative vote of the holders of not less than eighty percent of the outstanding voting power entitled to vote generally in the election of directors shall be required for the approval or authorization of any "Business Combination" (as hereinafter defined) involving a "Related Person" (as hereinafter defined); , , that the eighty percent voting requirement shall not be applicable if:
provided
however
(1)
The "Continuing Directors" (as hereinafter defined) of the Company by a two-thirds vote have expressly approved such Business Combination either in advance of or subsequent to such Related Person having become a Related Person; or
(2)
The following conditions are satisfied:
(i)
The aggregate amount of the cash and the "Fair Market Value" (as hereinafter defined) of the property, securities or "OtherConsideration" (as hereinafter defined) to be received per share by all holders of capital stock of the Company in the Business Combination, other than the Related Person involved in the Business Combination, is not less than the "Highest Per Share Price" or the "Highest Equivalent Price" (each as hereinafter defined) paid by the Related Person in acquiring any of its holdings of the Company's capital stock; and
(ii)
A proxy statement complying with the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the ""), whether or not the Company is then subject to such requirements shall have been mailed to all stockholders of the Company for the purpose of soliciting stockholder approval of the Business Combination.  The proxy statement shall contain at the front thereof, in a prominent place, the position of the Continuing Directors as to the advisability (or inadvisability) of the Business Combination and, if deemed advisable by a majority of the Continuing Directors, the opinion of an investment banking firm selected by the Continuing Directors as to the fairness of the terms of the Business Combination, from the point of view of the holders of the outstanding shares of capital stock of the Company other than any Related Person.  
Exchange Act
Subject to the provisions of paragraph (G) of this VII, such eighty percent vote shall be required notwithstanding the fact that no vote may be required or that a lesser percentage may be specified by law or in any agreement with any national securities exchange or otherwise.  
Article
(B)
For purposes of this VII:
Article
(1)
The term "" shall mean (i) any merger, consolidation or share exchange of the Company or a subsidiary of the Company with or into a Related Person, in each case without regard to which entity is the surviving entity; (ii) any sale, lease, exchange, transfer or other disposition, including without limitation a mortgage or any other security device, of all or any "Substantial Part" (as hereinafter defined) of the assets of the Company (including without limitation any voting securities of a subsidiary of the Company) or a subsidiary of the Company to or with a Related Person (whether in one transaction or series of transactions); (iii) any sale, lease, exchange, transfer or other disposition, including without limitation a mortgage or any other security device, of all or any Substantial Part of the assets of a Related Person to the C ompany or a subsidiary of the Company; (iv) the issuance, transfer or delivery of any securities of the Company or a subsidiary of the Company by the Company or any of its subsidiaries to a Related Person (other than an issuance or transfer of securities which is effected on a pro rata basis to all stockholders of the Company); (v) any recapitalization or reclassification of securities (including any reverse stock split) that would have the effect of increasing the voting power of a Related Person; (vi) the issuance or transfer by a Related Person of any securities of such Related Person to the Company or a subsidiary of the Company (other than an issuance or transfer of securities which is effected on a pro rata basis to all stockholders of the Related Person); (vii) the adoption of any plan or proposal for the liquidation or dissolution of the Company proposed by or on behalf of a Related Person; or (viii) any agreement, plan, contract or other arrangement providing for any of the transactions described in this definition of Business Combination.  
Business Combination
(2)
The term "" shall mean a director who is unaffiliated with any Related Person and either (i) was a member of the Board of Directors of the Company immediately prior to the time the Related Person involved in a Business Combination became a Related Person or (ii) was designated (before his or her initial election or appointment as Director) as a Continuing Director by a majority of the then Continuing Directors.  
Continuing Director
(3)
The term "" shall mean (i) in the case of stock, the highest closing sale price during the 30-day period immediately preceding the date in question of a share of such stock on the Composite Tape for New York Stock Exchange-Listed Stocks, or, if such stock is not quoted on the Composite Tape, on the New York Stock Exchange, or if such
Fair Market Value
stock is not listed on such exchange, on the principal United States securities exchange registered under the Exchange Act on which such stock is listed, or, if such stock is not listed on any such exchange, the highest closing bid quotation with respect to a share of such stock during the 30-day period preceding the date in question on the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotation System or any system then in use, or if no such quotations are available, the fair market value on the date in question of a share of such stock as determined by a two-thirds vote of the Continuing Directors in good faith; and (ii) in the case of property other than stock or cash, the fair market value of such property on the date in question as determined by a two-thirds vote of the Continuing Directors in good faith.  
(4)
The terms "" and "" shall mean the following:  if there is only one class of capital stock of the Company issued and outstanding, the Highest Per Share Price shall mean the highest price that can be determined to have been paid at any time by the Related Person for any share or shares of that class of capital stock.  If there is more than one class of capital stock of the Company issued and outstanding, the Highest Equivalent Price shall mean with respect to each class and series of capital stock of the Company, the amount determined by a majority of the Continuing Directors, on whatever basis they believe is appropriate, to be the highest per share price equivalent of the Highest Per Share Price that can be determined to have been paid at any time by the Related Person for any share or shares of any cl ass or series of capital stock of the Company.  In determining the Highest Per Share Price and Highest Equivalent Price, all purchases by the Related Person shall be taken into account regardless of whether the shares were purchased before or after the Related Person became a Related Person.  Also, the Highest Per Share Price and the Highest Equivalent Price shall include any brokerage commissions, transfer taxes, soliciting dealers' fees and other expenses paid by the Related Person with respect to the shares of capital stock of the Company acquired by the Related Person.  In the case of any Business Combination with a Related Person, the Continuing Directors shall determine the Highest Per Share Price and the Highest Equivalent Price for each class and series of capital stock of the Company.  
Highest Per Share Price
Highest Equivalent Price
(5)
The term "" shall include, without limitation, Common Stock or other capital stock of the Company retained by stockholders of the Company other than Related Persons or parties to such Business Combination in the event of a Business Combination in which the Company is the surviving corporation.
Other Consideration
(6)
The term "" shall mean and include any individual, partnership, corporation or other person or entity which, as of the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to notice of and to vote on any Business Combination, or immediately prior to the consummation
Related Person
of such transaction, together with its "Affiliates" and "Associates" (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act as in effect at the date of the adoption of this VII by the stockholders of the Company), are "Beneficial Owners" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 of the Exchange Act) in the aggregate of 10% or more of the outstanding shares of any class of capital stock of the Company, and any Affiliate or Associate of any such individual, corporation, partnership or other person or entity.  Notwithstanding any provision of Rule 13d-3 to the contrary, an entity shall be deemed to be the Beneficial Owner of any share of capital stock of the Company that such entity has the right to acquire at any time pursuant to any agreement, or upon exercise of conversion rights, warrants or options, or otherwise.  
Article
(7)
The term "" shall mean more than 20% of the fair market value, as determined by two-thirds of the Continuing Directors, of the total consolidated assets of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole as of the end of its most recent fiscal year ended prior to the time the determination is being made.  
Substantial Part
(C)
The determinations of the Continuing Directors as to Fair Market Value, Highest Per Share Price, Highest Equivalent Price, and the existence of a Related Person or a Business Combination shall be conclusive and binding.  
(D)
Nothing contained in this VII shall be construed to relieve any Related Person from any fiduciary obligation imposed by law.  
Article
(E)
The fact that any Business Combination complies with the provisions of of this VII shall not be construed to impose any fiduciary duty, obligation or responsibility on the Board of Directors, or any member thereof, to approve such Business Combination or recommend its adoption or approval to the stockholders of the Company, nor shall such compliance limit, prohibit or otherwise restrict in any manner the Board of Directors, or any member thereof, with respect to evaluations of or actions and responses taken with respect to such Business Combination.  
paragraph (A)(2)
Article
(F)
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Certificate of Incorporation or the Bylaws of the Company, the affirmative vote of not less than eighty percent of the outstanding voting power entitled to vote generally in the election of directors shall be required to amend, alter, change or repeal, or adopt any provisions inconsistent with, this VII.
Article
(G)
Notwithstanding any provision of this Certificate of Incorporation or the Bylaws of the Company to the contrary, in the event that a Business Combination under this VIIrequires a stockholder vote under Section 203 of the DGCL, this VII shall be deemed not to require a greater vote of stockholders than that specified by Section 203 of the DGCL.
Article
Article
ARTICLE VIII. STOCKHOLDER ACTION BY WRITTEN CONSENT
Any action required or permitted to be taken at any annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Company may be taken without a meeting, without prior notice and without a vote, if a consent or consents in writing, setting forth the action so taken, shall be signed by the holders of outstanding stock having not less than the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to authorize or take such action at a meeting at which all shares entitled to vote thereon were present and voted and shall be delivered to the Company by delivery to its registered office in the State of Delaware, its principal place of business, or an officer or agent of the Company having custody of the books in which proceedings of meetings of stockholders are recorded; , , at any time when Questar Corporation is the record owner, in the aggregate, of less than all of the voting power of all outstanding shar es of stock of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, any action required or permitted to be taken at any annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Company must be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting of such holders and may not be effected by any consent in writing by such holders; , , that any action required or permitted to be taken by the holders of Preferred Stock, voting separately as a series or separately as a class with one or more other such series, may be taken without a meeting, without prior notice and without a vote, to the extent expressly so provided by the applicable Certificate of Designations relating to such series of Preferred Stock.  
provided
however
provided
however
ARTICLE IX. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY
No director of the Company shall be personally liable to the Company or its stockholders for monetary damages for any breach of fiduciary duty by such director as a director, except for liability (i) for any breach of the director's duty of loyalty to the Company or its stockholders; (ii) for acts or omissions not in good faith or that involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law; (iii) for any transaction from which the director derived an improper personal benefit; or (iv) for any action that would result in statutory liability of the director under Section 174 of the DGCL.  
If the DGCL is hereafter amended to authorize corporate action further limiting or eliminating the personal liability of directors, then the liability of the director to the Company shall be limited or eliminated to the fullest extent permitted by the DGCL, as so amended from time to time.  Any repeal or modification of this paragraph by the stockholders shall be prospective only and shall not adversely affect any limitation on the personal liability of a director of the Company for acts or omissions occurring prior to the effective date of such repeal or modification.
ARTICLE X. AMENDMENT OF CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION
The Company reserves the right to amend, alter, change or repeal any provision contained in this Certificate of Incorporation in the manner now or hereafter prescribed by statute, and all rights conferred upon stockholders herein are granted subject to this reservation.  
Notwithstanding the foregoing, and in addition to any other provision of this Certificate of Incorporation, the Bylaws or any applicable law, the affirmative vote of eighty percent of the outstanding voting power entitled to vote generally in the election of directors shall be required to amend, alter, change or repeal, or adopt any provisions inconsistent with, V, VI, VII, VIII, IX and X.
Articles

Exhibit 3.2
ARTICLE I. OFFICES AND RECORDS
Section 1.1
 The Company may have offices, either within or without the State of Delaware, as the Board of Directors may from time to time appoint or as the business of the Company may require.
Offices.
Section 1.2
The books and records of the Company may be kept at such location(s) as may from time to time be designated by the Board of Directors.
Books and Records.  
ARTICLE II. STOCKHOLDERS
Section 2.1
If required by law, the annual meeting of stockholders shall be held at such date and time as shall be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors and stated in the notice of the meeting, at which stockholders shall elect directors and transact such other business as may properly be brought before the meeting.
Annual Meeting.  
Section 2.2
 Special meetings of the stockholders, for any proper purpose or purposes, may be called at any time only by (A) the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by the affirmative vote of a majority of the total number of directors which the Company would have if there were no vacancies (the ""); (B) the Chairman of the Board; or (C) the President, and shall be held at such place, if any, on such date and at such time as they shall fix.  Business transacted at all special meetings of the stockholders shall be confined to the purposes stated in the notice.
Special Meetings.
Whole Board
Section 2.3
All stockholders meetings shall be held at the office of the Company in Denver, Colorado, or any other location within the United States, or by means of remote communication, as the Board of Directors may fix.
Place of Meetings.  
Section 2.4
The Secretary shall give, but in case of his or her failure, any other officer of the Company may give, written or printed notice, stating the place, if any, day and hour of each stockholder meeting, the means of remote communications, if any, by which stockholders and proxy holders may be deemed to be present in person and vote at such meeting, the record date for determining the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, if such date is different from the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of the meeting, and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called, to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at such meeting as of the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of the meeting.  Such notice shall be given not less than ten (10) nor more than sixty (60) days b efore the date of the meeting, and may be given
Notice of Meetings.  
personally, by mail or private carrier, by electronic transmission, or by any other means recognized under applicable state and federal law.  If given by mail, such notice shall be deemed to be delivered when deposited in the United States mail or private carrier, addressed to the stockholder at such address as it appears on the stock transfer books of the Company, with postage prepaid.  Meetings may be held without notice if all stockholders entitled to vote are present (except as otherwise provided by law), or if notice is waived by those not present.  Any previously scheduled stockholders meeting may be postponed and (unless the certificate of incorporation of the Company, as amended and restated from time to time (including any certificates of designation with respect to any preferred stock, the "") otherwise provides) any special meeting of the stockholders may be cancelled by resolution of the Board of Directors upon public notice given prior to the time previously scheduled for such stockholders meeting.
Certificate of Incorporation
Section 2.5
 Except as otherwise provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, a majority of the outstanding voting power entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at all stockholders meetings for the transaction of business; , , that when specified business is to be voted on by a class or series voting separately as a class or series, a majority of the outstanding voting power of the shares of such class or series shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of such business.  If a quorum is present at any stockholders meeting, such quorum shall not be broken by the withdrawal of enough stockholders to leave less than a quorum and the remaining stockholders may continue to transact business until adjournment. Whether or not a quoru m is present, the holders of a majority of the outstanding voting power of the shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote thereon shall have the power to adjourn the meeting from time to time (or, in the case of specified business to be voted on by a class or series, a majority of the outstanding voting power of such class or series present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote thereon may adjourn the meeting with respect to such specified business).  If the adjournment is for more than thirty (30) days, a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting.  If after the adjournment a new record date for determination of stockholders entitled to vote is fixed for the adjourned meeting, the Board of Directors shall fix as the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of such adjourned meeting the same or an earlier date as that fixed for determination of stockholders entitled to vote at the adjourned meet ing, and shall give notice of the adjourned meeting to each stockholder of record as of the record date so fixed for notice of such adjourned meeting.  At any adjourned meeting at which a quorum is present in person or represented by proxy, the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting may transact any business that might have been transacted at the meeting as originally noticed.  
Quorum and Adjournment.
provided
however
Section 2.6
Notice of Stockholder Business and Director Nominations.
(A)
.  ()
Annual Meeting of Stockholders
Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors (except as otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation with respect to directors to be elected by the holders of any class or series of preferred stock) and the proposal of other business to be considered by the stockholders may be made at an annual meeting of stockholders only (i) pursuant to the Company's notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto), (ii) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors (or any duly authorized
2
committee thereof), or (iii) by any stockholder of the Company who (a) was a stockholder of record (and, with respect to any beneficial owner, if different, on whose behalf such business is proposed, only if such beneficial owner was the beneficial owner of shares of the Company) at the time of giving of notice provided for in this Section 2.6 and at the time of the annual meeting, (b) is entitled to vote at the meeting and (c) complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 2.6 as to such nomination or other business. Other than matters properly brought under Rule 14a-8 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (including any rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, the ""), and included in the Company's notice of meeting given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, the foregoing  shall be the exclusive means for a stockholder to make nominations and submit other business before an annual meeting of stockholders.  Stockholders shall not be permitted to propose business to be brought before a special meeting of the stockholders, and the only matters that may be brought before a special meeting are the matters specified in the notice of meeting given by or at the direction of the person calling the meeting pursuant to Section 2.2.
Exchange Act
cla use (iii)
(2)
Without qualification, for any nominations or other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder pursuant to Section 2.6, the stockholder must provide timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Company and provide any updates or supplements to such notice at the times and in the forms required by this Section 2.6, and any such proposed business other than the nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors must constitute a proper matter for stockholder action.  To be timely, a stockholder's notice to the Secretary must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Company not later than the close of business on the ninetieth (90) day, nor earlier than the close of business on the one hundred twentieth (120) day, prior to the first anniversary of the immediately preceding year's annual meeting; , , that in the event that the annual meeting is called for a date that is more than thirty (30) days before or more than sixty (60) days after such anniversary date, or in the case of the first annual meeting of stockholders following the effectiveness of this Section 2.6, notice by the stockholder must be so delivered not earlier than the close of business on the one hundred twentieth (120) day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the ninetieth (90) day prior to such annual meeting or, if the first public announcement of the date of such annual meeting is less than one hundred (100) days prior to the date of such annual meeting, the tenth (10) day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made by the Company. In no event shall any adjournment or postponement of an annual meeting or the publ ic announcement thereof commence a new time period (or extend any time period) for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.  
(A)(1)(iii)
th
th
provided
however
th
th
th
(3)
To be in proper written form, a stockholder's notice must:
(i)
set forth, as to each Proposing Person (as defined below) (a) the name and address of such Proposing Person (as they appear on the Company's books if such Proposing Person is a record holder); (b) (A) the class or series and number of shares of the Company which are, directly or indirectly, beneficially owned (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) and of record by such Proposing Person, except that such Proposing Person shall in all events be deemed to beneficially own any shares of any class or series of the Company as to which such Proposing Person has a right to acquire beneficial ownership at any time in the future, (B) any option, warrant, convertible security, stock appreciation right or
3
similar right with an exercise or conversion privilege or a settlement payment or mechanism at a price related to any class or series of shares of the Company or with a value derived in whole or in part from the value of any class or series of shares of the Company (a "") directly or indirectly owned beneficially by such Proposing Person, and any other direct or indirect opportunity to profit or share in any profit derived from any increase or decrease in the value of shares of the Company, whether or not (x) such Derivative Instrument shall be subject to settlement in the underlying class or series of capital stock of the Company or otherwise, (y) such Derivative Instrument conveys any voting rights in the underlying class or series of capital stock of the Company or (z) such Proposing Person may have entered into other transactions that hedge or mitigate the economic effect of such Derivative Instrument, (C) any proxy (other than a revocable proxy or consent given solely in response to a solicitation made pursuant to, and in accordance with, Section 14(a) of the Exchange Act by way of a solicitation statement filed on Schedule 14A), contract, arrangement, understanding, or relationship pursuant to which such Proposing Person has a right to vote any shares of any security of the Company, (D) any short interest in any security of the Company (for purposes of this Section 2.6 a Proposing Person shall be deemed to have a short interest in a security if such Proposing Person directly or indirectly, through any contract, arrangement, understanding, relationship or otherwise, has the opportunity to profit or share in any profit derived from any decrease in the value of the subject security), (E) any rights to dividends on the shares of the Company owned beneficially by such Proposing Person that are separated or separable from the underlying shares of the Company, (F) any proportionate interest in shares of the Company or Derivative Instruments held, directly or indirectly, by a general or limited partnership in which such Proposing Partner is a general partner or, directly or indirectly, beneficially owns an interest in a general partner, (G) any performance-related fees (other than an asset-based fee) that such Proposing Person is entitled to based on any increase or decrease in the value of shares of the Company or Derivative Instruments, if any, as of the date of such notice, including without limitation any such interests held by members of such Proposing Person's immediate family sharing the same household, (H) if such Proposing Person is not a natural person, the identity of the natural person or persons associated with such Proposing Person responsible for the formulation of and decision to propose the business to be brought before the meeting (such person or persons, the " "), the manner in which such Responsible Person was selected, any fiduciary duties owed by such Responsible Person to the equity holders or other beneficiaries of such Proposing Person, the qualifications and background of such Responsible Person and any material interests or relationships of such Responsible Person that are not shared generally by all other record or beneficial holders of the shares of any class or series of the Company and that reasonably could have influenced the decision of such Proposing Person to propose such business to be brought before the meeting, and (y) if such Proposing Person is a natural person, the qualifications and background of such natural person and any material interests or relationships of such natural person that are not shared generally by any other record or beneficial holder of the shares of any class or series of the Company and that reasonably could have influenced the decision of such Proposing Person to propose such business to be brought before the m eeting, (I) any significant equity interests or any Derivative Instruments or short interests in any principal competitor of the Company held by such Proposing Person, (J) any direct or indirect interest of such Proposing Person in any contract with the Company, any affiliate of the Company or any principal competitor of the Company (including, in any such case, any employment agreement, collective bargaining agreement or consulting agreement),
Derivative Instrument
Responsible Person
4
(K) any pending or threatened litigation in which such Proposing Person is a party or material participant involving the Company or any of its officers or directors, or any affiliate of the Company, (L) any material transaction occurring during the prior twelve months between such Proposing Person, on the one hand, and the Company, any affiliate of the Company or any principal competitor of the Company, on the other hand, (M) a summary of any material discussions regarding the business proposed to bebrought before the meeting (x) between or among any of the Proposing Persons or (y) between or among any Proposing Person and any other record or beneficial holder of the shares of any class or series of the Company (including their names) (the disclosures to be made pursuant to the foregoing through are referred to as ""); , , that Disclosable Interests shall not include any such disclosures with respect to the ordinary course business activities of any broker, dealer, commercial bank, trust company or other nominee who is a Proposing Person solely as a result of being the stockholder directed to prepare and submit the notice required by these Bylaws on behalf of a beneficial owner; (c) any other information relating to such Proposing Person that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for, as applicable, the proposal and/or for the election of directors in a contested election pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder; (d) a representation whether such Proposing Person intends or is part of a group which intends (A) to deliver a proxy statement and/or form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of th e Company's outstanding capital stock required to approve or adopt the proposal or elect the nominee and/or (B) otherwise to solicit proxies from stockholders in support of such proposal or nomination; and (e) a representation that the stockholder is a holder of record of stock of the Company entitled to vote at such meeting and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to propose such business or nomination;
clauses (B)
(M)
Disclosable Interests
provided
however
(ii)
if the notice relates to any business other than a nomination of a director or directors that the stockholder proposes to bring before the meeting, set forth (a) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting (including the text of any resolutions proposed for consideration and in the event that such business includes a proposal to amend the Bylaws of the Company, the language of the proposed amendment), the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material interest of such Proposing Person in such business and (b) a description of all agreements, arrangements and understandings between such Proposing Person and any other person or persons (including their names) in connection with the proposal of such business by such Proposing Person;
(iii)
set forth, as to each person, if any, whom the Proposing Person proposes to nominate for election or reelection to the Board of Directors (a) all information relating to such person that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for election of directors in a contested election pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (including such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected) and (b) a description of all direct and indirect compensation and other material monetary agreements, arrangements and understandings during the past three years, and any other material relationships, between or among such Proposing Person and its respective affiliates and associates , or others acting in concert therewith, on the one hand, and each proposed nominee, and his or her respective affiliates and associates, or others acting in concert therewith, on the other hand, including,
5
without limitation all information that would be required to be disclosed pursuant to Rule 404 promulgated under Regulation S-K if the Proposing Person or any affiliate or associate thereof or person acting in concert therewith, were the "registrant" for purposes of such rule and the nominee were a director or executive officer of such registrant; and
(iv)
with respect to each nominee for election or reelection to the Board of Directors, include a completed and signed questionnaire, representation and agreement required by paragraph (D) of this Section 2.6. The Company may require any proposed nominee to furnish such other information as may reasonably be required by the Company to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as an independent director of the Company or that could be material to a reasonable stockholder's understanding of the independence, or lack thereof, of such nominee.
(4)
Notwithstanding anything in the second sentence of Section 2.6(A)( to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the Board of Directors at an annual meeting is increased and there is no public announcement by the Company naming the nominees for the additional directorships at least one hundred (100) days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a stockholder's notice required by this Section 2.6 shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for the additional directorships, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Company not later than the close of business on the tenth (10) day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the Company.
th
(B)
. Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Company's notice of meeting.  Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at a special meeting of stockholders at which directors are to be elected pursuant to the Company's notice of meeting (1) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors (or a duly authorized committee thereof) or (2) provided that the Board of Directors has determined that directors shall be elected at such meeting, by any stockholder of the Company who (i) is a stockholder of record (and, with respect to any beneficial owner, if different, on whose behalf such business is proposed, only if such beneficial owner was the beneficial owner of shares of the Company) at the time of giving of notice provided for in this Section 2.6 and at the time of the special meeting, (ii) is entitled to vote at the meeting and (iii) complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 2.6 as to such nomination.  In the event the Company calls a special meeting of stockholders for the purpose of electing one or more directors to the Board of Directors, any such stockholder entitled to vote in such election of directors may nominate a person or persons (as the case may be) for election to such position(s) as specified in the Company's notice of meeting, if the stockholder's notice required by and of this Section 2.6 with respect to any nomination (including the completed and signed questionnaire, representation and agreement required by of this Section 2.6) shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Company not earlier than the close of business on the one hundred twentieth (120
Special Meetings of Stockholders
paragraphs (A)(2)
(A)(3)
paragraph (D)
th
) day prior to such special meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the ninetieth (90
th
) day prior to such special meeting or if the first public announcement of the date of such special meeting is less than one hundred (100) days prior to the date of such special meeting, the tenth (10
th
) day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the
6
nominees proposed by the Board of Directors to be elected at such meeting.  In no event shall any adjournment or postponement of a special meeting or the public announcement thereof commence a new time period (or extend any time period) for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
(C)
. () Only such persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 2.6 shall be eligible to be elected at an annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Company to serve as directors and only such business shall be conducted at a stockholders meeting as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 2.6.  Except as otherwise provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, the chairman of the meeting shall have the power and duty (i) to determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made or proposed, as the case may be, in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 2.6 (including whether the Proposing Person solicited (or is part of a group which solicited) or did not so solicit, as the case may be, proxies in support of such Proposing Person's nominee or proposal in compliance with such Proposing Person's representation as required by of this Section 2.6) and (ii) if any proposed nomination or business was not made or proposed in compliance with this Section 2.6, to declare that such nomination shall be disregarded or that such proposed business shall not be transacted.  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 2.6, unless otherwise required by law, if the stockholder (or a qualified representative of the stockholder) does not appear at the annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Company to present a nomination or proposed business, such nomination shall be disregarded and such proposed business shall not be transacted, notwithstanding that proxies in respect of such vote may have been received by the Company.  For purposes of this Section 2.6, to be considered a qualified representative of the stockholder, a person must be authorized by a writing executed by such stockholder or an electronic transmission delivered by such stockholder to act for such stockholder as proxy at the meeting of stockholders and such person must produce such writing or electronic transmission, or a reliable reproduction of the writing or electronic transmission, at the meeting of stockholders.
General
clause (A)(3)(i)(d)
(2)
For purposes of this Section 2.6, "" shall include disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
public announcement
(3)
For purposes of this Section 2.6, the term ""shall mean (i) the stockholder providing the notice of the nomination or other business proposed to be brought before a meeting, (ii) the beneficial owner or beneficial owners, if different, on whose behalf the notice of the nomination or other business proposed to be brought before the meeting is made and (iii) any affiliate or associate (each within the meaning of Rule 12b-2 under the Exchange Act for purposes of these Bylaws) of such stockholder or beneficial owner.
Proposing Person
(4)
A stockholder providing notice of any nomination or other business proposed to be brought before a stockholder meeting shall further update and supplement such notice, if necessary, so that the information provided or required to be provided in such notice pursuant to this Section 2.6 shall be true and correct as of the record date for the
7
meeting and as of the date that is ten (10) business days prior to the meeting or any adjournment or postponement thereof, and such update and supplement shall be delivered to, or mailed and received by, the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Company not later than five (5) business days after the record date for the meeting (in the case of the update and supplement required to be made as of the record date), and not later than eight (8) business days prior to the date for the meeting or, if practicable, any adjournment or postponement thereof (and, if not practicable, on the first practicable date prior to the date to which the meeting has been adjourned or postponed) (in the case of the update and supplement required to be made as of ten (10) business days prior to the meeting or any adjournment or postponement thereof).
(5)
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 2.6, a stockholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act with respect to the matters set forth in this Section 2.6; , , that any references in these Bylaws to the Exchange Act or the rules promulgated thereunder are not intended to and shall not limit the requirements applicable to nominations or proposals to any other business to be considered pursuant to Section 2.6.  Nothing in this Section 2.6 shall be deemed to affect any rights (i) of stockholders to request inclusion of proposals or nominations in the Company's proxy statement pursuant to applicable rules and regulations promulgated under the Exchange Act or (ii) of the holders of any series of preferred stock to elect directors pursuant to any applicable provisions of the Certificate of Incorporatio n or these Bylaws.
provided
however
(D)
.  To be eligible to be a nominee for election or reelection as a director of the Company, a person must deliver (in accordance with the time periods prescribed for delivery of notice under this Section 2.6) to the Secretary of the Company at the principal executive offices of the Company a written questionnaire with respect to the background and qualification of such person and the background of any other person or entity on whose behalf the nomination is being made (which questionnaire shall be provided by the Secretary upon written request) and a written representation and agreement (in the form provided by the Secretary upon written request) that such person (1) is not and will not become a party to (i) any agreement, arrangement or understanding with, and has not given any commitment or assurance to, any person or entity as to how such person, if elected as a director of the Company, will act or vote on any issue or question (a "") that has not been disclosed to the Company or (ii) any Voting Commitment that could limit or interfere with such person's ability to comply, if elected as a director of the Company, with such person's fiduciary duties under applicable law; (2) is not and will not become a party to any agreement, arrangement or understanding with any person or entity other than the Company with respect to any direct or indirect compensation, reimbursement or indemnification in connection with service or action as a director that has not been disclosed therein and (3) in such person's individual capacity and on behalf of any person or entity on whose behalf the nomination is being made, would be in compliance, if elected as a director of the Company, and will comply with all applicable publicly disclosed corporate governance, conflict of inte rest, confidentiality and stock ownership and trading policies and guidelines of the Company.
Submission of Questionnaire, Representation and Agreement
Voting Commitment
Section 2.7
Voting of Shares.  
(A)
.The officer who has charge of the stock ledger shall prepare
Voting Lists
 
8
and make, at least ten (10) days before every stockholders meeting, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting; , , if the record date for determining the stockholders entitled to vote is less than ten (10) days before the meeting date, the list shall reflect the stockholders entitled to vote as of the tenth day before the meeting date, arranged in alphabetical order, and showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder. Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, at least ten (10) days prior to the meeting (1) on a reasonably accessible electronic network, provided that the information required to gain access to such list is provided with the notice of meeting or (2) during ordinary business hours at t he principal place of business of the Company.  The list of stockholders must also be open to examination at the meeting as required by applicable law, and may be inspected by any stockholder who is present.  Except as otherwise provided by law, the stock ledger shall be the only evidence as to who are the stockholders entitled to examine the list of stockholders required by this Section 2.7(A) or to vote in person or by proxy at any stockholders meeting.  Failure to comply with the requirements of this Section 2.7(A) shall not affect the validity of any action taken at said meeting.
provided
however
(B)
.  Except as otherwise provided by or pursuant to the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation, each stockholder shall have one vote for each share of stock registered in the stockholder's name on the books of the Company as of the record date set for such meeting.  
Votes Per Share
(C)
.  At any stockholders meeting, each stockholder entitled to vote may vote in person or by proxy as provided herein.  Voting at any stockholder meeting need not be by ballot.
Manner of Voting
(D)
.  At any stockholder meeting, each stockholder having the right to vote or to express consent without a meeting, or such stockholder's duly authorized attorney-in-fact, shall be entitled to vote by proxy.  Each proxy shall be in writing, executed by the stockholder giving the proxy, or by such stockholder's duly authorized attorney-in-fact, or electronically transmitted to the proxy holder in a manner such that it can be determined that the transmission was authorized by the stockholder. No proxy shall be voted on or after three years from its date, unless the proxy provides for a longer period.  The proxy must be filed with the Secretary of the Company or such stockholder's representative at or before the time of the meeting.  Unless and until voted, every proxy shall be revocable at the pleasure of the person who executed it, or such person&# 146;s legal representatives or assigns, except in those cases where an irrevocable proxy permitted by statute has been given.
Proxies
(E)
.  Except as otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation, all elections of directors shall be determined by a plurality of the votes cast at any meeting at which a quorum is present.  Except as otherwise provided by the Certificate of Incorporation, these Bylaws, the rules and regulations of any stock exchange applicable to the Company, or any other law or regulation applicable to the Company or its securities, all other matters shall be determined by the affirmative vote of a majority of the outstanding voting power of the shares present in person or represented by proxy and entitled to vote on the matter.
Required Vote
(F)
.  Any action required or permitted
Stockholder Action by Written Consent
9
to be taken at any annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Company may be taken without a meeting, without prior notice and without a vote, if a consent or consents in writing, setting forth the action so taken, shall be signed by the holders of outstanding stock having not less than the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to authorize or take such action at a meeting at which all shares entitled to vote thereon were present and voted and shall be delivered to the Company by delivery to its registered office in the State of Delaware, its principal place of business, or an officer or agent of the Company having custody of the books in which proceedings of meetings of stockholders are recorded; ,, at any time when Questar Corporation is the record owner, in the aggregate, of less than all of the voting power of all outstanding shar es of stock of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, any action required or permitted to be taken at any annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Company must be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting of such holders and may not be effected by any consent in writing by such holders; ,, that any action required or permitted to be taken by the holders of preferred stock, voting separately as a series or separately as a class with one or more other such series, may be taken without a meeting, without prior notice and without a vote, to the extent expressly so provided by the applicable certificate of designations relating to such series of preferred stock.  Delivery made to the Company shall be by hand or by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested.  So long as action by written consent is permitted by this Section 2.7(F), every written consent shall bear the date of signature of each stockholder who signs the consent and no written consent shall be effective to take the corporate action referred to therein unless, within sixty days of the earliest dated consent delivered in the manner required by this Section 2.7(F) to the Company, written consents signed by a sufficient number of holders to take action are delivered to the Company.
provided
however
provided
however
(G)
.  The Board of Directors by resolution shall, if required by law, appoint one or more inspectors, which inspector or inspectors may include individuals who serve the Company in other capacities, including, without limitation, as officers, employees, agents or representatives of the Company, to act at the meeting and make a written report thereof.  One or more persons may be designated as alternate inspectors to replace any inspector who fails to act.  If no inspector or alternate has been appointed to act, or if all inspectors or alternates who have been appointed are unable to act, at a stockholders meeting, the chairman of the meeting shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting.  Each inspector, before discharging his or her duties, shall take and sign an oath faithfully to execute the duties of inspector with strict impartial ity and according to the best of his or her ability.  The inspectors shall have the duties prescribed by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "").
Inspectors of Elections
DGCL
(H)
.  The chairman of the meeting shall fix and announce at the meeting the date and time of the opening and the closing of the polls for each matter upon which the stockholders will vote at a meeting.
Opening and Closing the Polls
ARTICLE III. BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Section 3.1
 The business and affairs of the Company shall be managed by or under the direction of the Board of Directors.  In addition to the powers and
General Powers.
10
authority expressly conferred upon it by these Bylaws, the Board of Directors may exercise all such powers of the Company and do all such lawful acts and things as are not by statute of the State of Delaware, or by the Certificate of Incorporation, or by these Bylaws directed or required to be exercised or done by others.
Section 3.2
 The number of directors shall be determined from time to time by resolution adopted by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Whole Board but shall not be fewer than seven directors and not more than eleven directors.  The directors, other than those directors elected by the holders of any series of preferred stock as provided for or fixed pursuant to the terms of any certificate of designation with respect to such series of preferred stock, shall be divided into three classes, designated Class I, Class II and Class III, and each class shall consist, as nearly as may be possible, of one-third of the total number of directors constituting the Board of Directors.  If the number of directors is changed, any increase or decrease shall be apportioned among the classes so as to maintain the number of directors in each class as nearly equal as possible, and an y additional director of any class elected to fill a vacancy resulting from an increase in such class shall hold office for a term that shall coincide with the remaining term of that class, but in no case will a decrease in the number of directors shorten the term of any incumbent director except as otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation relating to additional directors elected by the holders of one or more series of preferred stock.  A director shall hold office until the annual meeting of stockholders for the year in which his term expires and until his successor shall be elected and shall qualify, subject, however, to prior death, resignation, retirement, disqualification or removal from office.
Number and Term.
Section 3.3
Any director may resign at any time by giving notice in writing or by electronic transmission to the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the President or the Secretary of the Company.  Such resignation shall take effect on the date of receipt of such notice or at any later time specified therein.  The acceptance of such resignation, unless otherwise required by the terms thereof, shall not be necessary to make it effective.
Resignation.  
Section 3.4
Subject to the rights of any series of preferred stock then outstanding, vacancies resulting from death, resignation, retirement, disqualification, removal from office or otherwise, and newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the number of authorized directors, may be filled only by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors, though less than a quorum of the Board of Directors, and a director so chosen shall hold office for a term expiring at the annual meeting of stockholders at which the term of office of the class to which such director has been elected expires and until such director's successor shall have been duly elected and qualified.  
Vacancies.  
Section 3.5
 Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of preferred stock then outstanding, any director may be removed, but only for cause, at any special meeting of the stockholders called for that purpose, by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a 66 percent of the outstanding voting power entitled to vote generally in the election of directors.
Removal.
Section 3.6
Directors, as such, shall not receive any salary for their services, but the Board of Directors by resolution shall fix the fees to be allowed and paid to directors, as such, for their services and provide for the payment of the expenses of the directors
Compensation.  
11
incurred by them in performing their duties.  Nothing herein contained, however, shall be considered to preclude any director from serving the Company in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor.  Fees to members of committees of the Board of Directors and expenses incurred by them in the performance of their duties shall also be fixed and allowed by resolution of the Board of Directors.  
ARTICLE IV. MEETINGS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Section 4.1
Regular meetings of the Board of Directors may be held without notice at such time and place, whether within or without Delaware, as shall from time to time be determined by the Board of Directors.
Regular Meetings.  
Section 4.2
 Special meetings of the Board of Directors shall be called at the request of the Chairman of the Board or the President or of two directors.  Such request shall state the purpose or purposes of the proposed meeting. Such meetings may be held at any place, whether within or without Delaware.  Notice of each such meeting shall be given to each director at least 24 hours prior to the meeting.  The notice shall set forth the time and place at which the meeting is to be held and the purpose or purposes thereof and may be given to each director in person, by telephone, by electronic transmission, or by any other means recognized under applicable law to the address for such director listed in the corporate records of the Company.  No such notice of any given meeting need be given to any director who waives notice thereof, either before or after the m eeting.
Special Meetings.
Section 4.3
At all meetings of the Board of Directors a majority of the directors shall be necessary and sufficient to constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. The act of a majority of the directors present at any meeting at which there is a quorum shall be the act of the Board of Directors, except as may be otherwise specifically provided by statute, by the Certificate of Incorporation, or by these Bylaws.
Quorum; Required Vote.  
Section 4.4
Unless the Certificate of Incorporation provides otherwise, any act required or permitted to be taken by the Board of Directors, or a committee thereof, may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board of Directors or such committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing or by electronic transmission and the writing or writings or electronic transmission or transmissions are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Company or the committee, as applicable.  A signed consent has the effect of a meeting vote and may be described as such in any document.
Action by Written Consent.  
ARTICLE V. COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD
Section 5.1
 The Board of Directors may, by resolution or resolutions, establish, name or dissolve one or more committees, each committee to consist of one or more of the directors of the Company.  For the avoidance of doubt, the Company opts to be governed by Section 141(c)(2) of the DGCL.  The Company shall have the following committees, which committees shall have and may exercise the following powers:
Establishment.
(A)
.  The Audit Committee shall from time to time, but no
Audit Committee
12
less than two times per year, meet to review and monitor the financial and cost accounting practices and procedures of the Company and all of its subsidiaries and to report its findings and recommendations to the Board of Directors for final action.  The duties of the Audit Committee shall be set forth in its Charter.
(B)
.  The Compensation Committee shall from time to time meet to review the various compensation plans, policies and practices of the Company and all of its subsidiaries and to report its findings and recommendations to the Board of Directors for final action.  The duties of the Compensation Committee shall be set forth in its Charter.
Compensation Committee
(C)
.  The Governance Committee shall from time to time meet to review and develop the corporate governance policies of the Company and all of its subsidiaries, to identify individuals qualified to become members of the Board of Directors, to select, or recommend that the Board of Directors select, the director nominees for the next annual meeting of stockholders, and to consider any nominations submitted by the stockholders to the Secretary in accordance with these Bylaws, the Company's corporate governance guidelines or applicable law.  The duties of the Governance Committee shall be set forth in its Charter.
Governance Committee
Section 5.2
 Any committee, to the extent permitted by law and to the extent provided in the resolution of the Board of Directors, shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the corporation, and may authorize the seal of the Company to be affixed to all papers which may require it.
Available Powers.
Section 5.3
No committee of the Board of Directors shall have the power or authority to (A) approve or adopt, or recommend to the stockholders, any action or matter expressly required by the DGCL to be submitted to stockholders for approval (other than the election and removal of directors) or (B) adopt, amend or repeal any provision in these Bylaws.
Unavailable Powers.  
Section 5.4
 The Board of Directors may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee.  In the absence or disqualification of a member of the committee, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not such member or members constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board of Directors to act at the meeting in place of any such absent or disqualified member.
Alternate Members.
Section 5.5
Time, place, and notice, if any, of meetings of a committee shall be determined by such committee.  At meetings of a committee, a majority of the number of members designated by the Board of Directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.  The act of a majority of the members present at any meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the committee, except as otherwise specifically provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws.  If a quorum is not present at a meeting of a committee, the members present may adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice
Procedures.  
13
other than an announcement at the meeting, until a quorum is present.  Each committee shall keep regular minutes for its proceedings and report the same to the Board of Directors when required.  
ARTICLE VI. OFFICERS
Section 6.1
The officers of the Company shall consist of such of the following as the Board of Directors shall from time to time elect or appoint: a Chairman of the Board, a President, a Chief Financial Officer, one or more Vice Presidents, a Secretary, an Assistant Secretary, a Treasurer and an Assistant Treasurer.  The Board of Directors may elect or appoint such other officers as it may deem necessary, and all officers shall exercise such powers and perform such duties as generally pertain to their respective officers, subject to the specific provisions of this .  Two or more offices may be held by the same person, and officers of the Company may simultaneously serve as officers of subsidiaries or divisions thereof.  The Chairman of the Board and the President shall be chosen by the directors from their own numbers.  The salaries of all officer s of the Company shall be fixed by the Board of Directors.
General.  
Article VI
Section 6.2
The Board of Directors shall elect or appoint officers of the Company at its first regular meeting after each annual meeting of stockholders.  If the election or appointment of officers shall not be held at such regular meeting, such election or appointment shall be held as soon thereafter as convenient.  Subject to Section 6.12, each officer shall hold office until such officer's successor shall have been duly elected and shall have qualified or until such officer's death or resignation.
Election and Term of Office.  
Section 6.3
The Chairman of the Board shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors.  He or she shall have supervision of such matters as may be designated to him by the Board of Directors.
Chairman of the Board.  
Section 6.4
 Unless another officer is so designated by the Board of Directors, the President shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Company and shall perform the following duties:
President.
(A)
In the absence of the Chairman of the Board, the President shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors.
(B)
The President shall have general and active management of the business of the Company, and see that all orders and resolutions of the Board of Directors are carried into effect.
(C)
The President shall execute bonds, mortgages and other contracts requiring the seal, under the seal of the Company.  
(D)
The President shall have the general powers and duties of supervision and management usually vested in the office of a president of a corporation.
If another officer is designated by the Board of Directors as Chief Executive Officer, the President shall have supervision of such matters as shall be designated to him or her by the
14
Board of Directors and/or the Chief Executive Officer.
Section 6.5
The Chief Financial Officer shall have responsibility for development and administration of the Company's financial plans and all financial arrangements, its cash deposits and short-term investments, its accounting policies and its federal and state tax returns.  The Chief Financial Officer shall also be responsible for the Company's internal control procedures and for its relationship with the financial community. The Chief Financial Officer shall perform all the duties incident to the office of chief financial officer of a corporation, those duties assigned to him or her by other provisions of these Bylaws and such other duties as may be assigned to him or her either directly or indirectly by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board or the President, or as may be provided by law.
Chief Financial Officer.  
Section 6.6
Each Vice President shall perform the duties prescribed by the President or the Board of Directors.  The Board of Directors may appoint one or more of the Vice Presidents as Senior Vice Presidents and one or more as Executive Vice Presidents.
Vice President.  
Section 6.7
The Secretary shall attend all meetings of the Board of Directors and all meetings of the stockholders and record all votes and the minutes of all proceedings in a book to be kept for that purpose and shall perform like duties for the committees of the Board of Directors when required.  The Secretary shall give or cause to be given notice of all meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors, and shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or President, under whose supervision he or she shall serve.  The Secretary shall keep in safe custody the seal of the Company and shall affix the seal to any instrument requiring it and shall attest it.  
Secretary.  
Section 6.8
 The Assistant Secretary shall be vested with all the powers and authorized to perform all the duties of the Secretary at the request of or in the absence or disability of the Secretary. The performance of any act or the execution of any instrument by an Assistant Secretary in any instance in which such performance or execution would customarily have been accomplished by the Secretary shall constitute conclusive evidence of the request, absence or disability of the Secretary.  The Assistant Secretary shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed from time to time by the Board of Directors, the President or the Secretary.
Assistant Secretary.
Section 6.9
The Treasurer shall have the custody of the corporate funds and securities and shall keep full and accurate account of receipts and disbursements in moneys and other valuable effects in the name and to the credit of the Company in such depositories as may be designated by the Board of Directors.  The Treasurer shall disburse the funds of the Company as may be ordered by the Board of Directors, taking proper vouchers for such disbursements, and shall render to the President and directors at the regular meeting of the Board of Directors, or whenever they may require it, an account of all his transactions as Treasurer and of the financial condition of the Company.  
Treasurer.  
Section 6.10
The Assistant Treasurer shall be vested with all the powers and authorized to perform all the duties of the Treasurer at the request of or in the absence or disability of the Treasurer.  The performance of any act or the execution of any instrument by an Assistant Treasurer in any instance in which such performance or execution
Assistant Treasurer.  
15
would customarily have been accomplished by the Treasurer shall constitute conclusive evidence of the request, absence or disability of the Treasurer.  The Assistant Treasurer shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed from time to time by the Board of Directors, the President or the Treasurer.
Section 6.11
Any elected or appointed officer may resign at any time upon written notice, or notice by electronic transmission, to the Chairman of the Board, the President or the Secretary of the Company.  Such resignation shall take effect upon the date of its receipt or at such later time as may be specified therein, and unless otherwise required by the terms thereof, no acceptance of such resignation shall be necessary to make it effective.
Resignation.  
Section 6.12
Any officer elected or appointed by the Board of Directors may be removed, with or without cause, at any time by the Board.  Any such removal shall be without prejudice to the contractual rights of such officer, if any, with the Company, but the election or appointment of any officer shall not itself create contractual rights.  If the office of any officer or officers becomes vacant for any reason, the vacancy shall be filled by the Board.
Removal; Vacancies.  
Section 6.13
In case of the absence of any officer of the Company, or for any other reason that the Board of Directors may deem sufficient, the Board of Directors may delegate, for the time being, the power or duties, or any of them, of such officer to any other officer, or to any director, provided a majority of the entire Board concur therein.
Duties of Officers May Be Delegated.  
ARTICLE VII. STOCK CERTIFICATES AND TRANSFERS
Section 7.1
Every holder of stock in the Company shall be entitled to have a certificate; that the Board of Directors may provide by resolution or resolutions that some or all of any or all classes or series of its stock shall be uncertificated shares.  Any such resolution shall not apply to shares represented by a certificate until such certificate is surrendered to the Company.  Every holder of stock represented by a stock certificate shall be entitled to have a certificate signed by or in the name of the Company by the Chairman of the Board or the Vice Chairman of the Board or the President or any Vice President and the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary or the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer of the Company, certifying the number of shares owned by him.  Any and all of the signatures on the certificate may be a facsimile.  In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Company with the same effect as if he were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue.  The Board of Directors or the President shall determine the form of stock certificate of the Company.  The certificates of stock of the Company shall be numbered and shall be entered in the books of the Company as they are issued.  
Certificates of Stock; Uncertificated Shares.  
provided
Section 7.2
 Transfers of stock shall be made on the books (whether physically or electronically) of the Company only by the holder thereof, or by such holder's attorney, lawfully constituted in writing, and upon surrender of the certificate therefor (or, with respect to uncertificated shares, by delivery of duly executed instructions or any other
Transfers of Stock.
16
manner permitted by applicable law), and upon the payment of any transfer tax or transfer fees which may be imposed by law or by the Board of Directors; , , that such transfer is not prohibited by the Certificate of Incorporation, these Bylaws, applicable law or contract.
provided
however
Section 7.3
The Company shall be entitled to treat the holder of record of any share or shares of stock as the holder in fact and accordingly shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in such share on the part of any person, whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof, except as expressly provided by the laws of the State of Delaware.
Registered Stockholders.  
Section 7.4
 The Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board or the President, as appropriate, may appoint responsible banks or trust companies from time to time to act as transfer agents and registrars of the stock of the Company, as may be required by and in accordance with applicable laws, rules and regulations. Except as otherwise provided by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board or the President, as appropriate, in respect of temporary certificates, no certificates for shares of capital stock of the Company shall be valid unless countersigned by a transfer agent and registered by one of such registrars.
Transfer Agents and Registrars.  
Section 7.5
The Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board or the President, as appropriate, may make such additional rules and regulations as they may deem expedient concerning the issue, transfer and registration of certificates for shares of the capital stock of the Company.
Additional Regulations.  
Section 7.6
When authorized by the Secretary of the Company in writing, the duly appointed stock transfer agent may issue and the duly appointed registrar may register, new or duplicate stock certificates to replace lost, stolen or destroyed certificates and for the same number of shares as those lost, stolen or destroyed, upon delivery to the Company of an affidavit of loss and indemnity bond or other undertaking acceptable to both the Secretary and legal counsel representing the Company's interests.
Lost, Stolen or Destroyed Certificates.  
ARTICLE VIII. INDEMNIFICATION AND ADVANCEMENT OF EXPENSES
Section 8.1
The Company shall indemnify and hold harmless, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law as it presently exists or may hereafter be amended, any person (an "") who was or is made or is threatened to be made a party or is otherwise involved in any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (a ""), by reason of the fact that he, or a person for whom he is the legal representative, is or was a director or officer of the Company or, while a director or officer of the Company, is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation or of a partnership, joint venture, trust, enterprise or nonprofit entity, including service with respect to employee benefit plans, against all liability and loss suffered and expenses (including attorneys' fees) reasonably incurred by such Indemnitee.  Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, except as otherwise provided in Section 8.3, the Company shall be required to indemnify an Indemnitee in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) commenced by such Indemnitee only if the commencement of such
Right to Indemnification.  
Indemnitee
proceeding
17
proceeding (or part thereof) by the Indemnitee was authorized by the Board of Directors of the Company. The Company may, in its discretion and on terms as the Company may determine, indemnify any person who was or is made or is threatened to be made a party or is otherwise involved in any proceeding by reason of the fact that he is or was an employee or agent of the Company or, while an employee or agent of the Company, is or was serving at the request of the Company as an employee or agent of another corporation or of a partnership, joint venture, trust, enterprise or nonprofit entity, including service with respect to employee benefit plans, against all liability and loss suffered and expenses (including attorneys' fees) reasonably incurred by such employee or agent.
 
Section 8.2
 The Company shall to the fullest extent not prohibited by applicable law pay the expenses (including attorneys' fees) incurred by an Indemnitee in defending any proceeding in advance of its final disposition, , , that, to the extent required by law, such payment of expenses in advance of the final disposition of the proceeding shall be made only upon receipt of an undertaking by the Indemnitee to repay all amounts advanced if it should be ultimately determined that the Indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified under this or otherwise.  The Company may, in its discretion, pay the expenses (including attorneys' fees) incurred by an employee or agent of the Company, such expenses may be so paid upon such terms and conditions, if any, as the Company deems appropriate.
Prepayment of Expenses.
provided
however
Article VIII
Section 8.3
 If a claim for indemnification or payment of expenses under this is not paid in full within sixty days, with respect to indemnification, or twenty days, with respect to payment of expenses, after a written claim therefor by the Indemnitee has been received by the Company, the Indemnitee may file suit to recover the unpaid amount of such claim and, if successful in whole or in part, shall be entitled to be paid the expense of prosecuting such claim to the fullest extent permitted by law.  In any such action the Company shall have the burden of proving that the Indemnitee is not entitled to the requested indemnification or payment of expenses under applicable law.
Claims.
Article VIII
Section 8.4
 The rights conferred on any Indemnitee by this shall not be exclusive of any other rights which such Indemnitee may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, provision of the Certificate of Incorporation, these Bylaws, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise.
Nonexclusivity of Rights.
Article VIII
Section 8.5
 The Company's obligation, if any, to indemnify or to advance expenses to any Indemnitee who was or is serving at its request as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, enterprise or nonprofit entity shall be reduced by any amount such Indemnitee may collect as indemnification or advancement of expenses from such other corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, enterprise or nonprofit enterprise.
Other Sources.
Section 8.6
 Any right to indemnification or to advancement of expenses of any Indemnitee arising hereunder shall not be eliminated or impaired by an amendment to or repeal of this after the occurrence of the act or omission that is the subject of any proceeding for which indemnification or advancement of expenses is sought.
Amendment or Repeal.
Article VIII
18
Section 8.7
 This shall not limit the right of the Company, to the extent and in the manner permitted by law, to indemnify and to advance expenses to persons other than Indemnitees when and as authorized by appropriate corporate action.
Other Indemnification and Prepayment of Expenses.
Article VIII
Section 8.8
The Company may purchase and maintain liability insurance on behalf of a person who is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Company, or who, while serving as a director, officer, employee or agent of the Company, is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation or of a partnership, joint venture, trust, enterprise or nonprofit entity, including service with respect to employee benefit plans, against any liability asserted against him and incurred by him in that capacity or arising from his status as a director, officer, employee or agent, whether or not the Company has the power to indemnify him against the same liability under applicable law.
Insurance.  
ARTICLE IX. MISCELLANEOUS
Section 9.1
(A)  In order that the Company may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors, and which record date shall, unless otherwise required by law, not be more than sixty (60) nor less than ten (10) days before the date of such meeting.  If the Board of Directors so fixes a date, such date shall also be the record date for determining the stockholders entitled to vote at such meeting unless the Board of Directors determines, at the time it fixes such record date, that a later date on or before the date of the meeting shall be the date for making such determination.  If no record date is fixed by the Board of Directors , the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice is given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held.  A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; , , that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for determination of stockholders entitled to vote at the adjourned meeting, and in such case shall also fix as the record date for stockholders entitled to notice of such adjourned meeting the same or an earlier date as that fixed for determination of stockholders entitled to vote in accordance herewith at the adjourned meeting.
Fixing Record Date.  
provided
however
(B)
In order that the Company may determine the stockholders entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which shall not be more than sixty (60) days prior to such other action.  If no such record date is fixed, the record date for determining stockholders for any such purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution relating thereto.
(C)
Unless otherwise restricted by the Certificate of Incorporation, in order that the Company may determine the stockholders entitled to express consent to corporate action
19
in writing without a meeting, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors, and which record date shall not be more than ten (10) days after the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors.  If no record date for determining stockholders entitled to express consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting is fixed by the Board of Directors, (i) when no prior action of the Board of Directors is required by law, the record date for such purpose shall be the first date on which a signed written consent setting forth the action taken or proposed to be taken is delivered to the Company in accordance with applicable law, and (ii) if prior action by the Board of Directors is required by law, the record date for such pu rpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution taking such prior action.
Section 9.2
Unless otherwise restricted by applicable law, the Certificate of Incorporation, or these Bylaws, members of the Board of Directors, any committee thereof, or the stockholders may hold a meeting by means of conference telephone or other method of remote communications by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can effectively communicate with each other.  Such participation in a meeting shall constitute presence in person at the meeting, except where a person participates in the meeting for the express purpose of objecting to the transaction of any business on the ground that the meeting is not lawfully called or convened.
Attendance Via Communications Equipment.  
Section 9.3
The fiscal year shall begin the first day of January in each year.
Fiscal Year.  
Section 9.4
 The corporate seal shall be inscribed with the name of the Company, the year of its organization, and the words "Corporate Seal, Delaware."  The seal may be used by causing it, or a facsimile thereof, to be impressed, affixed or reproduced.  
Seal.
Section 9.5
 Whenever, under the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation, these Bylaws or the laws of the State of Delaware, notice is required to be given to any director, officer or stockholder, it shall not be construed to mean personal notice, but such notice may be given in writing, by mail or private carrier, by electronic transmission, or by any other means recognized under applicable state or federal law.  If given by mail, the notice shall be mailed on a prepaid basis and shall be addressed to such director, officer or stockholder, at such address as appears on the books of the Company.  Any stockholder, director or officer may waive any notice required to be given under the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws.
Notice.
Section 9.6
The Company shall maintain permanent records of the minutes of all meetings of its stockholders and Board of Directors, all actions taken by the Board of Directors without a meeting and all actions taken by each committee of the Board of Directors in place of the Board of Directors on behalf of the Company.  The Company shall also maintain appropriate accounting records.  
Books and Records; Inspection of Books.  
Section 9.7
All checks, demands for money, or other transactions involving the Company's bank accounts shall be signed by such officers or other responsible persons as the Board of Directors may designate.  No third party is allowed access to the Company's bank accounts without express written authorization by the Board of Directors.
Bank Accounts.  
20
Section 9.8
 Except as otherwise provided by applicable law or these Bylaws, any contract or other instrument relative to the business of the Company may be executed and delivered in the name of the Company and on its behalf by the Chairman of the Board or the President.  The Board of Directors may authorize any other officer of the Company to enter into any contract or execute and deliver any contract in the name and on behalf of the Company, and such authority may be general or confined to specific instances as the Board of Directors may by resolution determine.  All bills, notes, checks, or other instruments for the payment of money shall be signed or countersigned by such officer or officers and in such manner as are permitted by these Bylaws and/or as, from time to time, may be prescribed by resolution (whether general or special) of the Boa rd of Directors.
Contracts and Negotiable Instruments.
Section 9.9
Unless otherwise provided by resolution adopted by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the President or any Vice President may, from time to time, appoint an attorney or attorneys or agent or agents of the Company, in the name and on behalf of the Company, to cast votes which the Company may be entitled to cast as the holder of stock or other securities in any other corporation or other entity, any of whose stock or other securities may be held by the Company, at meetings of the holders of the stock or other securities of such other corporation or other entity, or to consent in writing, in the name of the Company as such holder, to any action by such other corporation or entity, and may instruct the person or persons so appointed as to the manner of casting such votes or giving such consent, and may execute or cause to be executed in the name and on behalf of the Company and under its corporate seal or otherwise, all such written proxies or other instruments as he may deem necessary or proper in the premises.
Proxies in Respect of Securities of Other Corporations.  
Section 9.10
These Bylaws may be adopted, amended or repealed (A) by the Board of Directors or (B) by the affirmative vote of a majority of the outstanding voting power entitled to vote generally in the election of directors; , , that in the case of clause (B), notice of the proposed amendment is contained in the notice of the meeting.  In addition to any vote required by any other provision of these Bylaws, the Certificate of Incorporation or any applicable law, if such amendment is to be adopted by the stockholders, the affirmative vote of holders of eighty percent of the outstanding voting power entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class, shall be required for any amendment that amends or repeals, or adopts any provisions inconsistent with Section 2.7(F), , or this Section 9.10.
Amendments.  
provided
however
Article III
Article VI II
Section 9.11
All references and uses herein of the masculine pronouns "he", "his" or "chairman" shall have equal applicability to and shall also mean their feminine counterpart pronouns, such as "she", "her" or "chairwoman."
Construction.  
21


