FILE:QEP/QEP-8K-20110519124803.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
Effective on May 18, 2011, the date of the Company's Annual Meeting, James A. Harmon retired from his role as a director in compliance with the Company's policy that requires a director to retire at the age of 75. His term also ended at this meeting.
Mr. David A. Trice was elected to the Board by a vote of the shareholders as indicated below.
Item 5.07 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
The Company held its Annual Meeting on May 18, 2011. At the meeting shareholders voted on the election of three directors to serve on the board and on several proposals:
Voting results on the election of two directors to hold office until the annual meeting in 2014 were as follows:
 
Voting results on a proposal to ratify the selection of Ernst & Young as the Company's independent auditor were as follows:
 
Results of an advisory vote to ratify the Company's executive compensation:
 
Results of an advisory vote regarding the frequency of future executive compensation votes were as follows:
 
Results of a vote to allow the transaction of such business as may properly come before the meeting:
 
Because shareholders endorsed an annual say-on-pay vote, an advisory vote on executive compensation will be included in the 2012 proxy.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 


