FILE:QEP/QEP-8K-20120214162955.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
On February 14, 2012, QEP Resources, Inc. (the Company) and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as Rights Agent (the Rights Agent), entered into the First Amendment to Rights Agreement (the Amendment), which amends the Rights Agreement, dated as of June 30, 2010, by and between the Company and the Rights Agent.  The Amendment accelerates the final expiration date of the Companys preferred stock purchase rights (the Rights) from the close of business on June 30, 2013 to the close of business on April 1, 2012.  As a result of the Amendment, as of the close of business on April 1, 2012, the Rights will no longer be outstanding and will not be exercisable, and the Rights Agreement will effectively terminate and be of no further force and effect.
The foregoing summary of certain terms of the Amendment does not purport to be complete and is subject to and qualified in its entirety by reference to the Amendment, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 4.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
A copy of the Companys press release announcing the execution of the Amendment is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
 
The information set forth under Item 1.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is hereby incorporated by reference in Item 3.03.
 
                      
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 4.1
 
 
This First Amendment to Rights Agreement, dated as of February 14, 2012 (this ), is entered into by and between QEP Resources, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ), and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as Rights Agent (the ).  This Amendment is an amendment to the Rights Agreement, dated as of June 30, 2010 (the ), by and between the Company and the Rights Agent.
Amendment
Company
Rights Agent
Rights Agreement
 
WHEREAS, the Company and the Rights Agent entered into the Rights Agreement, which specifies the terms and conditions of the Rights;
 
WHEREAS, the Company desires to amend the Rights Agreement in accordance with Section 26 of the Rights Agreement; and
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to resolutions duly adopted on the date hereof, the Board of Directors of the Company has determined it is advisable and in the best interests of the Company to amend the Rights Agreement as set forth below;
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and mutual agreements set forth herein and in the Rights Agreement, the parties hereby agree as follows:
 
Section 1.     .  Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein shall have the respective meanings assigned to such terms in the Rights Agreement.
Definitions
 
Section 2.     .  Section 7.1 of the Rights Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
Amendment to Rights Agreement
 
7.1.  .    Subject to and except as otherwise provided herein, the registered holder of any Right Certificate may exercise the Rights evidenced thereby in whole or in part at any time after the Distribution Date upon surrender of the Right Certificate, with the form of election to purchase and certification on the reverse side thereof duly executed, to the Rights Agent at the office of the Rights Agent designated for such purpose, together with payment of the aggregate Purchase Price for the total number of one one-thousandths of a share of Preferred Stock (or other securities, cash or other assets) as to which the Rights are exercised, at or prior to the time (the ) that is the earliest of (i) the close of business on April 1, 2012 (the ), (ii) the time at which the Rights are redeemed as provided in (the ), (iii) the closing of any merger or other acquisition transaction involving the Company pursuant to an agreement of the type described in at which time the Rights are deemed terminated, or (iv) the time at which the Rights are exchanged as provided in .
Exercise of Rights
Section 11.1.2
Expiration Date
Final Expiration Date
Section 23
Redemption Date
Section 13.3
Section 27
 
The Exhibits to the Rights Agreement are hereby restated to reflect this Amendment, including all necessary conforming changes.
 
Section 3.     .
Miscellaneous
 
(a)     The term Agreement as used in the Rights Agreement shall be deemed to refer to the Rights Agreement as amended hereby.
 
 
 
 
 
(b)     This Amendment shall be effective as of the date first above written, and, except as set forth herein, the Rights Agreement shall remain in full force and effect and shall be otherwise unaffected hereby.
 
(c)     This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts and each of such counterparts shall for all purposes be deemed to be an original, and all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
 
(d)     This Amendment shall be deemed to be a contract made under the internal laws of the State of Delaware and for all purposes shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of such State applicable to contracts to be made and performed entirely within such State.
 
 
 
2
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be duly executed as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
News Release
 
QEP RESOURCES ANNOUNCES TERMINATION OF SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS PLAN
 
DENVER, Feb. 14, 2012 /PRNewswire/ -- QEP Resources, Inc. (NYSE: QEP) announced today that its Board of Directors has approved an amendment to the Rights Agreement for its Shareholder Rights Plan to accelerate the final expiration date of the Rights to April 1, 2012.  The Rights had been slated to expire on June 30, 2013.  As a result of the amendment, as of the close of business on April 1, 2012, the Rights will no longer be outstanding and will not be exercisable, and the Rights Agreement will effectively terminate.  Shareholders do not need to take any action as a result of this termination.
 
Our board took this action in response to shareholder concerns about the Rights Plan, said Chuck Stanley, President and CEO.  Last year the board agreed that it would either put the Rights Plan to a vote at the 2012 Annual Meeting, or eliminate the Plan.  After careful consideration, the board determined that terminating the Plan was appropriate at this time.
 
About QEP Resources, Inc.
 
QEP Resources is a leading independent natural gas and oil exploration and production company with operations focused in the Rocky Mountain and Midcontinent regions of the United States. QEP Resources also gathers, compresses, treats, processes and stores natural gas.
 
For more information, visit the QEP Resources website at: www.qepres.com.
 
SOURCE QEP Resources, Inc.
 
 


