FILE:QEP/QEP-8K-20120223130327.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2 - Financial Information
 On February 22, 2012 QEP Resources, Inc. (the Registrant) issued a press release to report the results of operations for the period ended December 31, 2011 and to provide an update of 2011 year to date operations and guidance. A copy of the Registrants release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, and the information contained therein is incorporated herein by reference.
The Registrants press release announcing its financial results for the fiscal quarter and year ended December 31, 2011, includes non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a companys performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Registrant has provided quantitative reconciliations within the press release of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
 
The information contained in Item 2.02 to this Form 8-K, including the exhibit, shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the information shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
Section 9 - Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
.                                
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
List of Exhibits:
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
DENVER  QEP Resources (NYSE: QEP) reported adjusted EBITDA (a non-GAAP measure) of $1,386.6 million for 2011 compared to $1,140.5 million in 2010, a 22% increase.  Factors driving QEPs results included 20% higher net production and 54% higher oil and NGL production from QEP Energy, increased gathering and processing margins at QEP Field Services, and higher net realized crude oil and NGL prices which more than offset net realized natural gas prices that were 11% lower than in the previous year at QEP Energy.  Adjusted EBITDA in the fourth quarter of 2011 was $390.5 million compared to $298.5 million a year earlier, a 31% increase.
 
 
QEP Resources net income from continuing operations for 2011 was $267.2 million or $1.50 per diluted share, compared to $283.0 million or $1.60 per diluted share in 2010.  QEP Resources had a net loss from continuing operations in the fourth quarter of 2011 of $0.3 million or no earnings per diluted share, compared to net income of $65.0 million or $0.37 per diluted share a year earlier.  The net loss in the fourth quarter of 2011 was attributed to a non-cash price-related impairment charge of $195.2 million on some of its mature, dry gas, and higher cost properties in both the Northern and Southern Regions.  See Financial and Operating Results for additional information.
 
Excluding changes in unrealized gains and losses on natural gas basis-only swaps, gains and losses on asset sales, non-cash price-related impairment charge, separation costs and losses on early extinguishment of debt, QEP Resources adjusted net income from continuing operations (a non-GAAP measure) was $316.2 million or $1.77 per diluted share in 2011 compared to $217.8 million or $1.23 per diluted share in 2010.  Similarly adjusted fourth quarter 2011 net income from continuing operations was $104.6 million or $0.58 per diluted share compared to net income of $44.8 million or $0.25 per diluted share in the year earlier period.
 
 
 
 
NET INCOME BY SUBSIDIARY
 
 
 
 
QEP Resources completed another successful year in 2011, said Chuck Stanley, President and CEO.  QEP Energy production was up 20% from last year, driven by strong results from the Pinedale Anticline and Haynesville Shale plays, combined with significant contributions from new wells in our Woodford Cana Shale and Bakken/Three Forks plays.  With 68% of our 2011 drilling capital directed to oil and liquids-rich gas plays, we grew oil and NGL production 54% and year-end proved crude oil and NGL reserves 107% compared to 2010.  Crude oil and NGL production accounted for 29% of QEP Energy net realized production revenues for the year and we expect that share to grow as we allocate more of our 2012 QEP Energy capital to our higher-margin oil and liquids-rich gas resource plays.  Our midstream business, QEP Field Services, had an excellent year, thanks to a combination of great execution coupled with strong gas processing margins.  Our new Blacks Fork II plant continues to perform well, and the midstream team is now focused on new projects to drive additional growth in 2012 and beyond, Stanley added.
 
Financial and Operating Result
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
QEP 2012 Adjusted EBITDA, Capital Expenditure and Production Guidance
Dueto a dramatic decrease in 2012 natural gas prices, QEP now expects 2012 Adjusted EBITDA to range from $1,350 to $1,450 million, compared to a previously forecasted range of $1,450 to $1,550 million.  QEP Energy expects 2012 production should range from 305 to 310 Bcfe, unchanged from the previously forecasted range.
 
 
The companys guidance assumes commodity derivative positions in place on the date of this release and other assumptions summarized in the table below:
 
 
Approximately 65% of QEP Energys forecasted natural gas production, 56% of forecasted oil production and 18% of forecasted NGL production for 2012 is subject to commodity derivatives.  On a natural gas equivalent basis, the company has approximately 60% of its forecasted production for 2012 subject to commodity derivatives.  A table with details of the companys positions is included at the end of this release.
 
In response to current commodity prices, the company is decreasing its capital allocated to the Haynesville Shale and other dry gas development areas and plans to allocate 88% of its 2012 capital to higher return projects including Pinedale, the Uinta Basin Red Wash Mesaverde play, the Bakken, and oil-directed horizontal drilling in the Powder River Basin and Midcontinent.  In response to growing QEP Energy and third-party demand, QEP Field Services will begin construction on Iron Horse II, a new 150 MMcfd fee-based cryogenic gas processing plant in the Uinta Basin.
 
QEP Energy Results
QEP Energys 2011 production increased 20% to 275.2 Bcfe compared to 229.0 Bcfe in the 2010 period.  The Southern Region (formerly the Midcontinent region) contributed 56% of total production compared to 53% in 2010.
 
 
 
 
 
 
QEP Energy - Commodity Prices
(1)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Year end 2011 proved reserves increase
QEP Energys estimated proved reserves totaled 3.6 Tcfe at December 31, 2011, up 19% from year-end 2010.  Excluding price-related revisions, QEP Energy replaced 313% of 2011 production.  Including price-related revisions, the reserve replacement ratio was 312% (a positive 2.1 Bcfe of price related revisions).  Total combined proved crude oil and NGL reserves increased 107% from year-end 2010, driven by strong results from QEPs development program in the Bakken/Three Forks play and reserves added as a result of the completion of the Blacks Fork II plant.  Approximately 24% of total proved reserves at year-end 2011 were crude oil and NGL compared to 14% at year-end 2010.  Total proved developed reserves comprised 2.0 Tcfe, or 54% of the total.  A reconciliation of reported quantities of proved reserves is summarized in the table below:
 
 
 
 
 
Details on year-end 2011 proved reserves by division or operating area, proved reserve category and percentage of total proved reserves comprised of crude oil and NGL (liquids) are as follows:
 
For comparison, the year-end 2010 proved reserves by division or operating area, proved reserve category and percentage of total proved reserves comprised of crude oil and NGL (liquids) were as follows:
 
 
The trailing twelve-month weighted-average prices used to estimate QEPs year-end 2011 proved reserves were $3.46/Mcf for natural gas, $82.96/bbl for crude oil, and $41.55/bbl for NGL.  Average natural gas prices were 10% lower, average oil prices were 26% higher, and average NGL prices were 6% higher than the applicable prices used to estimate year-end 2010 proved reserves.  QEPs estimated proved reserves at December 31, 2011, were prepared by Ryder Scott Company L.P., independent petroleum engineers, in accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission regulations.
QEP Energy Operations Update
QEP adds 105 Pinedale well completions in 2011
At the Pinedale Anticline field in western Wyoming, QEP completed and turned to sales 105 new wells during 2011, including 16 new wells since the third quarter 2011 release.  Drilling and completion efficiencies have allowed QEP to maintain industry-leading average gross completed well costs of $3.9 million per well in 2011.  The average drill time from spud to total depth was 13.8 days in 2011, down from an average of 17 days in 2010.  During the fourth quarter of 2011, QEPs Pinedale net production averaged approximately 258 MMcfed.  As a result of the fee-based processing agreement entered into between QEP Energy and QEP Field Services effective August 1, 2011, QEP Energy average net equivalent production for the fourth quarter included a significant contribution from liquids (208 MMcf/day, 1,792 Bbl Oil/day and 6,637 Bbl NGL/day).  The company suspends completion operations at Pinedale during the coldest months of the winter (generally from December through mid-March).  QEP currently has 37 wells drilled and cased and waiting on completion.  The company plans to operate 6 rigs at Pinedale for most of 2012.
 
Slides with maps and other supporting materials referred to in this release are posted on the Companys website www.qepres.com.  Please refer to slides 5 and 6 for additional details on Pinedale.
 
Bakken/Three Forks oil production growth continues on QEPs 90,000 acre North Dakota leasehold
In the Williston Basin of North Dakota, QEP has completed and turned to sales 7 new Bakken and 4 new Three Forks Formation company-operated wells since the third quarter release.  QEPs working interest in these wells ranges from 63% to 100%.  The company operates 30 producing wells in the play (24 Bakken and 6 Three Forks) and has a working interest in 93 producing wells that are operated by others.  During the fourth quarter of 2011, QEPs Bakken/Three Forks net production averaged approximately 5,019 Boepd.
 
 
 
 
QEP has 2 operated wells currently drilling and 2 operated wells waiting on completion.  The company also has interests in 7 outside-operated wells currently being drilled and 13 outside-operated wells that are waiting on completion.  Working interests in outside operated wells range from less than 1% to 13%.
 
The company has 2 rigs currently working in the play.  A third rig will begin drilling on a 10-well pad within the next month.  QEP currently estimates that the average completed well cost for a typical Bakken/Three Forks well (10,000 average lateral length) will range from $9.4 to $9.7 million in 2012.  Slide 7 shows QEPs acreage and activity in the Bakken/Three Forks play.
Strong industry activity continues in the Woodford Cana Shale play
The company has completed and turned to sales 4 new QEP-operated Woodford Cana Shale wells in western Oklahoma since the last update.  The company currently operates 25 producing wells and has working interests in an additional 197 producing Cana wells that are operated by others.  During the fourth quarter of 2011, QEP net production from the play averaged approximately 49 MMcfed.
 
QEP has 2 operated wells currently drilling  and 1 operated well waiting on completion and has interests in 6 wells currently being drilled and 12 wells waiting on completion that are operated by others.  QEP plans to operate 2 to 3 rigs for the balance of 2012 in the liquids-rich gas portion of the core of the Cana play, with the majority of the activity focused on development drilling on 80-acre density.  Slide 8 depicts QEPs acreage and additional details on the Cana play.
QEP commences development drilling in liquids-rich gas Mesaverde play in Uinta Basin
In the Uinta Basin of eastern Utah, QEP has commenced a two-rig vertical development drilling program targeting liquids-rich gas stacked sands in the Mesaverde Formation at average drill depths of 11,000 feet.  The company has a 100% working interest in over 32,000 acres within the Red Wash Federal Unit, which it believes could be prospective for development of this emerging play.
 
At the end of 2011, the company had 20 producing wells in the play.  QEP plans to drill at least 40 additional wells in the play in 2012.  The company estimates gross completed well costs should average about $2.1 million with average gross per well estimated ultimate recoveries of 2.1 Bcfe.  Slide 9 depicts QEPs acreage and additional details on the Mesaverde play.
Granite Wash, Tonkawa and Marmaton horizontal development in the Texas Panhandle and Western Oklahoma
In the Texas Panhandle Granite Wash play, the company has completed and turned to sales one additional QEP operated Cherokee horizontal well and one additional Caldwell zone horizontal well in Wheeler County, Texas since the last operations update.  QEP has a 59% working interest in both newly completed wells.  QEP has a working interest in a total of 61 producing horizontal Granite Wash/Atoka Wash wells in the Texas Panhandle.  During the fourth quarter of 2011, net production from this play (vertical and horizontal wells) averaged approximately 52 MMcfed.  The company participated with a working interest in 5 outside-operated Granite Wash wells in the Texas Panhandle that were completed since the last operations update with working interests ranging from less than 1% to 23%.  QEP is also participating in 6 outside-operated wells that are waiting on completion with working interests ranging from 2% to 19% and 4 outside-operated wells currently drilling with working interests ranging from 27% to 33%.
 
Excluding 7 wells completed in the Atoka formation which produces primarily gas, QEP participated in a total of 25 completed horizontal wells (both operated and non-operated) during 2011 in Wheeler County, Texas.  The initial 30-day average rate for these 25 wells was approximately 1,460 Boepd.
 
In addition, since the last update QEP has drilled and completed 3 new Marmaton, 1 Tonkawa, and 1 Skinner horizontal oil wells in western Oklahoma and participated with a working interest in 8 outside operated wells in these plays with working interests ranging from 1% to 38%.
 
QEP participated in a total of 7 completed Marmaton horizontal wells (both operated and non-operated) during 2011 in western Oklahoma.  The initial 30-day average rate for these wells was approximately 360 Boepd.  QEP participated in a total of 27 completed Tonkawa horizontal wells (both operated and non-operated) during 2011 in western Oklahoma.  The initial 30-day average rate for these wells was approximately 350 Boepd.
 
 
 
 
 
 
QEP currently has 2 rigs running in the combined Granite Wash/Marmaton/Tonkawa plays.  See slide 10 for details on the Granite Wash play.
 
Reducing rig count in the Haynesville Shale of NW Louisiana
QEP has completed 11 additional company-operated Haynesville wells, since the last update, each with strong production rates and pressures.  QEP drill times in the play averaged 32 days from spud to total depth in 2011, down from 37 days in 2010.  QEP believes that improved drilling performance and completion efficiencies have allowed QEP to remain the lowest cost operator in its portion of the Haynesville play.  QEP-operated gross completed well costs averaged $9.1 million in 2011 compared to $9.3 million in 2010.  The company operates 108 producing wells in the play and has a working interest in 121 producing wells that are operated by others.  During the fourth quarter of 2011, the companys Haynesville net production averaged approximately 239 MMcfd and Cotton Valley/Hosston net production averaged approximately 50 MMcfd.  QEP net production from the Haynesville play continues to be impacted by the Companys decision to restrict the flowing rate of Haynesville wells to decrease near-wellbore pressure drawdown.  The Company continues to restrict flow rates to minimize reservoir and propped fracture damage, which should lead to increased ultimate recoverable reserves.
 
QEP has 18 wells waiting on completion or being completed and currently has one operated rig working in the Haynesville play, down from a peak of 6 rigs in 2011.  The Company also participated in 6 outside-operated Haynesville wells that were completed and turned to sales since the last operations update with working interests ranging from less than 1% to 12%.  QEP has interests in 4 outside-operated Haynesville wells that are waiting on completion.  Refer to slide 11 for additional information on QEPs Haynesville activities.
QEP Field Services Results
QEP Field Services (Field Services) Adjusted EBITDA increased 57% to $320.3 million compared to $203.9 million in 2010.  During the fourth quarter of 2011, Adjusted EBITDA increased 66% to $87.2 million from the 2010 fourth quarter.  Adjusted EBITDA increased for the year and quarter ended December 31, 2011, due to higher gathering and processing margins.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fourth Quarter 2011 Results Conference Call
QEP Resources management will discuss full year and fourth quarter 2011 results in a conference call on Thursday, February 23, beginning at 11:00 a.m. ET.  The call can be accessed at .  A replay of the teleconference will be available on the website and from February 23  to March 8 by dialing (855) 859-2056 in the U.S. or Canada and (404) 537-3406 for international calls, and then entering passcode 44233321.  In addition, QEPs Fourth Quarter Operations Update Slides, with updated maps showing QEPs leasehold and current activity for key operating areas discussed in this release, can be found on the companys website.
www.qepres.com
rd
th
 
About QEP Resources
QEP Resources, Inc. (NYSE:QEP) is a leading independent natural gas and oil exploration and production company with operations focused in the Rocky Mountain and Midcontinent of the United States. QEP Resources also gathers, compresses, treats, processes and stores natural gas.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
This release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27(a) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  Forward-looking statements can be identified by words such as anticipates, believes, forecasts, plans, estimates, expects, should, will, or other similar expressions.  Such statements are based on managements current expectations, estimates and projections, which are subject to a wide range of uncertainties and business risks.  These forward-looking statements include statements regarding:  forecasted Adjusted EBITDA, production and capital investment for 2012 and related assumptions for such guidance; number of rigs planned in operating areas; changes in lease operating expenses; the effects of restricting the flowing rate in the Haynesville Shale; estimated gross completed well costs and average estimated ultimate recoveries per well; QEP being the lowest cost operator in its portion of the Haynesville play; and anticipated growth from new projects of QEP Field Services.  The Securities and Exchange Commission requires oil and gas companies, in their filings with the SEC, to disclose proved reserves that a company has demonstrated by actual production or through reliable technology to be economically and legally producible at specific prices and existing economic and operating conditions.  The SEC permits optional disclosure of probable and possible reserves, however QEP has made no such disclosures in our filings with the SEC.  QEP uses certain terms in our periodic news releases and other presentation materials such as estimated ultimate recovery (or EUR), resource potential, and net resource potential.  These estimates are by their nature more speculative than estimates of proved, probable or possible reserves and accordingly are subject to substantially more risks of actually being realized.  The SEC guidelines strictly prohibit us from including such estimates in filings with the SEC.  Investors are urged to closely consider the disclosures and risk factors in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and in other reports on file with the SEC.  Actual results may differ materially from those included in the forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to:  the availability of capital; changes in local, regional, national and global demand for natural gas, oil and NGL; natural gas, NGL and oil prices; potential legislative or regulatory changes regarding the use of hydraulic fracture stimulation; impact of new laws and regulations, including the implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act; drilling results; shortages of oilfield equipment, services and personnel; operating risks such as unexpected drilling conditions; weather conditions; changes in maintenance and construction costs and possible inflationary pressures; the availability and cost of credit; and the other risks discussed in the Companys periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Risk Factors section of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011.
 
 
 
 
 
QEP Resources undertakes no obligation to publicly correct or update the forward-looking statements in this news release, in other documents, or on the Web site to reflect future events or circumstances.  All such statements are expressly qualified by this cautionary statement.
For more information, visit QEP Resources website at: .
www.qepres.com
 
 
 
 
The following table presents full year derivative positions as of February 16, 2012:
 
 
 
 
 
 
QEP RESOURCES, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
(Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
 
 
QEP RESOURCES, INC.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
QEP RESOURCES, INC.
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOWS
(Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
 
 
QEP RESOURCES, INC.
OPERATIONS BY LINE OF BUSINESS
(Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
QEP RESOURCES, INC.
NON-GAAP MEASURES
(Unaudited)
 
This release contains reference to a non-GAAP measure of earnings per diluted share from continuing operations excluding gains and losses from asset sales, asset impairments, unrealized gains and losses on basis-only swaps, separation costs and loss on early extinguishment of debt. Management believes earnings per diluted share excluding asset sales, asset impairments, unrealized basis-only swaps, separation costs and loss on early extinguishment of debt is an important measure of the Company's operational performance relative to other gas and oil producing companies.
 
The following table calculates earnings per diluted share excluding gains and losses on assets sales, unrealized  gains and losses on basis-only swaps, separation costs and loss on early extinguishment of debt:
 
 
 
 
 
This release also contains reference to a non-GAAP measure of Adjusted EBITDA.  Management defines Adjusted EBITDA as net income before the following items: discontinued operations, unrealized gains and losses on basis-only swaps, gains and losses from asset sales, interest and other income, income taxes, interest expense, separation costs, loss on early extinguishment of debt, depreciation, depletion, and amortization, abandonment and impairment, and exploration expense.  Management uses Adjusted EBITDA to assess the Company's operating results.  Management believes Adjusted EBITDA is an important measure of the Company's cash flow and liquidity, its ability to incur and service debt, fund capital expenditures and make distributions to shareholders and is an important measure for comparing the Company's financial performance to other gas and oil producing companies.  In addition, Adjusted EBITDA is a part of the Company's debt covenants as defined in its revolving credit agreement.
 
The following table reconciles QEP Resources' net income to Adjusted EBITDA:
 
 


