FILE:QEP/QEP-8K-20120824082932.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Purchase Agreements
 
On August 23, 2012, QEP Resources, Inc. (the ), through its wholly-owned subsidiary, QEP Energy Company,  entered into two related asset purchase agreements (the ) with (i) Helis Oil & Gas Company, L.L.C.  () and (ii) certain other sellers (the  and, together with Helis, the ).  The Purchase Agreements provide for the acquisition (the ) by the Registrant of certain of the Sellers oil and natural gas interests in North Dakotas Williams and McKenzie counties. These interests are located in the active play area for the Bakken and Three Forks Formations within the Williston Basin (the ). The aggregate consideration payable to all Sellers for the Acquisition will be approximately $1.38 billion (the ), subject to customary purchase price adjustments. Approximately 46% of the total Purchase Price is attributable to the properties being acquired from Helis. Other than minor changes to adjust for the fact that Helis serves as the operator of the majority of the Acquired Properties, the two Purchase Agreements are substantially similar in all material respects.
Registrant
Purchase Agreements
Helis
Non-Operated Sellers
Sellers
Acquisition
Acquired Properties
Purchase Price
 
The Acquisition has an effective date of July 1, 2012. The Registrant intends to finance the Acquisition using a combination of borrowings under its credit facility and cash on hand.  In connection with the execution of the Purchase Agreements, the Registrant paid a deposit equal to 10% of the Purchase Price to the Sellers.  The Registrant expects to close the Acquisition on or before September 27, 2012, subject to due diligence and the satisfaction of customary closing conditions.
 
Before the closing of the Acquisition, the Registrant intends to conduct customary due diligence of the Acquired Properties to assess the aggregate dollar value of any title and environmental defects, casualty losses, and preferential right exercises.  If the value of such matters exceeds 20% of the Purchase Price, then each party retains the right to decline to close.
 
Each partys separate obligation to consummate the respective portions of the Acquisition is conditioned upon, among other things, (i) confirmation of the counterparties representations and warranties as of the closing, (ii) the counterparties performance, in all material respects, of all covenants, (iii) the receipt of all required approvals, (iv) the absence of legal matters prohibiting the Acquisition and (v) the purchase price condition described above.  In addition, the Registrants obligation to close with respect to the Non-Operated Sellers is conditioned upon the closing with Helis; further, the Registrant is not obligated to close with certain of the smaller Non-Operated Sellers unless it also closes with certain of the more significant Non-Operated Sellers.
 
 
On August 23, 2012, the Registrant issued a press release announcing the Acquisition.  A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information in Item 7.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the attached Exhibit 99.1, is being furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, and is not incorporated by reference into any filing, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
This Current Report on Form 8-K includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27(a) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  Forward-looking statements can be identified by words such as anticipates, believes, forecasts, plans, estimates, expects, should, will or other similar expressions.  Such statements are based on management's current expectations, estimates and projections, which are subject to a wide range of uncertainties and business risks. These forward-looking statements include statements regarding the financing of the Acquisition, the anticipated closing date of the Acquisition and expected due diligence of the Acquired Properties.  Actual results may differ materially from those included in the forward-looking statements due to a number of factors including, without limitation, availability of capital; regulatory and other approvals; general economic conditions, including the performance of financial markets and interest rates, global geopolitical and macroeconomic factors; prices for natural gas, oil and NGLs; and factors identified in the section of the Registrants Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011. The Registrant undertakes no obligation to publicly correct or update the forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.
Risk Factors
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Partnership has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
News Release
 
DENVER, August 23, 2012// QEP Resources Inc. (NYSE:QEP)
QEP Resources Inc. (QEP or the Company), today announced that its wholly owned subsidiary QEP Energy has entered into two definitive agreements with multiple sellers to acquire significant crude oil development properties in the Williston Basin for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $1.38 billion (the Acquisition). The properties are located in Williams and McKenzie counties of North Dakota, approximately 12 miles west of QEPs existing core acreage in the Williston Basin.
Acquisition Highlights:
 
 
 
 
"The Acquisition will add a new contiguous block of QEP-operated acreage in a localized sweet spot for both the Bakken and Three Forks formations, as evidenced by above average well performance and EURs from wells drilled to-date in both reservoirs, said Chuck Stanley, Chairman, President and CEO of QEP.  To drive operational efficiency, we have historically targeted the best rock in contiguous operated acreage blocks in the basins in which we operate.  The Acquisition meets our criteria perfectly.  Further, the Acquisition gives us a greater degree of operational flexibility in allocating rigs and personnel on our various assets in North Dakota.  The Acquisition will allow our talented team of drilling and completion specialists to achieve the scale necessary to improve capital and operating efficiencies and drive down costs. We expect the growth potential of these assets to have a significant impact on our overall production, and more specifically on our crude oil production, Stanley added.
Tudor, Pickering, Holt & Co. advised the seller group in this transaction. Vinson & Elkins LLP is QEPs counsel on this transaction.
In anticipation of the completion of the Acquisition, QEP has adjusted its full-year 2012 guidance from that given in its second-quarter earnings release issued on July 31, 2012. The adjusted guidance assumes the results of operations for the acquired properties will be reflected in QEPs financial and operational results for only the fourth quarter of 2012.  The updated guidance uses the same price assumptions for natural gas, crude oil, and basis provided previously in QEPs earnings release dated July 31, 2012.  The production volume impact of the Acquisition is from the closing date through yearend.   New guidance for full-year 2012 is as follows:
QEP will host a conference call to discuss the Acquisition on August 24, 2012 at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time (6:30 a.m. Mountain Time).  Slides to accompany the conference call have been posted on the QEP website at .  The conference call can be heard live through a link on the QEP website or by dialing (888) 813-5202 domestically or (706) 902-0993 internationally and then entering the conference ID # 24165301.  Attendees should log in to the webcast or dial in approximately 15 minutes prior to the call's start time.  A replay of the conference call will be available on the website and a telephone audio replay will be available for approximately 15 days by calling (855) 859-2056 domestically or (404) 537-3406 internationally and then entering conference ID # 24165301.
www.qepres.com
About QEP Resources Inc.
QEP Resources Inc. (NYSE: QEP) is a leading independent natural gas and crude oil exploration and production company focused in two major regions: the Northern Region (primarily in the Rockies) and the Southern Region (primarily Oklahoma, Louisiana, and the Texas Panhandle) of the United States.  QEP Resources also gathers, compresses, treats, processes and stores natural gas.  For more information, visit QEP Resources' website at www.qepres.com.
 
 
 
Cautionary Statements
  This release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27(a) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  Forward-looking statements can be identified by words such as "anticipates," "believes," "forecasts," "plans," "estimates," "expects," "should," "will" or other similar expressions.  Such statements are based on management's current expectations, estimates and projections, which are subject to a wide range of uncertainties and business risks.  These forward-looking statements include statements regarding the anticipated closing date of the Acquisition, estimated proved and probable reserves to be acquired, estimated ultimate recoveries of wells to be acquired in the Bakken and Three Forks formations, estimated percentages of crude oil, NGL and natural gas from such formations, forecasted prices of natural gas and crude oil, estimated locations, estimated future net development capital for the acquired assets, increase in QEPs estimated net acreage in the Williston Basin following the Acquisition, funding for the Acquisition, operational flexibility and improved capital and operating efficiencies following the Acquisition, expected impact on production, and forecasted Adjusted EBITDA.  Actual results may differ materially from those included in the forward-looking statements due to a number of factors including, without limitation, prices for natural gas, oil and NGLs; availability of capital; disruptions of QEPs ongoing business, distraction of management and employees, increased expenses and adversely affected results of operations from organizational modifications due to the Acquisition; the assumption of unidentified or unforeseeable liabilities from the Acquisition; drilling and production costs; availability of drilling services and equipment; regulatory and other approvals; recoveries of gas in place; actual drilling results; lease expirations;general economic conditions, including the performance of financial markets and interest rates, global geopolitical and macroeconomic factors;  weather conditions and factors identified in the section of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011.  QEP undertakes no obligation to publicly correct or update the forward-looking statements in this release, in other documents, or on the Web site to reflect future events or circumstances.
Forward-Looking Statements.
 
Risk Factors
The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) requires oil and gas companies, in their filings with the SEC, to disclose proved reserves that a company has demonstrated by actual production or through reliable technology to be economically and legally producible at specific prices and existing economic and operating conditions.  The SEC permits optional disclosure of probable and possible reserves, however QEP has made no such disclosures in its filings with the SEC.  In this release, QEP uses the term estimated ultimate recoveries or EUR.  These estimates are by their nature more speculative than estimates of proved, probable or possible reserves and accordingly are subject to substantially more risks of actually being realized.  The SEC guidelines strictly prohibit QEP from including such estimates in its filings with the SEC.  Actual quantities that may be ultimately recovered from QEPs interests may differ substantially from the estimates contained in this presentation.  Investors are urged to closely consider the disclosures about QEPs reserves in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, and in other reports on file with the SEC.
Estimated Ultimate Recoveries.
  QEP refers to Adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP measure that management believes is a good tool to assess QEPs operating results.  Management generally defines Adjusted EBITDA as net income before each of the following: separation costs, discontinued operations, loss on early debt extinguishment, unrealized gains and losses on basis-only swaps, gains and losses on asset sales, interest and other income, interest expense, depreciation, depletion and amortization, abandonments and impairments, exploration expense and income taxes.  This release refers to forecasted Adjusted EBITDA for the year ended 2012.  Due to the forward-looking nature of this non-GAAP financial measure for future periods, information to reconcile it to forecasted net income, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, is not available at this time, as management is unable to project special items, mark-to-market adjustments and certain other factors for future periods.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures.
 
 


