FILE:QEP/QEP-8K-20120301123856.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Underwriting Agreement
On February 27, 2012, QEP Resources, Inc. (the "Registrant") entered into an underwriting agreement (the "Underwriting Agreement") with Wells Fargo Securities, LLC for itself and as representative of the other underwriters named on Schedule A thereto (collectively the "Underwriters"), relating to the issuance and sale by the Registrant of $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 5.375% Notes due 2022 (the "Notes"). The sale of the Notes has been made under the Registrant's registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-179709) (the "Registration Statement").
In the Underwriting Agreement, the Registrant made various representations and warranties to the Underwriters and generally agreed to indemnify, subject to the exceptions in the Underwriting Agreement, the Underwriters and their respective affiliates from, among other things, any untrue statement of a material fact, or omission to state a material fact, in the Registration Statement, the disclosure package or the prospectus related thereto.
Indenture, Notes and Officer's Certificate
On March 1, 2012, the Registrant completed the public offering of the Notes. The Registrant intends to use the net proceeds from the offering of approximately $493.0 million, after deducting the underwriting discount and commissions and estimated offering expenses, to repay indebtedness outstanding under the Registrant's revolving credit facility.
The terms of the Notes are governed by an Indenture dated as of March 1, 2012 (the "Indenture"), between the Registrant and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee (the "Trustee"), and an officer's certificate setting forth the terms of the Notes, dated as of March 1, 2012 (the "Officer's Certificate").
The Notes mature on October 1, 2022. Interest will be payable semi-annually in arrears on April 1 and October 1 of each year, beginning on October 1, 2012 at the rate of 5.375% per year. The Notes are unsecured and rank equally with the Registrant's other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness from time to time outstanding and senior in right of payment to the Registrant's subordinated indebtedness from time to time outstanding. If the Registrant experiences certain kinds of changes of control, it will offer to repurchase all of the Notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the repurchase date. The Registrant may redeem the Notes, at any time in whole or from time to time in part, at the redemption prices set forth in the Officer's Certificate.
The Indenture and the Officer's Certificate are filed herewith as Exhibits 4.1 and 4.2, respectively, and incorporated by reference herein.
Relationships
The Underwriters and certain of their affiliates have provided from time to time, and may provide in the future, investment and commercial banking and financial advisory services to us and our affiliates in the ordinary course of business, for which they have received and may continue to receive customary fees and commissions.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
List of Exhibits:
 

Exhibit 1.1
 
 
 
Dated: February 27, 2012
 
 
 
 
 
 
February 27, 2012
Wells Fargo Securities, LLC
As Representative of
Wells Fargo Securities, LLC
BMO Capital Markets Corp.
Deutsche Bank Securities Inc.
J.P. Morgan Securities LLC
and the several Underwriters named in hereto
Schedule A
c/o Wells Fargo Securities, LLC
301 South College Street
Charlotte, North Carolina 28288-0613
Ladies and Gentlemen:
QEP Resources, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), confirms its agreement with Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, BMO Capital Markets Corp., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and each of the other Underwriters named in hereto (collectively, the "," which term shall also include any underwriter substituted as hereinafter provided in hereof), for whom Wells Fargo Securities, LLC is acting as representative (in such capacity, the ""), with respect to the issue and sale by the Company and the purchase by the Underwriters, acting severally and not jointly, of the respective principal amounts set forth in of $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 5
Company
Schedule A
Underwriters
Section 13
Representative
Schedule A
 3
/
8
% senior notes due 2022 (the ""). The Securities are to be issued pursuant to an indenture to be dated as of March 1, 2012 (the "") between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee (the ""). The term "," as used herein, includes the Officer's Certificate (as defined in the Indenture) establishing the form and terms of the Securities pursuant to Sections 2.01 and 2.04 of the Indenture.
Securities
Indenture
Trustee
Indenture
The Company understands that the Underwriters propose to make a public offering of the Securities as soon as the Representative deems advisable after this Agreement has been executed and delivered and the Indenture has been qualified under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (collectively, the "").
Trust Indenture Act
The Company and the Underwriters, in accordance with the requirements of Rule 5121(a) ("") of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. ("") and subject to the terms and conditions stated herein, hereby confirm the engagement of the services of Goldman, Sachs & Co. and Goldman Sachs & Co. hereby confirms its agreement to act as a "qualified independent underwriter" within the meaning of Rule 5121(f)(12) in connection with the offering and sale of the Securities. Goldman, Sachs & Co., in its capacity as qualified independent underwriter and not otherwise, is referred to herein as the "." As compensation for the services of the QIU hereunder, the Company agrees to pay the QIU $10,000 at the Closing Time.
Rule 5121(a)
FINRA
QIU
SECTION 1. . The Company represents and warrants to each Underwriter as of the date hereof, as of the Closing Time referred to in hereof, and agrees with each Underwriter, as follows:
Representations and Warranties of the Company
Section 3(b)
(a) The Company has prepared and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") a registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-179709), which contains a base prospectus (the ""), to be used in connection with the public offering and sale of the Securities. Such registration statement, as amended, including the financial statements, exhibits and schedules thereto, at each time of effectiveness under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (collectively, the ""), including any required information deemed to be a part thereof at the time of effectiveness pursuant to Rule 430B under the Securities Act or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (collectively, the ""), is called the "." Any preliminary prospectus supplement to the Base Prospectus that describes the Securities and the offering thereof and is used prior to filing of the Prospectus is called, together with the Base Prospectus, a "." The term "" shall mean the final prospectus supplement relating to the Securities, together with the Base Prospectus, that is first filed pursuant to Rule 424(b) after the date and time that this Agreement is executed and delivered by the parties hereto. Any reference herein to the Registration Statement, any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus shall be deemed to refer to and include the documents incorporated by reference therein pursuant to Item 12 of Form S-3 under the Securities Act; any reference to any amendment or supplement to any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus shall be deemed to refer to and include any documents filed after the date of such preliminary prospectus or Prospectus, as the case may be, under the Exchange Act, and incorporated by reference in such preliminary prospectus or Prospectus, as the case may be; and any reference to any amendment to the Registration Statement shall be deemed to refer to and include any annual report of the Company filed pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act after the effective date of the Registration Statement that is incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement. All references in this Agreement to the Registration Statement, a preliminary prospectus, the Prospectus, or any amendments or supplements to any of the foregoing, shall include any copy thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to its Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval System ("").
Commission
Base Prospectus
Securities Act
Exchange Act
Registration Statement
preliminary prospectus
Prospectus
EDGAR
(b) . The Company meets the requirements for use of Form S-3 under the Securities Act. The Registration Statement has become effective under Rule 462(e) upon filing with the Commission under the Securities Act. No post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement has been filed as of the date of this Agreement and no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued under the Securities Act and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or are pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, are contemplated by the Commission, and any request on the part of the Commission for additional information has been complied with.
Compliance with Registration Requirements
At the time the Registration Statement became effective and at the date hereof, the Registration Statement and any amendments and supplements thereto complied and will comply in all material respects with the requirements of the Securities Act and the Trust Indenture Act, and did not and will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading. Neither the Prospectus nor any amendments or supplements thereto, at the time the Prospectus or any
 
such amendment or supplement was issued and at the Closing Time, included or will include an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or will omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The representations and warranties in this subsection shall not apply to statements in or omissions from the Registration Statement or Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto made in reliance upon and in conformity with information furnished to the Company in writing by or on behalf of any Underwriter through the Representative expressly for use in the Registration Statement or Prospectus, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by the Representative consists of the information described as such in hereof.
Section 8
Each preliminary prospectus and the prospectus filed as part of the Registration Statement as originally filed or as part of any amendment thereto, or filed pursuant to Rule 424 under the Securities Act, complied when so filed in all material respects with the Securities Act and each preliminary prospectus and the Prospectus delivered to the Underwriters for use in connection with this offering was identical to the electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
(c) . The documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package (as defined below) and the Prospectus, at the times they were or hereafter are filed with the Commission, complied and will comply in all material respects with the requirements of the Exchange Act, and, when read together with the other information in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, at the times the Registration Statement became effective, at the time the Prospectus was issued and at the Closing Time, did not and will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
Incorporated Documents
(d) . (i) At the time of filing the Registration Statement, (ii) at the time of the most recent amendment thereto for the purposes of complying with Section 10(a)(3) of the Securities Act (whether such amendment was by post-effective amendment, incorporated report filed pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act or form of prospectus), (iii) at the time the Company or any person acting on its behalf (within the meaning, for this clause only, of Rule 163(c) of the Securities Act) made any offer relating to the Securities in reliance on the exemption of Rule 163 of the Securities Act, and (iv) at the Applicable Time (as defined herein) (with such date and time being used as the determination date for purposes of this clause (iv)), the Company was and is a "well-known seasoned issuer" as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. The Registration Statement is an "automatic shelf registration statement," as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act, that has been filed with the Commission not earlier than three years prior to the Closing Date; the Company has not received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) of the Securities Act objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form; and the Company has not otherwise ceased to be eligible to use the automatic shelf registration form.
Well-Known Seasoned Issuer
(e) . The term "" shall mean (i) the Base Prospectus, including any preliminary prospectus, as amended or supplemented, (ii) the issuer free writing prospectuses as defined in Rule 433 of the Securities Act (each, an ""), if any, identified in hereto, (iii) any other free writing prospectus that the parties hereto shall hereafter expressly agree in writing to treat as part of the Disclosure Package and (iv) the Final Term Sheet (as defined herein), which also shall be identified in hereto. As of 4:29 p.m. (New York City time) on the date of this Agreement (the "
Disclosure Package
Disclosure Package
Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
Schedule C
Schedule C
Applicable
 
"), the Disclosure Package did not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The preceding sentence does not apply to statements in or omissions from the Disclosure Package based upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by or on behalf of any Underwriter through the Representative specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by the Representative consists of the information described as such in hereof.
Time
Section 8
(f) . (i) At the earliest time after the filing of the Registration Statement relating to the Securities that the Company or another offering participant made a offer (within the meaning of Rule 164(h)(2) of the Securities Act) and (ii) as of the date of the execution and delivery of this Agreement (with such date being used as the determination date for purposes of this clause (ii)), the Company was not and is not an "ineligible issuer" (as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act, without taking account of any determination by the Commission pursuant to Rule 405 of the Securities Act that it is not necessary that the Company be considered an ineligible issuer), including, without limitation, for purposes of Rules 164 and 433 under the Securities Act with respect to the offering of the Securities as contemplated by the Registration Statement.
Company Not Ineligible Issuer
bona fide
(g) . Each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, as of its issue date and at all subsequent times through the completion of the offering or until any earlier date that the Company notified or notifies the Representative as described in the next sentence, did not, does not and will not include any information that conflicted, conflicts or will conflict with the information contained in the Registration Statement, any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus, including in each case, any document incorporated by reference therein that has not been superseded or modified. If at any time following issuance of an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus there occurred or occurs an event or development as a result of which such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus conflicted or would conflict with the information contained in the Registration Statement, any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus, the Company has promptly notified or will promptly notify the Representative and has promptly amended or supplemented or will promptly amend or supplement, at its own expense, such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus to eliminate or correct such conflict. The foregoing two sentences do not apply to statements in or omissions from any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus based upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by or on behalf of any Underwriter through the Representative specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by the Representative consists of the information described as such in hereof.
Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses
Section 8
(h) . The Company has not distributed and will not distribute, prior to the later of the Closing Time and the completion of the Underwriters' distribution of the Securities, any offering material in connection with the offering and sale of the Securities other than a preliminary prospectus, the Prospectus, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus reviewed and consented to by the Representative and included in hereto or the Registration Statement.
Distribution of Offering Material by the Company
Schedule C
(i) . The accountants who certified the financial statements and supporting schedules included or incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus are, to the best knowledge of the Company, a registered public accounting firm independent of the Company as required by the Securities Act and the rules and regulations of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).
Accountants
 
(j) . The financial statements included in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus present fairly the financial position of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries as at the dates indicated and the results of their operations for the periods specified; except as otherwise stated in such document, such financial statements have been prepared in conformity with United States generally accepted accounting principles applied on a consistent basis; and the supporting schedules included in the Registration Statement present fairly the information required to be stated therein. The selected financial data included in each of the preliminary prospectus and the Prospectus present fairly the information shown therein and have been compiled on a basis consistent with that of the audited financial statements included in such document. The Company does not have any material liabilities or obligations, direct or contingent (including any off-balance sheet obligations or any "variable interest entities"), not disclosed in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus. There are no financial statements (historical or pro forma) that are required to be included in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus that are not included as required. The Company's ratio of earnings to fixed charges set forth in each of the preliminary prospectus and the Prospectus have been calculated in compliance with Item 503(d) of Regulation S-K under the Securities Act. The interactive data in eXtensible Business Reporting Language included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus fairly present the information called for in all material respects and have been prepared in accordance with the Commission's rules and guidelines applicable thereto.
Financial Statements
(k) . Since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, except as otherwise stated therein, (a) there has been no material adverse change in the condition, financial or otherwise, or in the earnings, business affairs or business prospects of the Company and its subsidiaries considered as one enterprise, whether or not arising in the ordinary course of business, (b) there have been no transactions entered into by the Company or any of its subsidiaries, other than those in the ordinary course of business, which are material with respect to the Company and its subsidiaries considered as one enterprise, and (c) except for the regular dividends, there has been no dividend or distribution of any kind declared, paid or made by the Company on any class of its capital stock.
Material Changes or Material Transactions
(l) . The Company has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware with corporate power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties and to conduct its business as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus; and the Company is duly qualified as a foreign corporation to transact business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required, whether by reason of the ownership or leasing of property or the conduct of business, except where the failure to so qualify or be in good standing would not have a material adverse effect on the condition, financial or otherwise, or the earnings, business affairs or business prospects of the Company and its subsidiaries considered as one enterprise (a "").
Due Incorporation and Qualification
Material Adverse Effect
(m) . Each subsidiary of the Company has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation, has corporate power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties and to conduct its business as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus and is duly qualified as a foreign corporation to transact business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required, whether by reason of the ownership of property or the conduct of business, except where the failure to so qualify or be in good standing would not have a Material Adverse Effect; and all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of each subsidiary has been duly
Subsidiaries
 
authorized and validly issued, is fully paid and nonassessable and is owned by the Company, directly or through subsidiaries, free and clear of any security interest, mortgage, pledge, lien, encumbrance, claim or equity.
(n) . The shares of issued and outstanding common stock of the Company have been duly authorized and validly issued and are fully paid and nonassessable.
Capital Stock
(o) . This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
Authorization of Agreement
(p) . The Securities have been duly authorized and, at the Closing Time, will have been duly executed by the Company and, when authenticated, issued and delivered in the manner provided for in the Indenture and delivered against payment of the purchase price therefor as provided in this Agreement, will constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium and similar laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors' rights and general equitable principles, and will be entitled to the benefits provided by the Indenture, which will be substantially in the form filed as an exhibit to the Registration Statement; the Indenture has been duly authorized and, at the Closing Time, will have been duly executed and delivered by the Company and the Indenture has been duly qualified under the Trust Indenture Act and, at the Closing Time, will constitute a valid and legally binding instrument of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium and similar laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors' rights and general equitable principles; and the Securities and the Indenture conform to the respective descriptions thereof in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
Authorization and Validity of the Indenture and the Securities
(q) . Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is in violation of its charter or bylaws or in default in the performance or observance of any obligation, agreement, covenant or condition contained in any contract, indenture, mortgage, loan agreement, note, lease or other instrument to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or by which it or any of them may be bound, or to which any of the property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is subject, which violations or defaults in the aggregate would have a Material Adverse Effect; and the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the consummation of the transactions contemplated herein, in the Disclosure Package and in the Prospectus have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action and will not conflict with or constitute a breach of, or a default under, or result in the creation or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, except as expressly contemplated in the Indenture or except as would not have a Material Adverse Effect, pursuant to any contract, indenture, mortgage, loan agreement, note, lease or other instrument to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or by which it or any of them may be bound, or to which any of the property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is subject, nor will such action result in any violation of the provisions of the charter or bylaws of the Company or, except as would not have a Material Adverse Effect, any applicable law, administrative regulation or administrative or court decree.
No Defaults; Regulatory Approvals
(r) . There is no action, suit or proceeding before or brought by any court or governmental agency or body, domestic or foreign, now pending, or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened, against the Company or any of its subsidiaries, which is required to be disclosed in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus (other than as disclosed therein) or which would reasonably be expected to result in a Material
Legal Proceedings; Contracts
 
Adverse Effect, or which would materially and adversely affect the properties or assets thereof or the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or the performance by the Company of its obligation hereunder; all pending legal or governmental proceedings to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or which any of their respective property is subject which are not described in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, including ordinary routine litigation incidental to the business, considered in the aggregate, would not reasonably be expected to cause a Material Adverse Effect; and there are no contracts or documents of the Company or any of its subsidiaries which are required to be filed as exhibits to the Registration Statement by the Securities Act which have not been so filed.
(s) . No authorization, approval or consent of any court or governmental authority or agency is necessary in connection with the sale of the Securities hereunder, except such as may be required under the Securities Act and state securities laws and except as have been obtained.
No Governmental Authorization
(t) . The Company and its subsidiaries possess such valid franchises, certificates of convenience and necessity, easements, rights-of-way, operating rights, licenses, permits, consents, authorizations and orders of governmental political subdivisions or regulatory authorities as are necessary to conduct the business now operated by them, except those the failure of which to possess would not have a Material Adverse Effect, and neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has received any notice of proceedings relating to the revocation or modification thereof which, singly or in the aggregate, if the subject of an unfavorable decision, ruling or finding would have a Material Adverse Effect.
Possession of Permits
(u) . Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is regulated or required to be registered as an "investment company" under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the "").
Investment Company Act
Investment Company Act
(v) [INTENTIONALLY OMITTED].
(w) . The Company maintains on a consolidated basis (i) effective internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) and Rule 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act, and (ii) a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurance that (A) transactions are executed in accordance with management's general or specific authorizations; (B) transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles and to maintain asset accountability; (C) access to assets is permitted only in accordance with management's general or specific authorization; (D) the recorded accountability for assets is compared with the existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences; and (E) the interactive data in eXtensible Business Reporting Language included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus fairly present the information called for in all material respects and are prepared in accordance with the Commission's rules and guidelines applicable thereto.
Internal Controls and Procedures
(x) . Except as disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, or in any document incorporated by reference therein, since the end of the Company's most recent audited fiscal year, there has been (i) no material weakness in the Company's internal control over financial reporting (whether or not remediated) and (ii) no change in the Company's internal control over financial reporting that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company's internal control over financial reporting.
No Material Weakness in Internal Controls
 
(y) . There is and has been no failure on the part of the Company and any of the Company's directors or officers, in their capacities as such, to comply with any provision of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations promulgated in connection therewith, including Section 402 related to loans and Sections 302 and 906 related to certifications.
Sarbanes-Oxley Compliance
(z) . Any certificate signed by any director or officer of the Company and delivered to the Representative or to counsel for the Underwriters shall be deemed a representation and warranty by the Company to the Underwriters as to the matters covered thereby.
Additional Certifications
SECTION 2. .
Qualified Independent Underwriter
(a) The Company hereby confirms its engagement of Goldman, Sachs & Co. as, and Goldman, Sachs & Co. hereby confirms its agreement with the Company to render services as, a "qualified independent underwriter" within the meaning of Rule 5121(f)(12) of FINRA with respect to the offering and sale of the Securities.
(b) The QIU hereby represents and warrants to, and agrees with, the Company and the Underwriters that with respect to the offering and sale of the Securities as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus:
(i) The QIU constitutes a "qualified independent underwriter" within the meaning of Rule 5121(f)(12);
(ii) The QIU has participated in the preparation of the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus and has exercised the usual standards of "due diligence" in respect thereto; and
(iii) The QIU has undertaken the legal responsibilities and liabilities of an underwriter under the Securities Act specifically including those inherent in Section 11 thereof.
(c) The Company agrees to cooperate with the Underwriters and the QIU to enable the Underwriters to comply with Rule 5121(a) and the QIU to perform the services contemplated by this Agreement.
SECTION 3. .
Sale and Delivery to Underwriters; Closing
(a) . On the basis of the representations and warranties herein contained and subject to the terms and conditions herein set forth, the Company agrees to sell to each Underwriter, severally and not jointly, and each Underwriter, severally and not jointly, agrees to purchase from the Company at a price of 98.75% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued interest, if any, from the Closing Time, the aggregate principal amount of the Securities set forth on opposite the name of such Underwriter, plus any additional principal amount of the Securities, as the case may be, which such Underwriter may become obligated to purchase pursuant to the provisions of hereof.
Securities
Schedule A
Section 13
(b) . Payment of the purchase price for, and delivery of certificates for, the Securities shall be made at the offices of Cahill Gordon & Reindel , 80 Pine Street, New York, NY 10005, or at such other place as shall be agreed upon by the Representative and the Company, at 10:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the third business day after the date hereof (unless postponed in accordance with the provisions of ), or such other time not later than ten business days after such date as shall be agreed upon by the Representative and the Company (such time and date of payment and delivery being herein called "").
Payment
LLP
Section 13
Closing Time
 
Payment shall be made to the Company by wire transfer of immediately available funds to a bank account designated by the Company, against delivery to the Representative for the respective accounts of the Underwriters of certificates for the Securities to be purchased by them. It is understood that each Underwriter has authorized the Representative, for its account, to accept delivery of, receipt for, and make payment of the purchase price for, the Securities which it has agreed to purchase.
(c) . Certificates for the Securities shall be in minimum denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof and registered in such names as the Representative may request in writing at least one full business day before Closing Time. The Securities will be made available for examination and packaging by the Representative in The City of New York not later than 10:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the business day prior to Closing Time.
Denominations; Registration
SECTION 4. . The Company covenants with each Underwriter as follows:
Covenants of the Company
(a) . The Company, subject to hereof, will comply with the requirements of Rule 430B, and will notify the Representative immediately, and confirm the notice in writing, (i) when any post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement shall become effective, or any supplement to the Prospectus or any amended Prospectus or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus shall have been filed, (ii) of the receipt of any comments from the Commission concerning the Registration Statement, (iii) of any request by the Commission for any amendment to the Registration Statement or any amendment or supplement to the Prospectus or for additional information, and (iv) of the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or of any order preventing or suspending the use of any preliminary prospectus, or of the suspension of the qualification of the Securities for offering or sale in any jurisdiction, or of the initiation or threatening of any proceedings for any of such purposes. The Company will promptly effect the filings necessary pursuant to Rule 424(b) and will take such steps as it deems necessary to ascertain promptly whether the form of prospectus transmitted for filing under Rule 424(b) was received for filing by the Commission and, in the event that it was not, it will promptly file such prospectus. The Company will make every reasonable effort to prevent the issuance of any stop order and, if any stop order is issued, to obtain the lifting thereof at the earliest possible moment.
Compliance with Securities Regulations and Commission Requests
Section 4(b)
(b) . During the period beginning on the Applicable Time and ending on the later of the Closing Time or such date, as in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriters, the Prospectus is no longer required by law to be delivered in connection with sales by an Underwriter or dealer, including in circumstances where such requirement may be satisfied pursuant to Rule 172 (the ""), prior to amending or supplementing the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus (including any amendment or supplement through incorporation by reference of any report filed under the Exchange Act), the Company shall furnish to the Representative for review a copy of each such proposed amendment or supplement, and the Company shall not file or use any such proposed amendment or supplement to which the Representative reasonably objects.
Representative's Review of Proposed Amendments and Supplements
Prospectus Delivery Period
(c) . The Company will comply with the Securities Act, the Exchange Act and the Trust Indenture Act so as to permit the completion of the distribution of the Securities
Amendments and Supplements to the Registration Statement, Prospectus and Other Securities Act Matters
 
as contemplated in this Agreement and in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus. If, during the Prospectus Delivery Period, any event or development shall occur or condition exist as a result of which the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus as then amended or supplemented would include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein in the light of the circumstances under which they were made or then prevailing, as the case may be, not misleading, or if it shall be necessary to amend or supplement the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, or to file under the Exchange Act any document incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made or then prevailing, as the case may be, not misleading, or if in the opinion of the Representative it is otherwise necessary to amend or supplement the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, or to file under the Exchange Act any document incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, or to file a new registration statement containing the Prospectus, in order to comply with law, including in connection with the delivery of the Prospectus, the Company agrees to (i) notify the Representative of any such event or condition and (ii) promptly prepare (subject to and hereof), file with the Commission (and use its best efforts to have any amendment to the Registration Statement or any new registration statement to be declared effective) and furnish at its own expense to the Underwriters and to dealers, amendments or supplements to the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, or any new registration statement, necessary in order to make the statements in the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus as so amended or supplemented, in the light of the circumstances then prevailing or under which they were made, as the case may be, not misleading or so that the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, as amended or supplemented, will comply with law.
Sections 4(b)
4(e)
(d) . The Company will prepare a final term sheet containing only a description of the Securities, in a form approved by the Representative and contained in hereto, and will file such term sheet pursuant to Rule 433(d) under the Securities Act within the time required by such rule (such term sheet, the "").
Final Term Sheet
Schedule B
Final Term Sheet
(e) . The Company represents that it has not made, and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior written consent of the Representative (which shall not be unreasonably withheld), it will not make, any offer relating to the Securities that would constitute an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or that would otherwise constitute a "free writing prospectus" (as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act) required to be filed by the Company with the Commission or retained by the Company under Rule 433 of the Securities Act; provided that the prior written consent of the Representative hereto shall be deemed to have been given in respect of the Free Writing Prospectuses included in hereto. Any such free writing prospectus consented to by the Representative is hereinafter referred to as a "." The Company agrees that (i) it has treated and will treat, as the case may be, each Permitted Free Writing Prospectus as an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, and (ii) has complied and will comply, as the case may be, with the requirements of Rules 164 and 433 of the Securities Act applicable to any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus, including in respect of timely filing with the Commission, legending and record keeping. Each Underwriter represents that it has not and will not use any written communication that constitutes an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy the Securities other than a free writing prospectus that (a) is not an "issuer free writing prospectus" as defined in Rule 433, and (b) contains only (i) information describing the preliminary terms of the Securities or their offering, (ii) information permitted by Rule 134 under the Securities Act or (iii) information that describes the final terms of the Securities or their offering and that is included in the Final Term Sheet of the Company contemplated in hereof.
Permitted Free Writing Prospectuses
Schedule C
Permitted Free Writing Prospectus
Section 4(d)
 
(f) . The Company has furnished or will deliver to the Representative and counsel for the Underwriters, without charge, signed copies of the Registration Statement as originally filed and of each amendment thereto (including exhibits filed therewith or incorporated by reference therein and documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference therein) and signed copies of all consents and certificates of experts, and will also deliver to the Representative, without charge, a conformed copy of the Registration Statement as originally filed and of each amendment thereto (without exhibits) for each of the Underwriters. The copies of the Registration Statement and each amendment thereto furnished to the Underwriters will be identical to the electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
Delivery of Registration Statements
(g) . The Company has delivered to each Underwriter, without charge, as many copies of each preliminary prospectus as such Underwriter reasonably requested, and the Company has delivered to each Underwriter, without charge, as many copies of each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus as such Underwriter reasonably requested, and the Company hereby consents to the use of such copies for purposes permitted by the Securities Act. The Company will furnish to each Underwriter, without charge, during the Prospectus Delivery Period, such number of copies of the Prospectus (as amended or supplemented) as such Underwriter may reasonably request. The Prospectus and any amendments or supplements thereto furnished to the Underwriters will be identical to the electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
Delivery of Prospectuses
(h) . The Company will endeavor, in cooperation with the Underwriters, to qualify the Securities for offering and sale under the applicable securities laws of such states and other jurisdictions as the Representative may designate and to maintain such qualifications in effect for a period of not less than one year from the later of the date hereof or such shorter period as is necessary to complete the distribution of the Securities; , , that the Company shall not be obligated to file any general consent to service of process or to qualify as a foreign corporation or as a dealer in securities in any jurisdiction in which it is not so qualified or to subject itself to taxation in respect of doing business in any jurisdiction in which it is not otherwise so subject. In each jurisdiction in which the Securities have been so qualified, the Company will file such statements and reports as may be required by the laws of such jurisdiction to continue such qualification in effect for a period of not less than one year from the effective date of the Registration Statement. The Company will also supply the Underwriters with such information as is necessary for the determination of the legality of the Securities for investment under the laws of such jurisdictions as the Underwriters may request.
Blue Sky Qualifications
provided
however
(i) . The Company will timely file such reports pursuant to the Exchange Act as are necessary in order to make generally available to its securityholders as soon as practicable an earnings statement for the purposes of, and to provide to the Underwriters the benefits contemplated by, the last paragraph of Section 11(a) of the Securities Act.
Rule 158
(j) . The Company will use the net proceeds received by it from the sale of Securities in the manner specified in each of the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus under "Use of Proceeds."
Use of Proceeds
(k) . During a period of 30 days from the date of the Prospectus, the Company will not, without the prior written consent of the Representative, directly or indirectly, issue, sell, offer, pledge or contract to sell, grant any option, right or warrant for the sale of, lend or otherwise transfer or dispose of, any debt securities of the Company or any securities convertible into, or exercisable or exchangeable for, debt securities of the Company, other than such securities representing commercial bank debt or intercompany debt.
Restriction on Sale of Securities
 
(l) . The Company, during the Prospectus Delivery Period, will file all documents required to be filed with the Commission pursuant to the Exchange Act within the time periods required by the Exchange Act.
Reporting Requirements
SECTION 5. .
Payment of Expenses
(a) . The Company will pay all expenses incident to the performance of its obligations under this Agreement, including (i) the preparation, printing and filing of the Registration Statement (including financial statements and exhibits) as originally filed and of each amendment thereto, (ii) the preparation, printing and delivery to the Underwriters of this Agreement, any Agreement among Underwriters, the Indenture and such other documents as may be required in connection with the offering, purchase, sale, issuance or delivery of the Securities, (iii) the preparation, issuance and delivery of the certificates, if any, for the Securities to the Underwriters, (iv) the fees and disbursements of the Company's counsel, accountants and other advisors, (v) the qualification of the Securities under securities laws in accordance with the provisions of Section 4(h) hereof, including filing fees and the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Underwriters in connection therewith and in connection with the preparation of the Blue Sky Survey and any supplement thereto, (vi) the printing and delivery to the Underwriters of copies of each preliminary prospectus, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus and of the Prospectus and any amendments or supplements thereto, (vii) the fees and expenses of the Trustee, including the fees and disbursements of counsel for the Trustee in connection with the Indenture and the Securities, (viii) any fees payable in connection with the rating of the Securities, (ix) all costs and expenses of the QIU incurred in its capacity as "qualified independent underwriter" within the meaning of FINRA Conduct Rule 5121 in connection with the offering of the Securities, (x) any costs, expenses and filing fees incurred in connection with the qualification of the Securities for sale under the laws of such jurisdiction as the Representative designates (including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel relating to such qualification) and the preparation and printing of memoranda relating thereto, costs and expenses related to the review by FINRA of the offering (including filing fees, but excluding the fees and expenses of counsel and any special counsel for the Underwriters relating to such review), and (xi) all other costs and expenses of the Company and its representatives incident to the performance by the Company of its obligations hereunder.
Expenses
(b) . If this Agreement is terminated by the Representative in accordance with the provisions of or or (only with respect to the Company's securities) hereof, the Company shall reimburse the Underwriters for all of their out-of-pocket expenses, including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Underwriters.
Termination of Agreement
Section 6
Section 12(a)(i)
(a)(iii)
SECTION 6. . The obligations of the several Underwriters hereunder are subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the Company contained in hereof or in certificates of any officer of the Company delivered pursuant to the provisions hereof, to the performance by the Company of its covenants and other obligations hereunder, and to the following further conditions:
Conditions of Underwriters' Obligations
Section 1
(a) . For the period from and after effectiveness of this Agreement and prior to the Closing Time:
Compliance with Registration Requirements; No Stop Order
(i) the Company shall have filed any preliminary prospectus and the Prospectus with the Commission (including the information required by Rule 430B under the Securities Act) in the manner and within the time period required by Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act; or the
 
Company shall have filed a post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement containing the information required by such Rule 430B, and such post-effective amendment shall have become effective;
(ii) the Final Term Sheet, and any other material required to be filed by the Company pursuant to Rule 433(d) under the Securities Act, shall have been filed with the Commission within the applicable time periods prescribed for such filings under such Rule 433; and
(iii) no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement, or any post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement, shall be in effect and no proceedings for such purpose shall have been instituted or threatened by the Commission.
(b) . At Closing Time, the Representative shall have received the favorable opinion, dated as of Closing Time, of Eric L. Dady, Esq., counsel for the Company, who may rely as to all matters governed by Federal and New York law upon the opinion of Latham and Watkins LLP referred to below, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to counsel for the Underwriters as set forth in .
Opinion of Eric L. Dady, Esq
Schedule D
(c) . At Closing Time, the Representative shall have received the favorable opinion and a 10b-5 statement, dated as of Closing Time, of Latham and Watkins LLP, counsel for the Company, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to counsel for the Underwriters as set forth in .
Opinion and 10b-5 Statement of Company Counsel
Schedule E
(d) . The Representative shall have received from Cahill Gordon & Reindel , counsel to the Underwriters, such opinion or opinions and 10b-5 statement, dated the Closing Time, with respect to the issuance and sale of the Securities, the Indenture, the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package, the Prospectus and other related matters as the Representative may reasonably require, and the Company shall have furnished to such counsel such documents as they request for the purpose of enabling them to pass upon such matters.
Opinion and 10b-5 Statement of Counsel to the Underwriters
LLP
(e) . At Closing Time, there shall not have been, since the date hereof or since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Prospectus or the Disclosure Package, any material adverse change in the condition, financial or otherwise, or in the earnings, business affairs or business prospects of the Company and its subsidiaries considered as one enterprise, whether or not arising in the ordinary course of business, and the Representative shall have received a certificate of the President or a Vice President of the Company and of the chief financial or chief accounting officer of the Company, dated as of Closing Time, to the effect that (i) there has been no such material adverse change, (ii) the representations and warranties in hereof are true and correct with the same force and effect as though expressly made at and as of Closing Time, (iii) the Company has complied with all covenants and agreements and satisfied all conditions on its part to be performed or satisfied at or prior to Closing Time, and (iv) no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or are pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, are contemplated by the Commission.
Officers' Certificate
Section 1
(f) . At the time of the execution of this Agreement, the Representative shall have received from Ernst & Young LLP a letter dated such date, in form and substance satisfactory to the Representative, together with signed or reproduced copies of such letter for each of the other Underwriters containing statements and information of the type ordinarily included in accountants' "comfort letters" to underwriters with respect to the financial statements and certain financial information contained in the Registration Statement, the preliminary prospectus and the Prospectus.
Accountant's Comfort Letter
 
(g) . At Closing Time, the Representative shall have received from Ernst & Young LLP a letter, dated as of Closing Time, to the effect that they reaffirm the statements made in the letter furnished pursuant to subsection (f) of this Section, except that the specified date referred to shall be a date not more than three business days prior to Closing Time.
Bring-down Comfort Letter
(h) . At the time of the execution of this Agreement, the Representative shall have received from Ryder Scott Company, a letter, dated such date, in form and substance satisfactory to the Representative, together with signed or reproduced copies of such letter for each of the other Underwriters with respect to the statements and certain information contained in or incorporated in the Registration Statement, the preliminary prospectus and the Prospectus regarding proved reserves, future production and income attributable to certain leasehold and royalty interests of QEP Energy Company.
Reserve Report Confirmation Letter
(i) . At the Closing Time, the Representative shall have received from Ryder Scott Company, a letter, dated as of the Closing Time, to the effect that they reaffirm the statements made in the letter pursuant to subsection (h) of this Section.
Bring Down Reserve Report Letter
(j) . At Closing Time, counsel for the Underwriters shall have been furnished with such documents and opinions as they may reasonably require for the purpose of enabling them to pass upon the issuance and sale of the Securities as herein contemplated, or in order to evidence the accuracy of any of the representations or warranties, or the fulfillment of any of the conditions, herein contained; and all proceedings taken by the Company in connection with the issuance and sale of the Securities as herein contemplated shall be reasonably satisfactory in form and substance to the Representative and counsel for the Underwriters.
Additional Documents
(k) . If any condition specified in this Section shall not have been fulfilled when and as required to be fulfilled, this Agreement may be terminated by the Representative by notice to the Company at any time at or prior to Closing Time, and such termination shall be without liability of any party to any other party except as provided in and except that , , and shall survive any such termination and remain in full force and effect.
Termination of Agreement
Section 5
Sections 1
8
9, 10
11
SECTION 7. . The QIU hereby consents to the references to it as set forth under the caption "Underwriting; Conflicts of Interest" in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus and in any amendment or supplement thereto made in accordance with hereof.
QIU Consent
Section 4
SECTION 8. .
Indemnification
(a) .
Indemnification of Underwriters
(i) The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter and each person, if any, who controls any Underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act as follows:
(A) against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense whatsoever, as incurred, arising out of any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto), including, without limitation, the Rule 430B Information, or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading or arising out of any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading;
 
(B) against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense whatsoever, as incurred, to the extent of the aggregate amount paid in settlement of any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or of any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue statement or omission, or any such alleged untrue statement or omission; that (subject to below) any such settlement is effected with the written consent of the Company; and
provided
Section 8(d)
(C) against any and all expense whatsoever, as incurred (including, subject to hereof, the fees and disbursements of counsel chosen by the Representative), reasonably incurred in investigating, preparing or defending against any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue statement or omission, or any such alleged untrue statement or omission, to the extent that any such expense is not paid under (A) or (B) above;
Section 8(c)
, , that this indemnity agreement shall not apply to any loss, liability, claim, damage or expense to the extent arising out of any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representative expressly for use in the Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto), the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto). The foregoing indemnity shall not inure to the benefit of any Underwriter from whom the person asserting any such losses, claims, damages or liabilities purchased the Securities, or any person controlling such Underwriter, where it shall have been determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment that (i) prior to the Applicable Time the Company shall have notified such Underwriter in writing that the Disclosure Package contains an untrue statement of material fact or omits to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein in order to make the statements therein not misleading, (ii) such untrue statement or omission of a material fact was corrected in an amendment or supplement to the Disclosure Package and such amendment or supplement was provided to such Underwriter at least twenty-four hours prior to the Applicable Time and, to the extent that physical delivery is required, in sufficient quantity so that such amendment or supplement could have been conveyed to such person prior to the Applicable Time, (iii) the information contained in such amendment or supplement was not conveyed to such person at or prior to the Applicable Time with respect to such person and (iv) such loss, claim, damage or liability would not have occurred had such amendment or supplement been conveyed to such person.
provided
however
(b) . Each Underwriter severally agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, its directors, each of its officers who signed the Registration Statement, and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense described in the indemnity contained in subsection (a) of this Section, as incurred, but only with respect to untrue statements or omissions, or alleged untrue statements or omissions, made in the Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto), including, without limitation, the Rule 430B Information, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) in each case in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by such Underwriter through the Representative expressly for use therein, and will reimburse any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by the Company in connection with investigating or defending such loss, liability, claim, damage, expense or action as such expenses are incurred.
Indemnification of Company, Directors and Officers
 
(c) . Each indemnified party shall give notice as promptly as reasonably practicable to each indemnifying party of any action commenced against it in respect of which indemnity may be sought hereunder, but failure to so notify an indemnifying party shall not relieve such indemnifying party from any liability hereunder to the extent it is not materially prejudiced as a result thereof and in any event shall not relieve it from any liability which it may have otherwise than on account of this indemnity agreement. In the case of parties indemnified pursuant to above, counsel to the indemnified parties shall be selected by the Representative, and, in the case of parties indemnified pursuant to above, counsel to the indemnified parties shall be selected by the Company. If it so elects within a reasonable time after receipt of such notice, an indemnifying party, jointly with any other indemnifying parties receiving such notice, may assume the defense of such action with counsel chosen by it and approved by the indemnified parties defendant in such action (which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld), unless such indemnified parties reasonably object to such assumption on the ground that there may be legal defenses available to them which are different from or in addition to those available to such indemnifying party. If an indemnifying party assumes the defense of such action, the indemnifying party shall not be liable for any fees and expenses of counsel for the indemnified parties incurred thereafter in connection with such action other than the reasonable costs of investigation. In no event shall the indemnifying parties be liable for fees and expenses of more than one counsel (in addition to any local counsel) separate from their own counsel for all indemnified parties in connection with any one action or separate but similar or related actions in the same jurisdiction arising out of the same general allegations or circumstances. No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified parties, settle or compromise or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever in respect of which indemnification or contribution could be sought under this or hereof (whether or not the indemnified parties are actual or potential parties thereto), unless such settlement, compromise or consent (i) includes an unconditional release of each indemnified party from all liability arising out of such litigation, investigation, proceeding or claim and (ii) does not include a statement as to or an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of any indemnified party.
Actions Against Parties; Notification
Section 8(a)
Section 8(b)
Section 8
Section 9
(d) . If at any time an indemnified party shall have requested an indemnifying party to reimburse the indemnified party for fees and expenses of counsel, such indemnifying party agrees that it shall be liable for any settlement of the nature contemplated by effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 45 days after receipt by such indemnifying party of the aforesaid request, (ii) such indemnifying party shall have received notice of the terms of such settlement at least 30 days prior to such settlement being entered into and (iii) such indemnifying party shall not have reimbursed such indemnified party in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement. Notwithstanding the immediately preceding sentence, if at any time an indemnified party shall have requested an indemnifying party to reimburse the indemnified party for fees and expenses of counsel, an indemnifying party shall not be liable for any settlement of the nature contemplated by effected without its consent if such indemnifying party (i) reimburses such indemnified party in accordance with such request to the extent it considers such request to be reasonable and (ii) provides written notice to the indemnified party substantiating the unpaid balance as unreasonable, in each case prior to the date of such settlement.
Settlement Without Consent if Failure to Reimburse
Section 8(a)(i)(B)
Section 8(a)(i)(B)
SECTION 9. . If the indemnification provided for in hereof is for any reason (except as provided therein) unavailable to or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party in respect of any losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses referred to therein, each indemnifying party shall severally agree to contribute to the aggregate losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses incurred by such indemnified party, as incurred (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other from the offering of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) is not permitted by
Contribution
Section 8
 
applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the Company on the one hand and of the Underwriters on the other in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative benefits of the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other in connection with the offering of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement shall be deemed to be in the same respective portions as the total net proceeds from the offering of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement (before deducting expenses) received by the Company, and the total underwriting discounts and commissions received by the Underwriters with respect to the Securities purchased under this Agreement.
The relative fault of the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any such untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company on the one hand or by the Underwriters on the other and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
The Company and the Underwriters agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Underwriters were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to above in this . The aggregate amount of losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses incurred by an indemnified party and referred to above in this shall be deemed to include any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in investigating, preparing or defending against any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission.
Section 9
Section 9
Section 9
Notwithstanding the provisions of this , in no case shall any Underwriter or the QIU (except as may be provided in any agreement among the Underwriters relating to the offering of the Securities) be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which the Securities underwritten and distributed to the public by such Underwriter or the QIU were offered to the public exceeds the amount of any damages which such Underwriter has otherwise been required to pay by reason of any such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission.
Section 9
No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation.
For purposes of this , each director of an Underwriter, each officer of an Underwriter, each affiliate of an Underwriter, and each person, if any, who controls an Underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act shall have the same rights to contribution as such Underwriter, and each director of the Company, each officer of the Company who signed the Registration Statement, and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company. The Underwriters' respective obligations to contribute pursuant to this are several in proportion to the principal amount of Securities set forth opposite their respective names in hereto and not joint.
Section 9
Section 9
Schedule A
SECTION 10. .
Indemnification and Contribution of QIU
(a) The Company will indemnify and hold harmless Goldman, Sachs & Co., in its capacity as QIU, against any losses, claims, damages or liabilities, joint or several, to which the QIU may become
 
subject, under the Securities Act or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon (i) an untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement or the Disclosure Package, or any amendment or supplement thereto, (ii) the omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading or (iii) any act or omission to act or any alleged act or omission to act by Goldman, Sachs & Co. as QIU in connection with any transaction contemplated by this Agreement or undertaken in preparing for the purchase, sale and delivery of the Securities, except as to this clause (iii) to the extent that any such loss, claim, damage or liability results from the gross negligence or bad faith of Goldman, Sachs & Co. in performing the services as QIU, and will reimburse the QIU for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by the QIU in connection with investigating or defending any such action or claim as such expenses are incurred.
(b) Promptly after receipt by the QIU under subsection (a) above of notice of the commencement of any action, the QIU shall, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against the Company under such subsection, notify the Company in writing of the commencement thereof; but the omission so to notify the Company shall not relieve it from any liability which it may have to the QIU otherwise than under such subsection. In case any such action shall be brought against the QIU and it shall notify the Company of the commencement thereof, the Company shall be entitled to participate therein and, to the extent that it shall wish, jointly with any other indemnifying party similarly notified, to assume the defense thereof, with counsel satisfactory to the QIU (who shall not, except with the consent of the QIU, be counsel to the Company), and, after notice from the indemnifying party to the QIU of its election so to assume the defense thereof, the indemnifying party shall not be liable to the QIU under such subsection for any legal expenses of other counsel or any other expenses, in each case subsequently incurred by the QIU, in connection with the defense thereof other than reasonable costs of investigation. The Company shall not, without the written consent of the indemnified party, effect the settlement or compromise of, or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to, any pending or threatened action or claim in respect of which indemnification or contribution may be sought hereunder (whether or not the QIU is an actual or potential party to such action or claim) unless such settlement, compromise or judgment (i) includes an unconditional release of the QIU from all liability arising out of such action or claim and (ii) does not include a statement as to or an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act, by or on behalf of the QIU.
(c) If the indemnification provided for in this is unavailable to or insufficient to hold harmless Goldman, Sachs & Co., in its capacity as QIU, under subsection (a) above in respect of any losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) referred to therein, then the Company shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by the QIU as a result of such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and the QIU on the other from the offering of the Securities. If, however, the allocation provided by the immediately preceding sentence is not permitted by applicable law or if the QIU failed to give the notice required under subsection (b) above, then the Company shall contribute to such amount paid or payable by the QIU in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only such relative benefits but also the relative fault of the Company on the one hand and the QIU on the other in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof), as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and the QIU on the other shall be deemed to be in the same proportion as the total net proceeds from the offering (before deducting expenses) received by the Company, as set forth in the table on the cover page of the Prospectus, bear to the fee payable to the QIU pursuant to the preamble and hereof. The relative fault shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company on the one hand or the QIU on the other and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission. The Company and the QIU agree that it
Section 10(c)
Section 5(a)(ix)
 
would not be just and equitable if contributions pursuant to this subsection (c) were determined by pro rata allocation or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to above in this subsection (c). The amount paid or payable by the QIU as a result of the losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) referred to above in this subsection (c) shall be deemed to include any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in connection with investigating or defending any such action or claim. No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation.
(d) The obligations of the Company under this ) shall be in addition to any liability which the Company may otherwise have and shall extend, upon the same terms and conditions, to each person, if any, who controls the QIU within the meaning of the Securities Act.
Section 10(d
SECTION 11. . All representations, warranties and agreements contained in this Agreement or in certificates of officers of the Company or any of its subsidiaries submitted pursuant hereto, shall remain operative and in full force and effect, regardless of any investigation made by or on behalf of any Underwriter or controlling person, or by or on behalf of the Company, and shall survive delivery of the Securities to the Underwriters.
Representations, Warranties and Agreements to Survive Delivery
SECTION 12. .
Termination of Agreement
(a) . The Representative may terminate this Agreement, by notice to the Company, at any time at or prior to Closing Time (i) if there has been, since the time of execution of this Agreement or since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Prospectus or the Disclosure Package, any material adverse change in the condition, financial or otherwise, or in the earnings, business affairs or business prospects of the Company and its subsidiaries considered as one enterprise, whether or not arising in the ordinary course of business, or (ii) if there has occurred any material adverse change in the financial markets in the United States or any outbreak of hostilities or escalation thereof or other calamity or crisis, in each case the effect of which is such as to make it, in the reasonable judgment of the Representative, impracticable or inadvisable to market the Securities or to enforce contracts for the sale of the Securities, or (iii) if trading in the securities of the Company has been suspended or materially limited by the Commission, or if trading generally on the American Stock Exchange or the New York Stock Exchange or in the NASDAQ Global Market has been suspended or materially limited, or minimum or maximum prices for trading have been fixed, or maximum ranges for prices have been required, by any of the exchanges or by such system or by order of the Commission, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority or any other governmental authority, or (iv) if a banking moratorium has been declared by either Federal, New York or Delaware authorities, or (v) there has occurred a material disruption in commercial banking or securities settlement or clearance services.
Termination; General
(b) . If this Agreement is terminated pursuant to this Section, such termination shall be without liability of any party to any other party except as provided in hereof, and provided further that , , , and shall survive such termination and remain in full force and effect.
Liabilities
Section 5
Sections 1
8
9
10
11
SECTION 13. . If one or more of the Underwriters shall fail at Closing Time to purchase the Securities which it or they are obligated to purchase under this Agreement (the ""), the Representative shall have the right, within 24 hours thereafter, to make arrangements for one or more of the non-defaulting Underwriters, or any other underwriters, to purchase all, but not less than all, of the Defaulted Securities in such amounts as may be agreed upon and upon the terms herein set forth; if, however, the Representative shall not have completed such arrangements within such 24-hour period, then:
Default by One or More of the Underwriters
Defaulted Securities
 
(a) if the number of Defaulted Securities does not exceed 10% of the aggregate principal amount of the Securities to be purchased hereunder, each of the non-defaulting Underwriters shall be obligated, severally and not jointly, to purchase the full amount thereof in the proportions that their respective underwriting obligations hereunder bear to the underwriting obligations of all non-defaulting Underwriters, or
(b) if the number of Defaulted Securities exceeds 10% of the aggregate principal amount of the Securities to be purchased hereunder, this Agreement shall terminate without liability on the part of any non-defaulting Underwriter.
No action taken pursuant to this Section shall relieve any defaulting Underwriter from liability in respect of its default.
In the event of any such default which does not result in a termination of this Agreement, either the Representative or the Company shall have the right to postpone Closing Time for a period not exceeding seven days in order to effect any required changes in the Registration Statement or Prospectus or in any other documents or arrangements. As used herein, the term "" includes any person substituted for an Underwriter under this .
Underwriter
Section 13
SECTION 14. . All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if mailed or transmitted by any standard form of telecommunication. Notices to the Underwriters shall be directed to the Representative at Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, 301 South College Street, 6th Floor, Charlotte, North Carolina 28288-0613, Attention: Transaction Management Department; notices to the QIU shall be directed to it at Goldman, Sachs & Co., 200 West Street, New York, NY 10282, Attention: Registration Department; and notices to the Company shall be directed to it at 1050 17th St, Suite 500, Denver, Colorado 80265, attention of Richard J. Doleshek, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer.
Notices
SECTION 15. . This Agreement shall each inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the Underwriters and the Company and their respective successors. Nothing expressed or mentioned in this Agreement is intended or shall be construed to give any person, firm or corporation, other than the Underwriters and the Company and their respective successors and the controlling persons and officers and directors referred to in , and and their heirs and legal representatives, any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or in respect of this Agreement or any provision herein contained. This Agreement and all conditions and provisions hereof are intended to be for the sole and exclusive benefit of the Underwriters and the Company and their respective successors, and the controlling persons and officers and directors and their heirs and legal representatives, and for the benefit of no other person, firm or corporation. No purchaser of Securities from any Underwriter shall be deemed to be a successor by reason merely of such purchase.
Parties
Sections 8
9
10
SECTION 16. . The Company acknowledges and agrees that (i) the purchase and sale of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement, including the determination of the public offering price of the Securities and any related discounts and commissions, is an arm's-length commercial transaction between the Company, on the one hand, and the several Underwriters, on the other hand, and the Company is capable of evaluating and understanding and understands and accepts the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement; (ii) in connection with each transaction contemplated hereby and the process leading to such transaction each Underwriter is and has been acting solely as a principal and is not the financial advisor, agent or fiduciary of the Company or its affiliates, stockholders, creditors or employees or any other party; (iii) no Underwriter has assumed or will assume an advisory, agency or fiduciary responsibility in favor of the Company with respect to any of the transactions contemplated hereby or the process leading thereto (irrespective of whether such Underwriter
No Advisory or Fiduciary Responsibility
 
has advised or is currently advising the Company on other matters) and no Underwriter has any obligation to the Company with respect to the offering contemplated hereby except the obligations expressly set forth in this Agreement; (iv) the several Underwriters and their respective affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Company and that the several Underwriters have no obligation to disclose any of such interests by virtue of any advisory, agency or fiduciary relationship; and (v) the Underwriters have not provided any legal, accounting, regulatory or tax advice with respect to the offering contemplated hereby and the Company has consulted its own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it deemed appropriate.
This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings (whether written or oral) between the Company and the several Underwriters, or any of them, with respect to the subject matter hereof. The Company hereby waives and releases, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any claims that the Company may have against the several Underwriters with respect to any breach or alleged breach of agency or fiduciary duty.
SECTION 17. . THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, SECTION 5-1401 OF THE NEW YORK GENERAL OBLIGATIONS LAW. SPECIFIED TIMES OF DAY REFER TO NEW YORK CITY TIME. THE UNDERWRITERS AND THE QIU, ON THE ONE HAND, AND THE COMPANY (ON ITS OWN BEHALF AND TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, ON BEHALF OF ITS STOCKHOLDERS), ON THE OTHER HAND, WAIVE ANY RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY ACTION, CLAIM, SUIT OR PROCEEDING WITH RESPECT TO YOUR ENGAGEMENT AS UNDERWRITER OR QIU OR YOUR ROLE IN CONNECTION HEREWITH.
GOVERNING LAW, TIME AND WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL
SECTION 18. E. The Article and Section headings herein and the Table of Contents are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
ffect of Headings
SECTION 19. . In accordance with the requirements of the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)), the underwriters are required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies their respective clients, including the Company, which information may include the name and address of their respective clients, as well as other information that will allow the underwriters to properly identify their respective clients.
Patriot Act
 
If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding of our agreement, please sign and return to the Company a counterpart hereof, whereupon this instrument, along with all counterparts, will become a binding agreement between the Underwriters and the Company in accordance with its terms.
 
 
CONFIRMED AND ACCEPTED,
as of the date first above written:
For itself and as Representative of the other Underwriters named in hereto.
Schedule A
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pro Forma Earnings to Fixed Charges:
 
 
 
 
Issuer Free Writing Prospectus filed pursuant to Rule 433
supplementing the Preliminary Prospectus Supplement dated February 27, 2012
(Registration No. 333- 179709)
February 27, 2012
 
Pricing Supplement dated February 27, 2012 to Preliminary Prospectus Supplement dated February 27, 2012 of QEP Resources, Inc. This Pricing Supplement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Preliminary Prospectus Supplement. The information in this Pricing Supplement supplements the Preliminary Prospectus Supplement and supersedes the information in the Preliminary Prospectus Supplement to the extent it is inconsistent with the information in the Preliminary Prospectus Supplement. . Capitalized terms used in this Pricing Supplement but not defined have the meanings given them in the Preliminary Prospectus Supplement.
Financial information present in the Preliminary Prospectus Supplement is deemed to have changed to the extent affected by changes described herein
 
 
Pro Forma Earnings to Fixed Charges:
 
 
 
 
The issuer has filed a registration statement (including a prospectus) with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("") for the offering to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement and other documents the issuer has filed with the SEC for more complete information about the issuer and this offering. You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at www.sec.gov. Alternatively, the issuer, any underwriter or any dealer participating in the offering will arrange to send you the prospectus if you request it by calling Wells Fargo Securities, LLC toll free at (800) 326-5897.
SEC
 
(i) The documents incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus (other than the financial statements and supporting schedules and other financial or reserve data included therein or omitted therefrom, as to which such counsel need express no opinion), when they were filed with the Commission complied as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the Exchange Act.
(ii) Such counsel does not know of any contracts or documents required to be filed as exhibits to the Registration Statement which are not filed as required.
(iii) Such counsel does not know of any legal or governmental proceedings relating to regulatory matters pending to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or to which any of their property is subject that are required to be disclosed in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus pursuant to Item 103 of Regulation S-K of the Securities Act which are not so disclosed as required.
 
1. The Company is a corporation under the DGCL with corporate power and authority to own its properties and to conduct its business as described in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus. With your consent, based solely on certificates from public officials, we confirm that the Company is validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware.
2. The execution, delivery and performance of the Underwriting Agreement have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action of the Company, and the Underwriting Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by the Company.
3. The execution and delivery of the Underwriting Agreement, and the issuance and the sale of the Notes by the Company to you and the other Underwriters pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement do not on the date hereof:
(i) violate the Company's Governing Documents; or
(ii) result in the breach of or a default under any of the Specified Agreements; or
(iii) violate any federal or New York statute, rule or regulation or the DGCL; or
(iv) require any consents, approvals, or authorizations to be obtained by the Company from, or any registrations, declarations or filings to be made by the Company with, any governmental authority under any federal or New York statute, rule or regulation applicable to the Company or the DGCL on or prior to the date hereof that have not been obtained or made.
4. The Registration Statement has become effective under the Act. With your consent, based solely on a telephonic confirmation by a member of the Staff of the Commission on [            ], 2012, we confirm that no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued under the Act and no proceedings therefor have been initiated by the Commission. The Preliminary Prospectus has been filed in accordance with Rule 424(b) under the Act, the Prospectus has been filed in accordance with Rules 424(b) and 430B under the Act, and the Specified IFWP has been filed in accordance with Rule 433(d) under the Act.
5. The Registration Statement at [            ], 2012, including the information deemed to be a part thereof pursuant to Rule 430B under the Act and the Prospectus, as of its date, each appeared on their face to be appropriately responsive in all material respects to the applicable form requirements for registration statements on Form S-3 under the Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder; it being understood, however, that we express no view with respect to Regulation S-T, the Statement of Eligibility and Qualification of the Trustee on Form T-1, or the financial statements, schedules, or other financial data or the oil and gas reserve and production information, included in, incorporated by reference in, or omitted from, the Registration Statement or the Prospectus. For purposes of this paragraph, we have assumed that the statements made in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus are correct and complete.
 
6. The Company is not, and immediately after giving effect to the sale of the Notes in accordance with the Underwriting Agreement and the application of the proceeds as described in the Prospectus under the caption "Use of Proceeds," will not be required to be, registered as an "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
7. The Indenture has been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action of the Company, has been duly executed and delivered by the Company and is the legally valid and binding agreement of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms.
8. The Notes have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action of the Company and, when executed, issued and authenticated in accordance with the terms of the Indenture and delivered and paid for in accordance with the terms of the Underwriting Agreement, will be legally valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms.
9. The Indenture has been qualified under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended. The statements in the Prospectus under the caption "Description of Notes," insofar as they purport to describe or summarize certain provisions of the Notes, are accurate summaries or descriptions in all material respects.
Such counsel is not passing upon and does not assume any responsibility for the accuracy, completeness or fairness of the statements contained in, or incorporated by reference in, the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus, any Specified IFWP, the Prospectus, or the Incorporated Documents, (except to the extent expressly set forth in the numbered paragraph 5 above), and has not made an independent check or verification thereof (except as aforesaid). Such counsel shall state that they have participated in conferences and telephone conversations with officers and other representatives of the Company, the independent public accountants for the Company, the independent petroleum engineers for the Company, the Representative and its counsel, during which conferences and conversations the contents of the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus, the Specified IFWP, the Prospectus and the Incorporated Documents and related matters were discussed. Such counsel may review and rely upon certain corporate records and documents, letters from counsel and accountants, and oral and written statements of officers and other representatives of the Company and others as to the existence and consequence of certain factual and other matters.
Based on the foregoing, such counsel shall state that no facts have come to its attention that caused it to believe that:
 
 
 
it being understood that such counsel expresses no belief with respect to the financial statements, schedules, oil and gas reserve reports or other financial or reserve engineer reports or data included or incorporated by reference in, or omitted from, the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus, the Specified IFWP, the Prospectus, the Incorporated Documents or the Form T-1.
 

Exhibit 4.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: This reconciliation and tie shall not, for any purpose, be deemed to be a part of the Indenture.
 
 
 
 
 
 
INDENTURE dated as of March 1, 2012 between QEP Resources, Inc., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (herein called the "Company"), and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, a national banking association, as trustee (herein called the "Trustee").
The Company has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Indenture to provide for the issuance from time to time of its debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness (herein called the "Securities"), to be issued in one or more series as in this Indenture provided.
All things necessary to make this Indenture a valid agreement of the Company, in accordance with its terms, have been done.
NOW, THEREFORE, THIS INDENTURE WITNESSETH:
For and in consideration of the premises and the purchase of the Securities by the Holders thereof, it is mutually agreed, for the equal and proportionate benefit of all Holders of the Securities or of series thereof, as follows:
Section 1.01 .
Definitions
"Additional Amounts" means any additional amounts required by the express terms of a Security or by or pursuant to a Board Resolution, under circumstances specified therein or pursuant thereto, to be paid by the Company with respect to certain taxes, assessments or other governmental charges imposed on certain Holders and that are owing to those Holders.
"Affiliate" of any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by, or under direct or indirect common control with, that specified Person. For purposes of this definition, "control" of a Person shall mean the power to direct the management and policies of that Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise, and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" shall have meanings correlative to the foregoing.
"Agent" means any Registrar or Paying Agent.
"Attributable Debt" means, as of the date of determination, the present value of net rent for the remaining term of a capital lease, determined in accordance with GAAP, which is part of a Sale and Leaseback Transaction, including any periods for which the lessee has the right to renew or extend the lease. For purposes of the foregoing, "net rent" means the sum of capitalized rental payments required to be paid by the lessee, other than amounts required to be paid by the lessee for maintenance, repairs, insurance, taxes, assessments, energy, fuel, utilities and similar charges. In the case of a capital lease which is terminable by the lessee upon the payment of a penalty, such net amount shall also include the amount of such penalty, but no rent shall be considered to be required to be paid under such lease subsequent to the first date upon which it may be so terminated.
 
"Bankruptcy Law" means Title 11 of the United States Code or any similar federal, state or foreign law for the relief of debtors.
"Board of Directors" means the Board of Directors of the Company or any committee thereof duly authorized, with respect to any particular matter, to act by or on behalf of the Board of Directors of the Company.
"Board Resolution" means a copy of a resolution certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company to have been duly adopted by the Board of Directors and to be in full force and effect on the date of that certification, and delivered to the Trustee.
"Business Day" means any day that is not a Legal Holiday.
"Capital Stock" means, with respect to any Person, any and all shares, interests, rights to purchase (other than convertible or exchangeable Indebtedness), warrants, options, participations or other equivalents of or interests (however designated) in stock issued by that corporation.
"Company" means the Person named as the "Company" in the first paragraph of this instrument until a successor corporation shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Company" shall mean that successor corporation; provided, however, that for purposes of any provision contained herein which is required by the TIA, "Company" shall also mean each other obligor (if any) on the Securities of a series.
"Company Order" and "Company Request" mean, respectively, a written order or request signed in the name of the Company by an Officer of the Company, and delivered to the Trustee.
"Consolidated Capitalization" means, without duplication, the sum of (a) the principal amount of Consolidated Funded Debt of the Company and its Subsidiaries at the time outstanding, (b) the total capital represented by the capital stock of the Company and its Subsidiaries at the time outstanding, based, in the case of stock having par value, upon its par value, and in the case of stock having no par value, upon the value stated on the books of the Company or such Subsidiary, as the case may be, (c) the total amount of (or less the amount of any deficit in) retained earnings and paid-in capital of the Company and its Subsidiaries, (d) reserves for deferred federal and state income taxes arising from timing differences, and (e) Attributable Debt, all as shown on a consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Subsidiaries prepared in accordance with GAAP; that in determining the consolidated retained earnings and paid-in capital of the Company and its Subsidiaries no effect shall be given to any unrealized write-up or write-down in the value of assets or any amortization thereof, except for accumulated provisions for depreciation, depletion, amortization and property retirement which shall have been created by charges made by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries on its books.
provided
"Consolidated Funded Debt" means the Funded Debt of the Company and its Subsidiaries, consolidated in accordance with GAAP.
"Corporate Trust Office" of the Trustee means the office of the Trustee located at 707 Wilshire Blvd., 17
th
Floor, Los Angeles, California 90017, Attention: Corporate Trust Department, and shall mean for Section 4.02, c/o Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, 625 Marquette Avenue, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55402, and as may be located at such other address as the Trustee may give notice to the Company.
 
"Default" means any event, act or condition that is, or after notice or the passage of time or both would be, an Event of Default.
"Depositary" means, with respect to the Securities of any series issuable or issued in whole or in part in global form, the Person specified pursuant to Section 2.01 hereof as the initial Depositary with respect to the Securities of that series, until a successor shall have been appointed and become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Depositary" shall mean or include that successor.
"Dollar" or "$" means a dollar or other equivalent unit in such coin or currency of the United States as at the time shall be legal tender for the payment of public and private debt.
"Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any successor statute, in each case as amended from time to time.
"Funded Debt" means all Indebtedness that will mature, pursuant to a mandatory sinking fund or prepayment provision or otherwise, and all installments of Indebtedness that will fall due, more than one year from the date of determination. In calculating the maturity of any Indebtedness, there shall be included the term of any unexercised right of the debtor to renew or extend such Indebtedness existing at the time of determination.
"GAAP" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, as in effect as of the date or time of any computation required hereunder from time to time.
"Global Security" of any series means a Security of that Series that is issued in global form in the name of the Depositary with respect thereto or its nominee.
"Government Obligations" means, with respect to a series of Securities, direct obligations of the government that issues the currency in which the Securities of the series are payable for the payment of which the full faith and credit of that government is pledged, or obligations of a Person controlled or supervised by and acting as an agency or instrumentality of that government, the payment of which is unconditionally guaranteed as a full faith and credit obligation by that government.
"Holder" means a Person in whose name a Security is registered on the books of the Registrar.
"Indebtedness" means all items of indebtedness for borrowed money (other than unamortized debt discount and premium) which would be included in determining total liabilities as shown on the liability side of a balance sheet prepared in accordance with GAAP as of the date as of which Indebtedness is to be determined, and shall include indebtedness for borrowed money (other than unamortized debt discount and premium) with respect to which the Company or any Subsidiary customarily pays interest secured by any mortgage, pledge or other lien or encumbrance of or upon, or any security interest in, any properties or assets owned by the Company or any Subsidiary, whether or not the Indebtedness secured thereby shall have been assumed, and shall also include guarantees of Indebtedness of others; that in
provided
 
determining Indebtedness of the Company or any Subsidiary there shall be included the aggregate liquidation preference of all outstanding securities of any Subsidiary senior to its Common Stock that are not owned by the Company or a Subsidiary; and , that Indebtedness of any Person shall not include the following:
provided, further
(a) any indebtedness evidence of which is held in treasury (but the subsequent resale of such indebtedness shall be deemed to constitute the creation thereof); or
(b) any particular indebtedness if, upon or prior to the maturity thereof, there shall have been deposited with a depository (or set aside and segregated, if permitted by the instrument creating such indebtedness), in trust, money (or evidence of such indebtedness as permitted by the instrument creating such indebtedness) in the necessary amount to pay, redeem or satisfy such indebtedness; or
(c) any indebtedness incurred to finance oil, natural gas, other hydrocarbon, inert gas or other mineral exploration or development to the extent that the issuer thereof has outstanding advances to finance oil, natural gas, hydrocarbon, inert gas or other mineral exploration or development, but only to the extent such advances are not in default; or
(d) any indebtedness incurred without recourse to the Company or any Subsidiary; or
(e) any indebtedness incurred to finance advance payments for gas (pursuant to take-or-pay provisions or otherwise), but only to the extent that such advance payments are pursuant to gas purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business; or
(f) any amount (whether or not included in determining total liabilities as shown on the liability side of a balance sheet prepared in accordance with GAAP) representing capitalized rent under any lease; or
(g) any indirect guarantees or other contingent obligations in respect of indebtedness of other Persons, including agreements, contingent or otherwise, with such other Persons or with third parties with respect to, or to permit or assure the payment of, obligations of such other Persons, including, without limitation, agreements to purchase or repurchase obligations of such other Persons, to advance or supply funds to, or to invest in, such other Persons, or to pay for property, products or services of such other Persons (whether or not conveyed, delivered or rendered); demand charge contracts, through-put, take-or-pay, keep-well, make-whole or maintenance of working capital or similar agreements; or guarantees with respect to rental or similar periodic payments to be made by such other Persons.
"Indenture" means this Indenture as amended or supplemented from time to time pursuant to the provisions hereof, and includes the terms of a particular series of Securities established as contemplated by Section 2.01.
"Indexed Security" means a Security the terms of which provide that the principal amount thereof payable at Stated Maturity may be more or less than the principal face amount thereof at original issuance.
"Interest Payment Date," when used with respect to any Security, shall have the meaning assigned to that term in the Security as contemplated by Section 2.01.
 
"Issue Date" means, with respect to Securities of a series, the date on which the Securities of that series are originally issued under this Indenture.
"Legal Holiday" means a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which banking institutions in The City of New York, New York or a Place of Payment are authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to remain closed.
"Maturity" means, with respect to any Security, the date on which the principal of that Security or an installment of principal becomes due and payable as therein or herein provided, whether at the Stated Maturity thereof, or by declaration of acceleration, call for redemption or otherwise.
"Officer" means the President, any Vice President, the Chief Financial Officer, the Treasurer, any Assistant Treasurer, the Controller, the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary of the Company.
"Officer's Certificate" means a certificate signed by an Officer of the Company.
"Opinion of Counsel" means a written opinion from legal counsel who is reasonably acceptable to the Trustee. That counsel may be an employee of or counsel to the Company or the Trustee.
"Original Issue Discount Security" means any Security that provides for an amount less than the principal amount thereof to be due and payable on a declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 6.02.
"Outstanding", when used with respect to Securities, means, as of the date of determination, all Securities theretofore authenticated and delivered under this Indenture, except:
(a) Securities theretofore cancelled by the Trustee or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation;
(b) Securities for whose payment or redemption (a) money in the necessary amount has been theretofore deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent (other than the Company) in trust or set aside and segregated in trust by the Company (if the Company shall act as its own Paying Agent) for the Holders of such Securities or (b) Government Obligations as contemplated by Section 8.01 in the necessary amount have been theretofore deposited with the Trustee in trust for the Holders of such Securities in accordance with Section 8.01; that, if such Securities are to be redeemed, notice of such redemption has been duly given pursuant to this Indenture or provisions therefor satisfactory to the Trustee has been made;
provided
(c) any such Security with respect to which the Company has effected Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance pursuant to Section 8.01 hereof; and
(d) Securities which have been paid pursuant to Section 2.09 or in exchange for or in lieu of which other Securities have been authenticated and delivered pursuant to this Indenture, other than any such Securities in respect of which there shall have been presented to the Trustee proof satisfactory to it that such Securities are held by a bona fide purchaser in whose hands such Securities are valid obligations of the Company; , that in determining whether
provided, however
 
the Holders of the requisite principal amount of the Outstanding Securities have given any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver hereunder or are present at a meeting of Holders of Securities for quorum purposes, the principal amount of any Original Issue Discount Securities that shall be deemed to be Outstanding for such purposes shall be equal to the amount of the principal thereof that would be due and payable as of the date of such determination upon a declaration of acceleration of the maturity thereof pursuant to Section 6.02, the principal amount of a Security denominated other than in Dollars shall be deemed to be that amount of Dollars that could be obtained for such principal amount on the basis of the spot rate of exchange for such foreign currency or such currency unit as determined by the Company or by an authorized exchange rate agent, the principal amount of any Indexed Security that may be counted in making such determination and that shall be deemed Outstanding for such purpose shall be equal to the principal face amount of such Indexed Security at original issuance, unless otherwise provided in or pursuant to this Indenture, and Securities owned by the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or of such other obligor shall be disregarded and deemed not to be Outstanding, except that, in determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying upon any such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver, only Securities which the Trustee knows to be so owned shall be so disregarded. Securities so owned which have been pledged in good faith may be regarded as Outstanding if the pledgee establishes to the satisfaction of the Trustee the pledgee's right so to act with respect to such Securities and that the pledgee is not the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or of such other obligor.
"Person" means any individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, incorporated or unincorporated association, joint stock company, trust, unincorporated organization or government or other agency or political subdivision thereof or other entity of any kind.
"Place of Payment" means, with respect to the Securities of any series, the place or places where, subject to the provisions of Section 4.02, the principal of, premium (if any) on and interest on the Securities of that series are payable as specified in accordance with Section 2.01.
"Principal" of a Security means the principal of the Security plus, when appropriate, the premium, if any, on the Security.
"Redemption Date" means, with respect to any Security to be redeemed, the date fixed for that redemption by or pursuant to this Indenture.
"Redemption Price" means, with respect to any Security to be redeemed, the price at which it is to be redeemed pursuant to this Indenture.
"Sale and Leaseback Transaction" means an arrangement in which the Company or a Subsidiary sells any of its property which was placed into service more than 120 days prior to such sale to a Person and leases it back from that Person within 180 days of the sale.
"SEC" means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
"Security" or "Securities" has the meaning stated in the preamble of this Indenture and more particularly means any Securities authenticated and delivered under this Indenture.
 
"Security Custodian" means, with respect to Securities of a series issued in global form, the Trustee for Securities of that series, as custodian with respect to the Securities of that series, or any successor entity thereto.
"Stated Maturity" means, when used with respect to any Security or any installment of principal thereof or interest thereon or any Additional Amounts with respect thereto, the date specified in that Security as the fixed date on which the principal of that Security or that installment of principal or interest is or such Additional Amounts are due and payable.
"Subsidiary" means a corporation more than 50% of the outstanding voting stock of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company or by one or more other Subsidiaries, or by the Company and one or more other Subsidiaries. For the purposes of this definition, "voting stock" means stock that ordinarily has voting power for the election of directors, whether at all times or only so long as no senior class of stock has that voting power by reason of any contingency.
"TIA" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (15 U.S.C. Sections 77aaa-77bbbb), as in effect on the date hereof.
"Trust Officer" shall mean, when used with respect to the Trustee, any officer within the corporate trust department of the Trustee, including any vice president, assistant vice president, assistant secretary, assistant treasurer, trust officer or any other officer of the Trustee who customarily performs functions similar to those performed by the Persons who at the time shall be such officers, respectively, or to whom any corporate trust matter is referred because of such person's knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject and who shall have direct responsibility for the administration of this Indenture.
"Trustee" means the Person named as such above until a successor replaces it in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Trustee" means each Person who is then a Trustee hereunder, and if at any time there is more than one such Person, "Trustee" as used with respect to the Securities of any series means the Trustee with respect to Securities of that series.
"United States" means the United States of America (including the States and the District of Columbia) and its territories and possessions (including Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, Wake Island and the Northern Mariana Islands).
"United States Alien" means any Person who, for United States federal income tax purposes, is a foreign corporation, a nonresident alien individual, a nonresident alien or foreign fiduciary of an estate or trust, or a foreign partnership.
"U.S. Government Obligations" means Government Obligations with respect to Securities payable in Dollars.
"U.S.A. Patriot Act" means the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001, Pub. L. 107-56, as amended and signed into law October 26, 2001.
 
Section 1.02 .
Other Definitions
 
Section 1.03 .
Incorporation by Reference of Trust Indenture Act
Whenever this Indenture refers to a provision of the TIA, the provision is incorporated by reference in and made a part of this Indenture. The following TIA terms used in this Indenture have the following meanings:
"Commission" means the SEC.
"indenture securities" means the Securities.
"indenture security holder" means a Holder.
"indenture to be qualified" means this Indenture.
"indenture trustee" or "institutional trustee" means the Trustee.
"obligor" on the indenture securities means the Company or any other obligor on the Securities.
All terms used in this Indenture that are defined by the TIA, defined by a TIA reference to another statute or defined by an SEC rule under the TIA have the meanings so assigned to them.
Section 1.04
Rules of Construction.
Unless the context otherwise requires:
 
(1) a term has the meaning assigned to it;
(2) an accounting term not otherwise defined has the meaning assigned to it in accordance with GAAP;
(3) "or" is not exclusive;
(4) words in the singular include the plural, and in the plural include the singular;
(5) provisions apply to successive events and transactions; and
(6) all references in this instrument to Articles and Sections are references to the corresponding Articles and Sections in and of this instrument.
Section 2.01 .
Amount Unlimited; Issuable in Series
The aggregate principal amount of Securities that may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture is unlimited.
The Securities may be issued in one or more series. There shall be established in or pursuant to a Board Resolution, and set forth, or determined in a manner provided, in an Officer's Certificate or in a Company Order, or established in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, prior to the issuance of Securities of any series:
(1) the title of the Securities of the series (which shall distinguish the Securities of the series from the Securities of all other series);
(2) if there is to be a limit, the limit on the aggregate principal amount of the Securities of the series that may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture (except for Securities authenticated and delivered on registration of transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, other Securities of the series pursuant to Section 2.08, 2.09, 2.12, 2.16, 3.07 or 9.05 and except for any Securities that, pursuant to Section 2.04 or 2.16, are deemed never to have been authenticated and delivered hereunder); provided, however, that unless otherwise provided in the terms of the series, the authorized aggregate principal amount of that series may be increased before or after the issuance of any Securities of the series by a Board Resolution (or action pursuant to a Board Resolution) to that effect;
(3) whether any Securities of the series are to be issuable initially in temporary global form and whether any Securities of the series are to be issuable in permanent global form, as Global Securities or otherwise, and, if so, whether beneficial owners of interests in any such Global Security may exchange those interests for Securities of that series and of like tenor of any authorized form and denomination and the circumstances under which those exchanges may occur, if other than in the manner provided in Section 2.16, and the initial Depositary and Security Custodian, if any, for any Global Security or Securities of that series;
 
(4) (i) if other than provided herein, the Person to whom any interest on Securities of the series shall be payable, and (ii) the manner in which any interest payable on a temporary Global Security on any Interest Payment Date will be paid if other than in the manner provided in Section 2.13;
(5) the date or dates on which the principal of (and premium, if any, on) the Securities of the series is payable or the method of determination thereof;
(6) the rate or rates, or the method of determination thereof, at which the Securities of the series shall bear interest, if any, whether and under what circumstances Additional Amounts with respect to those Securities shall be payable, the date or dates from which that interest shall accrue, the Interest Payment Dates on which that interest shall be payable and the record date for the interest payable on any Securities on any Interest Payment Date;
(7) the place or places where, subject to the provisions of Section 4.02, the principal of, premium (if any) and interest on and any Additional Amounts with respect to the Securities of the series shall be payable;
(8) the period or periods within which, the price or prices (whether denominated in cash, securities or otherwise) at which and the terms and conditions on which Securities of the series may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company, if the Company is to have that option, and the manner in which the Company may exercise any such option, if different from those set forth herein;
(9) the obligation, if any, of the Company to redeem, purchase or repay Securities of the series pursuant to any sinking fund or analogous provisions or at the option of a Holder thereof and the period or periods within which, the price or prices (whether denominated in cash, securities or otherwise) at which and the terms and conditions on which Securities of the series shall be redeemed, purchased or repaid in whole or in part pursuant to that obligation;
(10) if other than denominations of $2,000 and any integral multiples of $1,000 thereof, the denomination in which any Securities of that series shall be issuable;
(11) if other than Dollars, the currency or currencies (including composite currencies) or the form, including equity securities, other debt securities (including Securities), warrants or any other securities or property of the Company or any other Person, in which payment of the principal of, premium (if any) and interest on and any Additional Amounts with respect to the Securities of the series shall be payable;
(12) if the principal of, premium (if any) or interest on or any Additional Amounts with respect to the Securities of the series are to be payable, at the election of the Company or a Holder thereof, in a currency or currencies (including composite currencies) other than that in which the Securities are stated to be payable, the currency or currencies (including composite currencies) in which payment of the principal,
 
premium (if any), interest and any Additional Amounts with respect to Securities of that series as to which that election is made shall be payable, and the periods within which and the terms and conditions on which that election is to be made;
(13) if the amount of payments of principal, premium (if any), interest and any Additional Amounts with respect to the Securities of the series may be determined with reference to any commodities, currencies or indices, values, rates or prices or any other index or formula, the manner in which those amounts shall be determined;
(14) if other than the entire principal amount thereof, the portion of the principal amount of Securities of the series that shall be payable on declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 6.02;
(15) any additional means of satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture and any additional conditions or limitations to discharge with respect to Securities of the series pursuant to Article VIII or any modifications of or deletions from those conditions or limitations;
(16) any deletions or modifications of or additions to the Events of Default set forth in Section 6.01 or covenants of the Company set forth in Article IV pertaining to the Securities of the series;
(17) any restrictions or other provisions with respect to the transfer or exchange of Securities of the series, which may amend, supplement, modify or supersede those contained in this Article II;
(18) if the Securities of the series are to be convertible into or exchangeable for Capital Stock, other debt securities (including Securities), warrants, other equity securities or any other securities or property of the Company or any other Person, at the option of the Company or the Holder or on the occurrence of any condition or event, the terms and conditions for that conversion or exchange;
(19) if the Securities of the series are to be entitled to the benefit of Section 4.03(b); and
(20) any other terms of the Securities (whether or not such other terms are consistent or inconsistent with any other terms of this Indenture and any deletions from or modifications or additions to this Indenture with respect to such Securities).
All Securities of any one series shall be substantially identical except as to denomination and except as may otherwise be provided in or pursuant to the Board Resolution referred to above and (subject to Section 2.03) set forth, or determined in the manner provided, in the Officer's Certificate or Company Order referred to above or in any such indenture supplemental hereto.
If any of the terms of the series are established by action taken pursuant to a Board Resolution, a copy of an appropriate record of that action together with that Board Resolution shall be set forth in an Officer's Certificate or certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company and delivered to the Trustee at or prior to the delivery of the Officer's Certificate or Company Order setting forth the terms of the series.
 
Section 2.02 .
Denominations
The Securities of each series shall be issuable in such denominations as shall be specified as contemplated by Section 2.01. In the absence of any such provisions with respect to the Securities of any series, the Securities of that series denominated in Dollars shall be issuable in denominations of $2,000 and any integral multiples of $1,000 thereof.
Section 2.03 .
Forms Generally
The Securities of each series shall be in fully registered form and in substantially the form or forms (including temporary or permanent global form) established by or pursuant to a Board Resolution or in one or more indentures supplemental hereto. The Securities may have notations, legends or endorsements required by law, securities exchange rule, the Company's certificate of incorporation, bylaws or other similar governing documents, agreements to which the Company is subject, if any, or usage (provided that any such notation, legend or endorsement is in a form acceptable to the Company). A copy of the Board Resolution establishing the form or forms of Securities of any series shall be delivered to the Trustee at or prior to the delivery of the Company Order contemplated by Section 2.04 for the authentication and delivery of those Securities.
The definitive Securities of each series shall be printed, lithographed or engraved on steel engraved borders or may be produced in any other manner, all as determined by the Officers executing those Securities, as evidenced by their execution thereof.
The Trustee's certificate of authentication shall be in substantially the following form:
"This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
Section 2.04 .
Execution, Authentication, Delivery and Dating
An Officer of the Company shall sign the Securities of each series on behalf of the Company by manual or facsimile signature.
If an Officer of the Company whose signature is on a Security no longer holds that office at the time the Security is authenticated, the Security shall be valid nevertheless.
 
A Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under this Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose until authenticated by the manual signature of an authorized signatory of the Trustee, which signature shall be conclusive evidence that the Security has been authenticated under this Indenture. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any Security has been authenticated and delivered hereunder but never issued and sold by the Company, and the Company delivers that Security to the Trustee for cancellation as provided in Section 2.12 together with a written statement (which need not comply with Section 10.05 and need not be accompanied by an Opinion of Counsel) stating that such Security has never been issued and sold by the Company, for all purposes of this Indenture that Security shall be deemed never to have been authenticated and delivered hereunder and shall never be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture.
At any time and from time to time after the execution and delivery of this Indenture, the Company may deliver Securities of any series executed by the Company to the Trustee for authentication, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver those Securities for original issue on a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of those Securities or pursuant to such procedures reasonably acceptable to the Trustee as may be specified from time to time by Company Order. That order shall specify the amount of the Securities to be authenticated, the date on which the original issue of Securities is to be authenticated, the name or names of the initial Holder or Holders and any other terms of the Securities of that series not otherwise determined. If provided for in those procedures, that Company Order may authorize (1) authentication and delivery of Securities of that series for original issue from time to time, with certain terms (including, without limitation, the Maturity date or dates, original issue date or dates and interest rate or rates) that differ from Security to Security and (2) may authorize authentication and delivery pursuant to oral or electronic instructions from the Company or its duly authorized agent, which instructions shall be promptly confirmed in writing.
If the form or terms of the Securities of the series have been established in or pursuant to one or more Board Resolutions as permitted by Section 2.01, in authenticating those Securities, and accepting the additional responsibilities under this Indenture in relation to those Securities, the Trustee shall receive (in addition to the Company Order referred to above and the other documents required by Section 10.04), and (subject to Section 7.01) shall be fully protected in relying on,
(a) an Officer's Certificate setting forth the Board Resolution and, if applicable, an appropriate record of any action taken pursuant thereto, as contemplated by the last paragraph of Section 2.01; and
(b) an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that:
(i) if the form of those Securities has been established by or pursuant to Board Resolution, as is permitted by Section 2.01, that such form has been established in conformity with the provisions of this Indenture;
(ii) if the terms of those Securities have been established by or pursuant to Board Resolution, as is permitted by Section 2.01, that such terms have been established in conformity with the provisions of this Indenture; and
 
(iii) those Securities, when authenticated and delivered by the Trustee and issued by the Company in the manner and subject to any conditions specified in that Opinion of Counsel, will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, except as the enforceability thereof may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent conveyance or other similar laws in effect from time to time affecting the rights of creditors generally, and the application of general principles of equity (regardless of whether that enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
If all the Securities of any series are not to be issued at one time, it shall not be necessary to deliver an Officer's Certificate and Opinion of Counsel at the time of issuance of each such Security, but that Officer's Certificate and Opinion of Counsel shall be delivered at or before the time of issuance of the first Security of the series to be issued.
The Trustee shall not be required to authenticate those Securities if the issuance of those Securities pursuant to this Indenture would affect the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under the Securities and this Indenture or otherwise in a manner not reasonably acceptable to the Trustee.
The Trustee may appoint an authenticating agent acceptable to the Company to authenticate Securities. Unless limited by the terms of that appointment, an authenticating agent may authenticate Securities whenever the Trustee may do so. Each reference in this Indenture to authentication by the Trustee includes authentication by that agent. An authenticating agent has the same rights as an Agent to deal with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company.
Each Security shall be dated the date of its authentication.
Section 2.05 .
Registrar and Paying Agent
The Company shall maintain an office or agency for each series of Securities where Securities of that series may be presented for registration of transfer or exchange ("Registrar") and an office or agency where Securities of that series may be presented for payment ("Paying Agent"). The Registrar shall keep a register of the Securities of that series and of their transfer and exchange. The Company may appoint one or more co-registrars and one or more additional paying agents. The term "Registrar" includes any co-registrar, and the term "Paying Agent" includes any additional paying agent.
The Company shall enter into an appropriate agency agreement with any Registrar or Paying Agent not a party to this Indenture. The agreement shall implement the provisions of this Indenture that relate to that Agent. The Company shall notify the Trustee in writing of the name and address of any Agent not a party to this Indenture. The Company may change any Paying Agent or Registrar without notice to any Holder. If the Company fails to appoint or maintain another entity as Registrar or Paying Agent, the Trustee shall act as such. The Company or any of its Subsidiaries may act as Paying Agent or Registrar.
The Company initially appoints the Trustee as Registrar and Paying Agent.
 
Section 2.06 .
Paying Agent to Hold Money in Trust
With respect to each series of Securities, the Company shall require each Paying Agent other than the Trustee to agree in writing that the Paying Agent will hold in trust for the benefit of Holders of Securities of that series or the Trustee all money held by the Paying Agent for the payment of principal of, premium, if any, or interest on or any Additional Amounts with respect to Securities of that series and will notify the Trustee in writing of any default by the Company in making any such payment. While any such default continues, the Trustee may require a Paying Agent to pay all money held by it to the Trustee and to account for any funds disbursed. The Company at any time may require a Paying Agent to pay all money held by it to the Trustee and to account for any funds disbursed. Upon payment over to the Trustee and upon accounting for any funds disbursed, the Paying Agent (if other than the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company) shall have no further liability for the money. If the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company acts as Paying Agent with respect to a series of Securities, it shall segregate and hold in a separate trust fund for the benefit of the Holders of Securities of that series all money held by it as Paying Agent. Each Paying Agent shall otherwise comply with TIA Section 317(b).
Section 2.07 .
Holder Lists
The Trustee shall preserve in as current a form as is reasonably practicable the most recent list available to it of the names and addresses of Holders of each series of Securities and shall otherwise comply with TIA Section 312(a). If the Trustee is not the Registrar with respect to a series of Securities, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee at least five Business Days before each Interest Payment Date with respect to that series of Securities, and at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing, a list in such form and as of such date as the Trustee may reasonably require of the names and addresses of Holders of the Securities of that series, and the Company shall otherwise comply with TIA Section 312(a).
Section 2.08 .
Transfer and Exchange
Except as set forth in Section 2.16 or as may be provided pursuant to Section 2.01, when Securities of any series are presented to the Registrar with the request to register the transfer of those Securities or to exchange those Securities for an equal principal amount of Securities of the same series of like tenor and of other authorized denominations, the Registrar shall register the transfer or make the exchange as requested if its requirements and the requirements of this Indenture for those transactions are met; provided, however, that the Securities presented or surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange shall be duly endorsed or accompanied by a written instruction of transfer in form reasonably satisfactory to the Registrar duly executed by the Holder thereof or by his attorney, duly authorized in writing, on which instruction the Registrar can rely.
To permit registrations of transfers and exchanges, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate Securities at the Registrar's written request and submission of the
 
Securities (other than Global Securities). No service charge shall be made to a Holder for any registration of transfer or exchange (except as otherwise expressly permitted herein), but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any transfer tax or similar governmental charge payable in connection therewith (other than such transfer tax or similar governmental charge payable on exchanges pursuant to Section 2.11, 3.07 or 9.05). The Trustee shall authenticate Securities in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.04. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Indenture to the contrary, the Company shall not be required to register the transfer or exchange of (a) any Security selected for redemption in whole or in part pursuant to Article III, except the unredeemed portion of any Security being redeemed in part or (b) any Security during the period beginning 15 Business Days before the mailing of notice of any offer to repurchase Securities of the series required pursuant to the terms thereof or of redemption of Securities of a series to be redeemed and ending at the close of business on the date of mailing.
Section 2.09 .
Replacement Securities
If any mutilated Security is surrendered to the Trustee, or if the Holder of a Security claims that the Security has been destroyed, lost or stolen and the Company and the Trustee receive evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of that Security, the Company shall issue and the Trustee shall authenticate upon receipt of a Company Order a replacement Security of the same series if the Trustee's requirements are met. If any such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security has become or is about to become due and payable, the Company in its discretion may, instead of issuing a new Security, pay that Security. The Holder must furnish an indemnity bond that is sufficient in the judgment of the Trustee and the Company to protect the Company, the Trustee, any Agent or any authenticating agent from any loss that any of them may suffer if a Security is replaced. The Company and the Trustee may charge the Holder for their expenses in replacing a Security.
Every replacement Security is an additional contractual obligation of the Company.
Section 2.10 .
Original Issue Discount, Foreign-Currency Denominated and Treasury Securities
In determining whether the Holders of the required principal amount of Securities have concurred in any direction, amendment, supplement, waiver or consent, (a) the principal amount of an Original Issue Discount Security shall be the principal amount thereof that would be due and payable as of the date of that determination upon acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 6.02, (b) the principal amount of a Security denominated in a foreign currency shall be the Dollar equivalent, as determined by the Company by reference to the noon buying rate in The City of New York for cable transfers for that currency, as that rate is certified for customs purposes by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (the "Exchange Rate") on the date of original issuance of that Security, of the principal amount (or, in the case of an Original Issue Discount Security, the Dollar equivalent, as determined by the Company by reference to the Exchange Rate on the date of original issuance of that Security, of the amount determined as provided in (a) above), of that Security and (c) Securities owned by the Company or any other
 
obligor on the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or of that other obligor shall be disregarded, except that, for the purpose of determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying on any such direction, amendment, supplement, waiver or consent, only Securities that the Trustee actually knows are so owned shall be so disregarded.
Section 2.11 .
Temporary Securities
Until definitive Securities of any series are ready for delivery, the Company may prepare and the Trustee shall authenticate temporary Securities. Temporary Securities shall be substantially in the form of definitive Securities, but may have variations that the Company considers appropriate for temporary Securities. Without unreasonable delay, the Company shall prepare and the Trustee shall authenticate upon receipt of a Company Order definitive Securities in exchange for temporary Securities. Until so exchanged, the temporary Securities shall in all respects be entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as definitive Securities.
Section 2.12 .
Cancellation
The Company at any time may deliver Securities to the Trustee for cancellation. The Registrar and the Paying Agent shall forward to the Trustee any Securities surrendered to them for registration of transfer, exchange, payment or redemption or for credit against any sinking fund payment. The Trustee shall cancel all Securities surrendered for registration of transfer, exchange, payment, redemption, replacement or cancellation or for credit against any sinking fund. All canceled Securities held by the Trustee shall be disposed of in accordance with the usual disposal procedures of the Trustee, and the Trustee shall maintain a record of their disposal. The Company may not issue new Securities to replace Securities that have been paid or that have been delivered to the Trustee for cancellation.
Section 2.13 .
Payments; Defaulted Interest
Unless otherwise provided as contemplated by Section 2.01 with respect to the Securities of any series, interest (except defaulted interest) on any Security that is payable, and is punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date shall be paid to the Persons who are registered Holders of that Security at the close of business on the record date next preceding that Interest Payment Date, even if those Securities are canceled after that record date and on or before that Interest Payment Date. Unless otherwise provided with respect to the Securities of any series, the Company will pay the principal of, premium (if any) and interest on and any Additional Amounts with respect to the Securities in Dollars. Those amounts shall be payable at the offices of the Trustee, provided that at the option of the Company, the Company may pay those amounts (1) by wire transfer with respect to Global Securities or (2) by check payable in that money mailed to a Holder's address as it appears in the register of Securities with respect to any Securities.
 
If the Company defaults in a payment of interest on the Securities of any series, it shall pay the defaulted interest in any lawful manner plus, to the extent lawful, interest on the defaulted interest, in each case at the rate provided in the Securities of that series and in Section 4.01. The Company may pay the defaulted interest to the Persons who are Holders on a subsequent special record date. At least 15 days before any special record date selected by the Company, the Company (or the Trustee, in the name of and at the expense of the Company upon 20 days' prior written notice from the Company setting forth that record date and the interest amount to be paid) shall mail to Holders of any such series of Securities a notice that states the special record date, the related payment date and the amount of that interest to be paid.
Section 2.14 .
Persons Deemed Owners
The Company, the Trustee, any Agent and any authenticating agent may treat the Person in whose name any Security is registered as the owner of that Security for the purpose of receiving payments of principal of, premium (if any) or interest on, or any Additional Amounts with respect to that Security and for all other purposes. None of the Company, the Trustee, any Agent or any authenticating agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.
Section 2.15 .
Computation of Interest
Except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 2.01 for Securities of any series, interest on the Securities of each series shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year comprising twelve 30-day months.
Section 2.16 .
Global Securities; Book-Entry Provisions
If Securities of a series are issuable in global form as a Global Security, as contemplated by Section 2.01, then, notwithstanding clause (10) of Section 2.01 and the provisions of Section 2.02, any such Global Security shall represent those of the outstanding Securities of that series as shall be specified therein and may provide that it shall represent the aggregate amount of outstanding Securities from time to time endorsed thereon and that the aggregate amount of outstanding Securities represented thereby may from time to time be reduced or increased, as appropriate, to reflect exchanges or redemptions. Any endorsement of a Global Security to reflect the amount, or any increase or decrease in the amount, of outstanding Securities represented thereby shall be made by the Trustee (i) in such manner and upon instructions given by such Person or Persons as shall be specified in that Security or in a Company Order to be delivered to the Trustee pursuant to Section 2.04 or (ii) otherwise in accordance with written instructions or such other written form of instructions as is customary for the Depositary for that Security, from that Depositary or its nominee on behalf of any Person having a beneficial interest in that Global Security. Subject to the provisions of Section 2.04 and, if applicable, Section 2.11, the Trustee shall deliver and redeliver any Security in permanent global form in the manner and upon instructions given by the Person or Persons specified in that Security or in the applicable Company Order. With respect to the Securities of any series that are represented by a Global
 
Security, the Company authorizes the execution and delivery by the Trustee of a letter of representations or other similar agreement or instrument in the form customarily provided for by the Depositary appointed with respect to that Global Security. Any Global Security may be deposited with the Depositary or its nominee, or may remain in the custody of the Trustee or the Security Custodian therefor pursuant to a FAST Balance Certificate Agreement or similar agreement between the Trustee and the Depositary. If a Company Order has been, or simultaneously is, delivered, any instructions by the Company with respect to endorsement or delivery or redelivery of a Security in global form shall be in writing but need not comply with Section 10.05 and need not be accompanied by an Opinion of Counsel.
Members of, or participants in, the Depositary ("Agent Members") shall have no rights under this Indenture with respect to any Global Security held on their behalf by the Depositary, or the Trustee or the Security Custodian as its custodian, or under that Global Security, and the Depositary may be treated by the Company, the Trustee or the Security Custodian and any agent of the Company, the Trustee or the Security Custodian as the absolute owner of that Global Security for all purposes whatsoever. Notwithstanding the foregoing, (i) the registered holder of a Global Security of any series may grant proxies and otherwise authorize any Person, including Agent Members and Persons that may hold interests through Agent Members, to take any action that a Holder of Securities of that series is entitled to take under this Indenture or the Securities of that series and (ii) nothing herein shall prevent the Company, the Trustee or the Security Custodian or any agent of the Company, the Trustee, or the Security Custodian from giving effect to any written certification, proxy or other authorization furnished by the Depositary or shall impair, as between the Depositary and its Agent Members, the operation of customary practices governing the exercise of the rights of a beneficial owner of any Security.
Notwithstanding Section 2.08, and except as otherwise provided pursuant to Section 2.01, transfers of a Global Security shall be limited to transfers of that Global Security in whole, but not in part, to the Depositary, its successors or their respective nominees. Interests of beneficial owners in a Global Security may be transferred in accordance with the rules and procedures of the Depositary. Securities of any series shall be transferred to all beneficial owners of a Global Security of that series in exchange for their beneficial interests in that Global Security if, and only if, either (1) the Depositary notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for that Global Security or if the Depository ceases to be a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act and, in either case, a successor Depositary is not appointed by the Company within 90 days of that notice, (2) an Event of Default has occurred with respect to that series and is continuing or (3) the Company, in its sole discretion, determines not to have the Securities of that series represented by a Global Security.
In connection with any transfer of a portion of the beneficial interests in a Global Security to beneficial owners pursuant to this Section 2.16, the Registrar shall reflect on its books and records the date and a decrease in the principal amount of the Global Security in an amount equal to the principal amount of the beneficial interest in the Global Security to be transferred, and the Company shall execute, and the Trustee on receipt of a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of Securities shall authenticate and deliver, one or more Securities of the same series of like tenor and amount.
In connection with the transfer of all the beneficial interests in a Global Security of any series to beneficial owners pursuant to this Section 2.16, the Global Security shall be deemed to
 
be surrendered to the Trustee for cancellation, and the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, to each beneficial owner identified by the Depositary in exchange for its beneficial interest in the Global Security, an equal aggregate principal amount of Securities of that series of authorized denominations.
Neither the Company nor the Trustee will have any responsibility or liability for any aspect of the records relating to, or payments made on account of, Securities by the Depositary, or for maintaining, supervising or reviewing any records of the Depositary relating to those Securities. Neither the Company nor the Trustee shall be liable for any delay by the related Global Security Holder or the Depositary in identifying the beneficial owners, and each such Person may conclusively rely on, and shall be protected in relying on, instructions from that Global Security Holder or the Depositary for all purposes (including with respect to the registration and delivery, and the respective principal amounts, of the Securities to be issued).
The provisions of the last sentence of the third paragraph of Section 2.04 shall apply to any Global Security if that Global Security was never issued and sold by the Company and the Company delivers to the Trustee the Global Security together with written instructions (which need not comply with Section 10.05 and need not be accompanied by an Opinion of Counsel) with regard to the cancellation or reduction in the principal amount of Securities represented thereby, together with the written statement contemplated by the last sentence of the third paragraph of Section 2.04.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Sections 2.03 and 2.14, unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 2.01 with respect to Securities of any series, payment of principal of and premium (if any) and interest on and any Additional Amounts with respect to any Global Security shall be made to the Person or Persons specified therein.
Section 2.17 .
CUSIP Numbers
The Company in issuing the Securities may use "CUSIP" numbers (if then generally in use), and, if so, the Trustee shall use "CUSIP" numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders; that the Trustee shall have no liability for any defect in the "CUSIP" numbers as they appear on the any Security, notice or elsewhere, and, that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Securities or as contained in any notice of a redemption and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Securities, and any such redemption shall not be affected by any defect in or omission of such numbers. The Company will promptly notify the Trustee in writing of any change in the "CUSIP" numbers.
provided
provided further
 
Section 3.01 .
Applicability of Article
Securities of any series that are redeemable before their Stated Maturity shall be redeemable in accordance with their terms and (except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 2.01 for Securities of any series) in accordance with this Article III.
Section 3.02 .
Notice to the Trustee
If the Company elects to redeem Securities of any series pursuant to this Indenture, it shall notify the Trustee of the Redemption Date and principal amount of Securities of that series to be redeemed. The Company shall so notify the Trustee at least 40 days before the Redemption Date (unless a shorter notice shall be satisfactory to the Trustee) by delivering to the Trustee an Officer's Certificate stating that the redemption will comply with the provisions of this Indenture and of the Securities of that series. Any such notice may be canceled at any time prior to the mailing of that notice of redemption to any Holder of the Securities of that series and shall thereupon be void and of no effect.
Section 3.03 .
Selection of Securities To Be Redeemed
If less than all the Securities of any series are to be redeemed (unless all of the Securities of that series of a specified tenor are to be redeemed), the particular Securities to be redeemed shall be selected at least 30 and not more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date by the Trustee, from the outstanding Securities of that series (and tenor) not previously called for redemption, by lot or by another method as the Trustee shall deem fair and appropriate in accordance with DTC procedures. That redemption may provide for the selection for redemption of portions (equal to the minimum authorized denomination for Securities of that series or any integral multiple thereof) of the principal amount of Securities of that series of a denomination larger than the minimum authorized denomination for Securities of that series or of the principal amount of Global Securities of that series.
The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company and the Registrar in writing of the Securities selected for redemption and, in the case of any Securities selected for partial redemption, the principal amount thereof to be redeemed.
For purposes of this Indenture, unless the context otherwise requires, all provisions relating to redemption of Securities of any series shall relate, in the case of any of the Securities redeemed or to be redeemed only in part, to the portion of the principal amount thereof which has been or is to be redeemed.
 
Section 3.04 .
Notice of Redemption
Notice of redemption shall be given by first-class mail (in the case of notes held in book entry form, by electronic transmission), postage prepaid, mailed not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date, to each Holder of Securities of a series to be redeemed, at the address of that Holder appearing in the register of Securities for that series maintained by the Registrar.
All notices of redemption shall identify the Securities to be redeemed and shall state:
(1) the Redemption Date;
(2) the Redemption Price;
(3) that, unless the Company defaults in making the payment of the Redemption Price, interest on Securities called for redemption ceases to accrue on and after the Redemption Date, and the only remaining right of the Holders of those Securities is to receive payment of the Redemption Price on surrender to the Paying Agent of the Securities redeemed;
(4) if any Security is to be redeemed in part, the portion of the principal amount thereof to be redeemed and that on and after the Redemption Date, on surrender for cancellation of that Security to the Paying Agent, a new Security or Securities in the aggregate principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion thereof will be issued without charge to the Holder;
(5) that Securities called for redemption must be surrendered to the Paying Agent to collect the Redemption Price and the name and address of the Paying Agent;
(6) that the redemption is for a sinking or analogous fund, if that is the case; and
(7) the CUSIP number, if any, relating to those Securities.
Notice of redemption of Securities to be redeemed at the election of the Company shall be given by the Company or, at the Company's written request, made not less than 45 days prior to the Redemption Date, by the Trustee in the name and at the expense of the Company.
Section 3.05 .
Effect of Notice of Redemption
Once notice of redemption is mailed, Securities called for redemption become due and payable on the Redemption Date and at the Redemption Price. Upon surrender to the Paying Agent, those Securities called for redemption shall be paid at the Redemption Price, but interest installments whose maturity is on or prior to that Redemption Date will be payable on the relevant Interest Payment Dates to the Holders of record at the close of business on the relevant record dates specified pursuant to Section 2.01.
 
Section 3.06 .
Deposit of Redemption Price
No later than 11:00 am New York City time on or prior to any Redemption Date, the Company shall deposit with the Trustee or the Paying Agent (or, if the Company is acting as its own Paying Agent, segregate and hold in trust as provided in Section 2.06) an amount of money in same day funds sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of, and (except if the Redemption Date shall be an Interest Payment Date) accrued interest on and any Additional Amounts with respect to, the Securities or portions thereof which are to be redeemed on that date, other than Securities or portions thereof called for redemption on that date which have been delivered by the Company to the Trustee for cancellation.
If the Company complies with the preceding paragraph, then, unless the Company defaults in the payment of that Redemption Price, interest on the Securities to be redeemed will cease to accrue on and after the applicable Redemption Date, whether or not those Securities are presented for payment, and the Holders of those Securities shall have no further rights with respect to those Securities except for the right to receive the Redemption Price on surrender of those Securities. If any Security called for redemption shall not be so paid on surrender thereof for redemption, the principal of and premium, if any, any Additional Amounts, and, to the extent lawful, accrued interest thereon shall, until paid, bear interest from the Redemption Date at the rate specified pursuant to Section 2.01 or provided in the Securities or, in the case of Original Issue Discount Securities, their initial yield to maturity.
Section 3.07 .
Securities Redeemed or Purchased in Part
Upon surrender to the Paying Agent of a Security to be redeemed in part, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate upon receipt of a Company Order and deliver to the Holder of that Security without service charge a new Security or Securities, of the same series and of any authorized denomination as requested by that Holder in aggregate principal amount equal to, and in exchange for, the unredeemed portion of the principal of the Security so surrendered that is not redeemed.
Section 3.08 .
Purchase of Securities
Unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 2.01, the Company and any Affiliate of the Company may at any time purchase or otherwise acquire Securities in the open market or by private agreement. Any such acquisition shall not operate as or be deemed for any purpose to be a redemption of the indebtedness represented by those Securities. Any Securities purchased or acquired by the Company may be delivered to the Trustee for cancellation and, on that cancellation, the indebtedness represented thereby shall be deemed to be satisfied. Section 2.12 shall apply to all Securities so delivered.
 
Section 3.09 .
Mandatory and Optional Sinking Funds
The minimum amount of any sinking fund payment provided for by the terms of Securities of any series is herein referred to as a "Mandatory Sinking Fund Payment," and any payment in excess of the minimum amount provided for by the terms of Securities of any series is herein referred to as an "Optional Sinking Fund Payment." Unless otherwise provided by the terms of Securities of any series, the cash amount of any sinking fund payment may be subject to reduction as provided in Section 3.10. Each sinking fund payment shall be applied to the redemption of Securities of any series as provided for by the terms of Securities of that series and by this Article III.
Section 3.10 .
Satisfaction of Sinking Fund Payments with Securities
The Company may deliver outstanding Securities of a series (other than any previously called for redemption) and may apply as a credit Securities of a series that have been redeemed either at the election of the Company pursuant to the terms of those Securities or through the application of permitted Optional Sinking Fund Payments pursuant to the terms of those Securities, in each case in satisfaction of all or any part of any sinking fund payment with respect to the Securities of that series required to be made pursuant to the terms of that series of Securities; provided that those Securities have not been previously so credited. Those Securities shall be received and credited for that purpose by the Trustee at the Redemption Price specified in those Securities for redemption through operation of the sinking fund, and the amount of that sinking fund payment shall be reduced accordingly.
Section 3.11 .
Redemption of Securities for Sinking Fund
Not less than 45 days prior (unless a shorter period shall be satisfactory to the Trustee) to each sinking fund payment date for any series of Securities, the Company will deliver to the Trustee an Officer's Certificate of the Company specifying the amount of the next ensuing sinking fund payment for that series pursuant to the terms of that series, the portion thereof, if any, that is to be satisfied by payment of cash and the portion thereof, if any, that is to be satisfied by delivery of or by crediting Securities of that series pursuant to Section 3.10 and will also deliver to the Trustee any Securities to be so delivered. Failure of the Company to timely deliver that Officer's Certificate and Securities specified in this paragraph, if any, shall not constitute a default but shall constitute the election of the Company (i) that the Mandatory Sinking Fund Payment for that series due on the next succeeding sinking fund payment date shall be paid entirely in cash without the option to deliver or credit Securities of that series in respect thereof and (ii) that the Company will make no Optional Sinking Fund Payment with respect to that series as provided in this Section.
If the sinking fund payment or payments (mandatory or optional or both) to be made in cash on the next succeeding sinking fund payment date plus any unused balance of any preceding sinking fund payments made in cash shall exceed $100,000 (or the Dollar equivalent
 
thereof based on the applicable Exchange Rate on the date of original issue of the applicable Securities) or a lesser sum if the Company shall so request with respect to the Securities of any particular series, that cash shall be applied on the next succeeding sinking fund payment date to the redemption of Securities of that series at the sinking fund redemption price together with accrued interest to the date fixed for redemption. If that amount shall be $100,000 (or the Dollar equivalent thereof as aforesaid) or less and the Company makes no such request, then it shall be carried over until a sum in excess of $100,000 (or the Dollar equivalent thereof as aforesaid) is available. Not less than 30 days before each such sinking fund payment date, the Trustee shall select the Securities to be redeemed on that sinking fund payment date in the manner specified in Section 3.03 and cause notice of the redemption thereof to be given in the name of and at the expense of the Company in the manner provided in Section 3.04. That notice having been duly given, the redemption of those Securities shall be made on the terms and in the manner stated in Sections 3.05, 3.06 and 3.07.
Section 4.01 .
Payment of Securities
The Company shall pay no later than 11:00 am New York City time, the principal of, premium (if any) and interest on and any Additional Amounts with respect to the Securities of each series on the dates and in the manner provided in the Securities of that series and in this Indenture. Principal, premium, interest and any Additional Amounts shall be considered paid on the date due if the Paying Agent, other than the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company, holds on that date money deposited by the Company designated for and sufficient to pay all principal, premium (if any), interest and any Additional Amounts then due.
The Company shall pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue principal of and premium (if any) on Securities of any series, at a rate equal to the then applicable interest rate on the Securities of that series to the extent lawful; and it shall pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue installments of interest on and any overdue payments of Additional Amounts with respect to Securities of that series (without regard to any applicable grace period) at the same rate to the extent lawful.
Section 4.02 .
Maintenance of Office or Agency
The Company will maintain in each Place of Payment for any series of Securities an office or agency (which may be an office of the Trustee, the Registrar or the Paying Agent) where Securities of that series may be presented for registration of transfer or exchange, where Securities of that series may be presented for payment and where notices and demands to or on the Company in respect of the Securities of that series and this Indenture may be served. Unless otherwise designated by the Company by written notice to the Trustee, that office or agency shall be the office of the Trustee in Minneapolis, Minnesota, which on the date hereof is located at 625 Marquette Avenue, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55402. The Company will give prompt written
 
notice to the Trustee of the location, and any change in the location, of that office or agency. If at any time the Company shall fail to maintain any such required office or agency or shall fail to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, those presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee.
The Company may also from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies where the Securities of one or more series may be presented or surrendered for any or all those purposes and may from time to time rescind those designations; provided, however, that no such designation or rescission shall in any manner relieve the Company of its obligation to maintain an office or agency in each Place of Payment for Securities of any series for those purposes. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of any such designation or rescission and of any change in the location of any such other office or agency.
Section 4.03 .
SEC Reports; Financial Statements
(a) The Company shall file with the Trustee, within 15 days after it files the same with the SEC, copies of the annual reports and the information, documents and other reports (or copies of those portions of any of the foregoing as the SEC may by rules and regulations prescribe) that the Company is required to file with the SEC pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. The Company shall also comply with the provisions of TIA Section 314(a). Delivery of such reports, information and documents to the Trustee is for informational purposes only and the Trustee's receipt of such shall not constitute constructive notice of any information contained therein or determinable from information contained therein, including the Company's compliance with any of its covenants hereunder (as to which the Trustee is entitled to rely exclusively on Officer's Certificates).
(b) If the Company is not subject to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, the Company shall furnish to all Holders of Securities and prospective purchasers of Securities designated by the Holders of Securities, promptly on their request, the information required to be delivered pursuant to Rule 144A(d)(4) promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
(c) The availability of the foregoing materials on the SEC's website or on a freely accessible page on the Company's website shall be deemed to satisfy the foregoing delivery obligations provided, however, that the Trustee shall have no obligation whatsoever to determine whether or not such materials have been posted on the website.
Section 4.04 .
Compliance Certificate
(a) The Company shall deliver to the Trustee, within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company, a statement signed by an Officer of the Company, which need not constitute an Officer's Certificate, complying with TIA Section 314(a)(4) and stating that, in the course of performance by the signing Officer of the Company of his or her duties as such Officer of the Company, he or she would normally obtain knowledge of the keeping, observing, performing and fulfilling by the Company of its obligations under this Indenture, and further
 
stating that, to the best of his or her knowledge, the Company has kept, observed, performed and fulfilled each and every covenant contained in this Indenture and is not in default in the performance or observance of any of the terms, provisions and conditions hereof (or, if a Default or Event of Default shall have occurred, describing all such Defaults or Events of Default of which that Officer may have knowledge and what action the Company is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto).
(b) The Company shall, so long as Securities of any series are outstanding, deliver to the Trustee, promptly on any Officer of the Company becoming aware of any Default or Event of Default under this Indenture, an Officer's Certificate specifying that Default or Event of Default and what action the Company is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto.
Section 4.05 .
Existence
Subject to Article V hereof, the Company shall do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect its existence and all rights (charter and statutory) and franchises of the Company; that the Company shall not be required to preserve any such right or franchise if the Board of Directors of the Company shall determine that the preservation thereof is no longer desirable in the conduct of the business of the Company and that the loss thereof is not disadvantageous in any material respect to the Holders.
provided
Section 4.06 .
Waiver of Stay, Extension or Usury Laws
The Company covenants (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) that it will not at any time insist on, or plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any stay or extension law or any usury law or other law that would prohibit or forgive the Company from paying all or any portion of the principal of or interest on the Securities as contemplated herein, wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, or which may affect the covenants or the performance of this Indenture; and (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) the Company hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such law, and covenants that it will not hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Trustee, but will suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law had been enacted.
Section 4.07 .
Additional Amounts
If the Securities of a series expressly provide for the payment of Additional Amounts, the Company will pay to the Holder of any Security of that series Additional Amounts as expressly provided therein. Whenever in this Indenture there is mentioned, in any context, the payment of the principal of or any premium or interest on, or in respect of, any Security of any series or the net proceeds received from the sale or exchange of any Security of any series, that mention shall be deemed to include mention of the payment of Additional Amounts provided for in this Section 4.07 to the extent that, in that context, Additional Amounts are, were or would be
 
payable in respect thereof pursuant to the provisions of this Section 4.07, and express mention of the payment of Additional Amounts (if applicable) in any provisions hereof shall not be construed as excluding Additional Amounts in those provisions hereof where that express mention is not made.
Unless otherwise provided pursuant to Section 2.01 with respect to Securities of any series, if the Securities of a series provide for the payment of Additional Amounts, at least ten days prior to the first Interest Payment Date with respect to that series of Securities (or if the Securities of that series will not bear interest prior to Maturity, the first day on which a payment of principal and any premium is made), and at least ten days prior to each date of payment of principal and any premium or interest if there has been any change with respect to the matters set forth in the below-mentioned Officer's Certificate, the Company shall furnish the Trustee and the Company's principal Paying Agent or Paying Agents, if other than the Trustee, with an Officer's Certificate instructing the Trustee and such Paying Agent or Paying Agents whether that payment of principal of and any premium or interest on the Securities of that series shall be made to Holders of Securities of that series who are United States Aliens without withholding for or on account of any tax, assessment or other governmental charge described in the Securities of that series. If any such withholding shall be required, then that Officer's Certificate shall specify by country the amount, if any, required to be withheld on those payments to those Holders of Securities, and the Company will pay to that Paying Agent the Additional Amounts required by this Section. The Company covenants to indemnify the Trustee and any Paying Agent for and to hold them harmless against any loss, liability or expense reasonably incurred without negligence or bad faith on their part arising out of or in connection with actions taken or omitted by any of them in reliance on any Officer's Certificate furnished pursuant to this Section 4.07. The Trustee shall not at any time be under any duty or responsibility to any Holder to determine the Additional Amounts, or with respect to the nature, extent or calculation of the Additional Amounts owed, or with respect to the method employed in such calculation of the Additional Amounts.
Section 4.08 .
Limitation on Liens
Except as hereinafter in this Section 4.08 expressly permitted and as permitted by Section 5.01, so long as any of the Securities remain Outstanding, the Company will not at any time directly or indirectly create, assume or suffer to exist, and will not cause, suffer or permit any Subsidiary to create, assume or suffer to exist, otherwise than in favor of the Company or a Subsidiary, any mortgage, pledge, lien, encumbrance of or upon or security interest (collectively, "Liens") upon any of its properties or assets, real, personal or mixed, whether owned at the date of this Indenture or thereafter acquired, or of or upon, any income or profits therefrom, without making effective provision, and the Company covenants that in any such case it will make or cause to be made effective provision, whereby the Securities then or thereafter Outstanding shall be secured by such Liens equally and ratably with any and all other obligations and indebtedness thereby secured, so long as any such other obligations or indebtedness shall be so secured.
Nothing in this Section 4.08 shall be construed to prevent the Company or any Subsidiary from creating, assuming or suffering to exist Liens of the following character, to all of which the provisions of the first paragraph of this Section 4.08 shall not be applicable:
(a) Liens existing as of the date of this Indenture;
 
(b) any purchase money mortgage or Lien created to secure all or part of the purchase price of any property (or to secure a loan made to the Company or any Subsidiary to enable the Company or such Subsidiary to acquire the property described in such mortgage or in any applicable security agreement); that such Lien shall extend only to the property so acquired, improvements thereon, replacements thereof and the income or profits therefrom;
provided
(c) Liens on any property at the time of the acquisition thereof, whether or not assumed by the Company or a Subsidiary; that such Lien shall extend only to the property so acquired, improvements thereon, replacements thereof and the income or profits therefrom;
provided
(d) Liens on any property or any contract for the sale of any product or service, or any rights thereunder or any proceeds therefrom, acquired or constructed by the Company or a Subsidiary and created within one year after the later of (i) such acquisition or the completion of such construction, or (ii) commencement of operation of such property; that such Lien shall extend only to the property so acquired or constructed, improvements thereon, replacements thereof and the income or profits therefrom;
provided
(e) Liens on the properties or assets, real, personal or mixed, of a Subsidiary, or of or upon or in any income or profits therefrom, which is outstanding at the time such Subsidiary becomes a Subsidiary;
(f) Liens created or assumed by the Company or a Subsidiary on coal, geothermal, oil, natural gas, inert gas, other hydrocarbon or mineral properties owned or leased by the Company or a Subsidiary to secure loans to the Company or a Subsidiary for the purpose of developing such properties;
(g) Liens on any investment of the Company or a Subsidiary in any Person other than a Subsidiary or any security representing any investment of the Company or a Subsidiary; for the purposes of this clause (g), "investment" means any equity investment in any Person, any obligation of any Person for money borrowed or for the deferred purchase price of property which is owed to the Company or a Subsidiary, as the case may be, and any amount advanced to any person by the Company or any Subsidiary, excluding, however, current accounts payable other than for cash advances;
(h) any Lien not otherwise permitted by this Section 4.08 if, after giving effect to the creation or assumption of the proposed mortgage, pledge, Lien, encumbrance or security interest the sum of (i) all indebtedness of the Company and its Subsidiaries secured by Liens not otherwise permitted by this Section 4.08, and (ii) to the extent not included in (i) above, all Attributable Debt of the Company and its Subsidiaries does not exceed 10% of Consolidated Capitalization;
(i) any refunding or extension of maturity, in whole or in part, of any obligation or indebtedness secured by any Lien created, existing or assumed in accordance with the provisions of clauses (a) through (h) above, inclusive, that the principal amount of the obligation or indebtedness secured by such refunding or extended Liens shall not exceed the principal amount of the obligation or indebtedness then outstanding at the time of such refunding
provided
 
or extension, together with related financing costs, and that such refunding or extended Liens shall be limited in lien to the same property that secured the obligation or indebtedness refunded or extended, or property substituted therefor and property acquired after the date thereof and subject to the Lien thereof, in accordance with the provisions of such refunding or extension;
(j) Liens on any office equipment or data processing equipment (including, without limitation, computer and computer peripheral equipment) or any motor vehicles, tractors or trailers;
(k) Liens of or upon or in current assets of the Company or a Subsidiary, determined in accordance with GAAP, created or assumed to secure indebtedness incurred in the ordinary course of business;
(l) mechanics' or materialmen's liens; any Lien or charge arising by reason of pledges or deposits to secure payment of or to permit participation in workmen's compensation, unemployment insurance, old age pensions or other Social Security or other insurance or to permit self-insurance; good faith deposits in connection with tenders or leases of real estate, bids or contracts or in connection with the financing of the acquisition or construction of property to be used in the business of the Company or a Subsidiary; deposits to secure public or statutory obligations; deposits to secure or in lieu of surety, stay or appeal bonds; deposits as security for the payment of taxes or assessments or other similar charges; judgment liens against the Company or any Subsidiary thereof in an aggregate amount not in excess of $10,000,000, or any such judgment lien so long as the finality of such judgment is being contested and execution thereon is stayed and which has been appealed and secured, if necessary, by the filing of an appeal bond; and Liens for taxes or assessments for the current year or which are not due or which remain payable without penalty or which are being contested in good faith and against which an adequate reserve has been established;
(m) any Lien arising by reason of deposits with or the giving of any form of security to any governmental agency or any body created or approved by law or governmental regulation for any purpose at any time in connection with the financing of the acquisition or construction of property to be used in the business of the Company or a Subsidiary, or as required by law or governmental regulation as a condition to the transaction of any business or the exercise of any privilege or license, or to permit the maintenance of self-insurance or participation in any fund for liability on any insurance risks or in connection with workmen's compensation, unemployment insurance, old age pensions or other social security or to share in the privileges or benefits required for companies participating in such arrangements;
(n) Liens which are payable, both with respect to principal and interest, solely out of the proceeds of natural gas, oil, coal, geothermal resources, inert gas, other hydrocarbons or minerals to be produced from the property subject thereto and to be sold or delivered by the Company or a Subsidiary;
(o) Liens to secure indebtedness incurred to finance advances made by the Company or any Subsidiary to any third party for the purpose of financing oil, natural gas, hydrocarbon, inert gas or other mineral exploration or development; that such Liens shall extend only to the receivables of the Company or such Subsidiary in respect of such advances;
provided
 
(p) any rights reserved in others to take or reserve any part of the natural gas, oil, coal, geothermal resources, inert gas, other hydrocarbons or mineral produced at any time on any property of the Company or a Subsidiary;
(q) any rights reserved to or vested in, or any obligations or duties to, any person, firm, corporation or governmental authority by the terms of any franchise, grant, lease, license, easement or permit or by any provision of law with respect to any property of the Company or a Subsidiary;
(r) leases (whether pursuant to Sale and Leaseback Transactions or otherwise) now or hereafter existing and any renewals or extensions thereof;
(s) Liens upon the underlying interests in property covered by any lease, contract, easement or right-of-way existing at the time of the acquisition thereof; easements or similar encumbrances, the existence of which does not materially impair the use of the property subject thereto for the purposes for which it was acquired; Liens upon rights-of-way for pipeline or distribution plant purposes and undetermined Liens and charges incidental to construction or maintenance; or defects and irregularities in the titles to any property (including right-of-way) which are not material to the business of the Company and its Subsidiaries considered as a whole;
(t) the lien reserved in leases for rent and for compliance with the terms of the lease in the case of leasehold estates;
(u) zoning laws and ordinances; and
(v) Liens which secure indebtedness of a Subsidiary to the Company or another Subsidiary.
If at any time the Company or any Subsidiary shall create or assume any Lien to which the covenant in the first paragraph of this Section 4.08 is applicable, the Company will promptly deliver to the Trustee an Officer's Certificate, stating that the covenant in the first paragraph of this Section 4.08 has been complied with, and an Opinion of Counsel, stating that in his opinion such covenant has been complied with and that any instruments executed by the Company or any Subsidiary in the performance of such covenant complied with the requirements thereof.
In the event that the Company or any Subsidiary shall hereafter secure the Securities equally and ratably with any other obligation or indebtedness pursuant to the provisions of this Section 4.08, the Trustee is hereby authorized to enter into an indenture supplemental hereto and to take such action, if any, as it may deem advisable to enable it to enforce effectively the rights of the Holders of the Securities so secured, equally and ratably with such other obligation or indebtedness.
 
The Trustee may accept an Officer's Certificate and Opinion of Counsel as conclusive evidence that any such supplemental indenture or steps taken to secure the Securities equally and ratably comply with the provisions of this Section 4.08.
Section 4.09 .
Waiver of Covenant
The Company may omit in any particular instance to comply with any term, provision or condition set forth in Sections 4.08 and 5.01, if before the time for such compliance the Holders upon written notice to the Trustee of (i) a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities or (ii) in case less than all of the several series of Securities then Outstanding are affected by the omission, at least a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of each series so affected voting as a single class shall, either waive such compliance in such instance or generally waive compliance with such term, provision or condition, but no such waiver shall extend to or affect such term, provision or condition except to the extent so expressly waived, and, until such waiver shall become effective, the obligations of the Company and the duties of the Trustee in respect of any such term, provision or condition shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 4.10 .
Calculation of Original Issue Discount
The Company shall file with the Trustee promptly at the end of each calendar year (i) a written notice specifying the amount of original issue discount (including daily rates and accrual periods) accrued on Outstanding Securities as of the end of such year and (ii) such other specific information relating to such original issue discount as may then be relevant under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
Section 5.01 .
Limitations on Mergers, Consolidations and Other Transactions
The Company shall not, in any transaction or series of related transactions, consolidate with any other Person into, or merge into, any other Person, or sell, lease, convey, transfer or otherwise dispose of its assets substantially as an entirety to any Person, unless:
(1) the Person formed by that consolidation or into which the Company is merged, or to which that sale, lease, conveyance, transfer or other disposition shall be made (collectively, the "Successor"), expressly assumes by supplemental indenture the due and punctual payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on and Additional Amounts with respect to all the Securities and the performance of the Company's covenants and obligations under this Indenture and the Securities;
 
(2) immediately after giving effect to that transaction or series of related transactions, no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing; and
(3) the Company delivers to the Trustee an Officer's Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that the transaction and that supplemental indenture comply with this Indenture.
Section 5.02 .
Successor Person Substituted
Upon any consolidation or merger of the Company or any sale, lease, conveyance, transfer or other disposition of the assets of the Company substantially as an entirety in accordance with Section 5.01, any Successor formed by that consolidation or into or with which the Company is merged or to which that sale, lease, conveyance, transfer or other disposition is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of the Company under this Indenture and the Securities with the same effect as if that Successor had been named as the Company herein and the predecessor Company, in the case of a sale, conveyance, transfer or other disposition, shall be released from all obligations under this Indenture and the Securities.
Section 6.01 .
Events of Default
Unless either inapplicable to a particular series or specifically deleted or modified in or pursuant to the supplemental indenture or Board Resolution establishing that series of Securities or in the form of Security for that series, an "Event of Default," wherever used herein with respect to Securities of any series, occurs if:
(1) the Company defaults in the payment of interest on or any Additional Amounts with respect to any Security of that series when the same becomes due and payable and that default continues for a period of 30 days;
(2) the Company defaults in the payment of (A) the principal of any Security of that series at its Maturity or (B) premium (if any) on any Security of that series when the same becomes due and payable;
(3) the Company defaults in the deposit of any sinking fund payment, when and as due by the terms of a Security of that series, and that default continues for a period of 30 days;
(4) the Company fails to comply with any of its other covenants or agreements in, or provisions of, the Securities of that series or this Indenture (other than
 
an agreement, covenant or provision that has expressly been included in this Indenture solely for the benefit of one or more series of Securities other than that series) which shall not have been remedied within the specified period after written notice, as specified in the last paragraph of this Section 6.01;
(5) the Company pursuant to or within the meaning of any Bankruptcy Law:
(A) commences a voluntary case,
(B) consents to the entry of an order for relief against it in an involuntary case,
(C) consents to the appointment of a Bankruptcy Custodian of it or for all or substantially all of its property, or
(D) makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors;
(6) a court of competent jurisdiction enters an order or decree under any Bankruptcy Law that remains unstayed and in effect for 90 days and that:
(A) is for relief against the Company as debtor in an involuntary case,
(B) appoints a Bankruptcy Custodian of the Company or a Bankruptcy Custodian for all or substantially all of the property of the Company, or
(C) orders the liquidation of the Company;
(7) any event of default as defined in any mortgage, indenture or instrument under which there may be issued, or by which there may be secured or evidenced, any indebtedness of the Company for money borrowed, whether such indebtedness now exists or shall hereafter be created, shall happen and shall result in such indebtedness in principal amount in excess of $10,000,000 becoming or being declared due and payable prior to the date on which it would otherwise become due and payable, and such acceleration shall not be rescinded or annulled, or such indebtedness shall not have been discharged, within a period of 30 days after there shall have been given, by registered or certified mail, to the Company by the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee by the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series, a written notice specifying such event of default and requiring the Company to cause such acceleration to be rescinded or annulled or to cause such indebtedness to be discharged stating that such notice is a "Notice of Default" hereunder; or
(8) any other Event of Default provided with respect to Securities of that series occurs.
The term "Bankruptcy Custodian" means any receiver, trustee, assignee, liquidator or similar official under any Bankruptcy Law.
The Trustee shall not be deemed to know or have notice of a Default unless a Trust Officer at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee receives written notice at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee of that Default with specific reference to that Default.
 
When a Default is cured, it ceases.
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 6.01, if the principal of, premium (if any) or interest on or Additional Amounts with respect to any Security is payable in a currency or currencies (including a composite currency) other than Dollars and such currency or currencies are not available to the Company for making payment thereof due to the imposition of exchange controls or other circumstances beyond the control of the Company (a "Conversion Event"), the Company will be entitled to satisfy its obligations to Holders of the Securities by making that payment in Dollars in an amount equal to the Dollar equivalent of the amount payable in such other currency, as determined by the Company by reference to the Exchange Rate on the date of that payment, or, if that rate is not then available, on the basis of the most recently available Exchange Rate. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 6.01, any payment made under such circumstances in Dollars where the required payment is in a currency other than Dollars will not constitute an Event of Default under this Indenture.
Promptly after the occurrence of a Conversion Event, the Company shall give written notice thereof to the Trustee; and the Trustee, promptly after receipt of that notice, shall give notice thereof in the manner provided in Section 10.02 to the Holders. Promptly after the making of any payment in Dollars as a result of a Conversion Event, the Company shall give notice in the manner provided in Section 10.02 to the Holders, setting forth the applicable Exchange Rate and describing the calculation of those payments.
A Default under clause (4) or (7) of this Section 6.01 is not an Event of Default until the Trustee notifies the Company, or the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the then outstanding Securities of the series affected by that Default (or, in the case of a Default under clause (4) of this Section 6.01, if outstanding Securities of other series are affected by that Default, then at least 25% in principal amount of the then outstanding Securities so affected) notify the Company and the Trustee, of the Default, and the Company fails to cure the Default within 90 days after receipt of the notice. The notice must specify the Default, demand that it be remedied and state that the notice is a "Notice of Default."
Section 6.02 .
Acceleration
If an Event of Default with respect to any Securities of any series at the time outstanding (other than an Event of Default specified in clause (5) or (6) of Section 6.01 hereof) occurs and is continuing, the Trustee by notice to the Company, or the Holders of at least 33 1/3% in principal amount of the then outstanding Securities of the series affected by that default (or, in the case of an Event of Default described in clause (4) of Section 6.01, if outstanding Securities of other series are affected by that Default, then at least 33 1/3% in principal amount of the then outstanding Securities so affected voting as one class) by written notice to the Company and the Trustee, may declare the principal of (or, if any of those Securities are Original Issue Discount Securities, that portion of the principal amount as may be specified in the terms of that series) and all accrued and unpaid interest on all then Outstanding Securities of that series or of all series, as the case may be, to be due and payable. Upon any such declaration, the amounts due and payable on those Securities shall be due and payable immediately. If an Event of Default specified in clause (5) or (6) of Section 6.01 hereof occurs, those amounts shall ipso facto
 
become and be immediately due and payable without any declaration, notice or other act on the part of the Trustee or any Holder. The Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then Outstanding Securities of the series affected by that default or all series, as the case may be, by written notice to the Trustee may rescind an acceleration and its consequences (other than nonpayment of principal of or premium or interest on or any Additional Amounts with respect to the Securities) if the rescission would not conflict with any judgment or decree and if all existing Events of Default with respect to Securities of that series (or of all series, as the case may be) have been cured or waived, except nonpayment of principal, premium, interest or any Additional Amounts that has become due solely because of the acceleration.
Section 6.03 .
Other Remedies
If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of any series occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may pursue any available remedy to collect the payment of principal of, or premium, if any, or interest on the Securities of that series or to enforce the performance of any provision of the Securities of that series or this Indenture.
The Trustee may maintain a proceeding with respect to Securities of any series even if it does not possess any of the Securities of that series or does not produce any of them in the proceeding. A delay or omission by the Trustee or any Holder in exercising any right or remedy accruing on an Event of Default shall not impair the right or remedy or constitute a waiver of or acquiescence in the Event of Default. All remedies are cumulative to the extent permitted by law.
Section 6.04 .
Waiver of Defaults
Subject to Sections 6.07 and 9.02, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then Outstanding Securities of any series or of all series (acting as one class) by written notice to the Trustee may waive an existing or past Default or Event of Default with respect to that series or all series, as the case may be, and its consequences (including waivers obtained in connection with a tender offer or exchange offer for Securities of that series or all series or a solicitation of consents in respect of Securities of that series or all series, provided that in each case that offer or solicitation is made to all Holders of then outstanding Securities of that series or all series (but the terms of that offer or solicitation may vary from series to series)), except (1) a continuing Default or Event of Default in the payment of the principal of, or premium, if any, or interest on or any Additional Amounts with respect to any Security or (2) a continued Default in respect of a provision that under Section 9.02 cannot be amended or supplemented without the consent of each Holder affected. Upon any such waiver, that Default shall cease to exist, and any Event of Default arising therefrom shall be deemed to have been cured for every purpose of this Indenture; but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other Default or impair any right consequent thereon.
 
Section 6.05 .
Control by Majority
With respect to Securities of any series, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Securities of that series may direct in writing the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee or exercising any trust or power conferred on it relating to or arising under an Event of Default described in clause (1), (2), (3), (4) or (7) of Section 6.01, and with respect to all Securities, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of all the then Outstanding Securities affected may direct in writing the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee or exercising any trust or power conferred on it not relating to or arising under such an Event of Default. However, the Trustee may refuse to follow any direction that conflicts with applicable law or this Indenture, that the Trustee determines may be unduly prejudicial to the rights of other Holders, or that may involve the Trustee in personal liability; provided, however, that the Trustee may take any other action deemed proper by the Trustee that is not inconsistent with that direction. Prior to taking any action hereunder, the Trustee shall be entitled to indemnification satisfactory to it in its sole discretion from Holders directing the Trustee against all losses and expenses caused by taking or not taking that action.
Section 6.06 .
Limitations on Suits
Subject to Section 6.07 hereof, a Holder of a Security of any series may pursue a remedy with respect to this Indenture or the Securities of that series only if:
(1) the Holder gives to the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default with respect to that series;
(2) the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the then outstanding Securities of that series make a written request to the Trustee to pursue the remedy;
(3) such Holder or Holders offer to the Trustee indemnity satisfactory to the Trustee against any loss, liability or expense;
(4) the Trustee does not comply with the request within 90 days after receipt of the request and the offer of indemnity; and
(5) during that 90-day period, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities of that series do not give the Trustee a direction inconsistent with the request.
A Holder may not use this Indenture to prejudice the rights of another Holder or to obtain a preference or priority over another Holder (it being understood that the Trustee does not have an affirmative duty to ascertain whether or not such actions or forbearances are unduly prejudicial to such Holders).
Section 6.07 .
Rights of Holders to Receive Payment
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture, the right of any Holder of a Security to receive payment of principal of and premium, if any, and interest on and any
 
Additional Amounts with respect to that Security, on or after the respective due dates expressed in that Security, or to bring suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after those respective dates, is absolute and unconditional and shall not be impaired or affected without the consent of the Holder.
Section 6.08 .
Collection Suit by Trustee
If an Event of Default specified in clause (1) or (2) of Section 6.01 hereof occurs and is continuing with respect to Securities of any series, the Trustee is authorized to recover judgment in its own name and as trustee of an express trust against the Company for the amount of principal, premium (if any), interest and any Additional Amounts remaining unpaid on the Securities of that series, and interest on overdue principal and premium, if any, and, to the extent lawful, interest on overdue interest, and such further amount as shall be sufficient to cover the costs and expenses of collection, including the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel.
Section 6.09 .
Trustee May File Proofs of Claim
The Trustee is authorized to file such proofs of claim and other papers or documents and to take such actions, including participating as a member, voting or otherwise, of any committee of creditors, as may be necessary or advisable to have the claims of the Trustee (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel) and the Holders allowed in any judicial proceeding relative to the Company or its creditors or properties and shall be entitled and empowered to collect, receive and distribute any money or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and any Bankruptcy Custodian in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder to make those payments to the Trustee, and in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of those payments directly to the Holders, to pay to the Trustee any amount due to it for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 7.07. To the extent that the payment of any such compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 7.07 out of the estate in any such proceeding, shall be denied for any reason, payment of the same shall be secured by a lien on, and shall be paid out of, any and all distributions, dividends, money, securities and other properties which the Holders of the Securities may be entitled to receive in that proceeding whether in liquidation or under any plan of reorganization or arrangement or otherwise. Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Holder any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Securities or the rights of any Holder thereof, or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder in any such proceeding.
 
Section 6.10 .
Priorities
If the Trustee collects any money pursuant to this Article VI, it shall pay out the money in the following order:
First: to the Trustee for amounts due under Section 7.07;
Second: to Holders for amounts due and unpaid on the Securities in respect of which or for the benefit of which that money has been collected, for principal, premium (if any), interest and any Additional Amounts ratably, without preference or priority of any kind, according to the amounts due and payable on those Securities for principal, premium (if any), interest and any Additional Amounts, respectively; and
Third: to the Company.
The Trustee, on prior written notice to the Company, may fix record dates and payment dates for any payment to Holders pursuant to this Article VI.
To the fullest extent allowed under applicable law, if for the purpose of obtaining a judgment against the Company in any court it is necessary to convert the sum due in respect of the principal of, premium (if any) or interest on or Additional Amounts with respect to the Securities of any series (the "Required Currency") into a currency in which a judgment will be rendered (the "Judgment Currency"), the rate of exchange used shall be the rate at which in accordance with normal banking procedures the Trustee could purchase in The City of New York the Required Currency with the Judgment Currency on the New York Business Day next preceding that on which final judgment is given. Neither the Company nor the Trustee shall be liable for any shortfall nor shall it benefit from any windfall in payments to Holders of Securities under this Section 6.10 caused by a change in exchange rates between the time the amount of a judgment against it is calculated as above and the time the Trustee converts the Judgment Currency into the Required Currency to make payments under this Section to Holders of Securities, but payment of that judgment shall discharge all amounts owed by the Company on the claim or claims underlying that judgment.
Section 6.11 .
Undertaking for Costs
In any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken or omitted by it as a trustee, a court in its discretion may require the filing by any party litigant in the suit of an undertaking to pay the costs of the suit, and the court in its discretion may assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees, against any party litigant in the suit, having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by the party litigant. This Section 6.11 does not apply to a suit by the Trustee, a suit by a Holder pursuant to Section 6.07, or a suit by a Holder or Holders of more than 10% in principal amount of the then outstanding Securities of any series.
 
Section 7.01 .
Duties of Trustee
(a) If an Event of Default with respect to the Securities of any series has occurred and is continuing, the Trustee shall exercise such of the rights and powers vested in it by this Indenture with respect to the Securities of that series, and use the same degree of care and skill in that exercise, as a prudent person would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of his or her own affairs.
(b) Except during the continuance of an Event of Default with respect to the Securities of any series:
(1) the Trustee need perform only those duties that are specifically set forth in this Indenture and no others, and no implied covenants or obligations shall be read into this Indenture against the Trustee; and
(2) in the absence of bad faith on its part, the Trustee may conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, on certificates or opinions furnished to the Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Indenture. However, the Trustee shall examine those certificates and opinions to determine whether, on their face, they appear to conform to the requirements of this Indenture (but need not confirm or investigate the accuracy of mathematical calculations or other facts stated therein).
(c) The Trustee may not be relieved from liabilities for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act or its own willful misconduct, except that:
(1) this paragraph does not limit the effect of Section 7.01(b);
(2) the Trustee shall not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by a Trust Officer, unless it is proved that the Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts; and
(3) the Trustee shall not be liable with respect to any action it takes or omits to take in good faith in accordance with a direction received by it pursuant to Section 6.05 hereof.
(d) Whether or not therein expressly so provided, every provision of this Indenture that in any way relates to the Trustee is subject to the provisions of this Section 7.01.
(e) No provision of this Indenture shall require the Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or incur any liability. The Trustee may refuse to perform any duty or exercise any right or power unless it receives indemnity reasonably satisfactory to it against any loss, liability or expense.
(f) The Trustee shall not be liable for interest on any money received by it except as the Trustee may agree in writing with the Company. Money held in trust by the Trustee need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law. All money received by the Trustee with respect to Securities of any series shall, until applied as herein provided, be held in trust for the payment of the principal of, premium (if any) and interest on and Additional Amounts with respect to the Securities of that series.
 
Section 7.02 .
Rights of Trustee
(a) The Trustee may conclusively rely on any document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper Person. The Trustee need not investigate any fact or matter stated in the document.
(b) Before the Trustee acts or refrains from acting, it may require instruction, and an Officer's Certificate and Opinion of Counsel to be provided. The Trustee shall not be liable for any action it takes or omits to take in good faith in reliance on that instruction, Officer's Certificate or Opinion of Counsel. The Trustee may consult with counsel of its selection, and the written advice of that counsel or any Opinion of Counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it hereunder in good faith and in reliance thereon.
(c) The Trustee may act through agents and shall not be responsible for the misconduct or negligence of any agent appointed with due care.
(d) The Trustee shall not be liable for any action it takes or omits to take in good faith which it believes to be authorized or within its rights or powers conferred on it by this Indenture.
(e) Unless otherwise specifically provided in this Indenture, any demand, request, direction or notice from the Company shall be sufficient if signed by an Officer of the Company.
(f) In no event shall the Trustee be responsible or liable for special, indirect, punitive or consequential loss or damage of any kind whatsoever (including, but not limited to, loss of profit) irrespective of whether the Trustee has been advised of the likelihood of such loss or damage and regardless of the form of action.
(g) The rights, privileges, protections, immunities and benefits given to the Trustee, including, without limitation, its right to be indemnified, are extended to, and shall be enforceable by, the Trustee in each of its capacities hereunder, and each agent, custodian and other Person employed to act hereunder.
(h) The Trustee shall not be deemed to have notice of any Default or Event of Default unless a Trust Officer of the Trustee has actual knowledge thereof or unless written notice of any event which is in fact such a default is received by the Trustee at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, and such notice references the Securities and this Indenture.
(i) The Trustee may request that the Company deliver a certificate setting forth the names of individuals and/or titles of officers authorized at such time to take specified actions pursuant to this Indenture.
 
Section 7.03 .
May Hold Securities
The Trustee in its individual or any other capacity may become the owner or pledgee of Securities and may otherwise deal with the Company or any of its Affiliates with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee. Any Agent may do the same with like rights and duties. However, the Trustee is subject to Sections 7.10 and 7.11.
Section 7.04 .
Trustee's Disclaimer
The Trustee makes no representation as to the validity or adequacy of this Indenture or the Securities; it shall not be accountable for the Company's use of the proceeds from the Securities or any money paid to the Company or upon the Company's direction under any provision hereof; it shall not be responsible for the use or application of any money received by any Paying Agent other than the Trustee; and it shall not be responsible for any statement or recital herein or any statement in the Securities other than its certificate of authentication.
Section 7.05 .
Notice of Defaults
If a Default or Event of Default with respect to the Securities of any series occurs and is continuing and it is actually known to the Trustee, the Trustee shall mail to Holders of Securities of that series a notice of the Default or Event of Default within 90 days after it occurs. Except in the case of a Default or Event of Default in payment of principal of, premium (if any) and interest on and Additional Amounts or any sinking fund installment with respect to the Securities of that series, the Trustee may withhold the notice if and so long as it in good faith determines that withholding the notice is in the interests of Holders of Securities of that series.
Section 7.06 .
Reports by Trustee to Holders
Within 60 days after each May 15 of each year after the execution of this Indenture, the Trustee shall mail to Holders of a series and the Company a brief report dated as of that reporting date that complies with TIA Section 313(a); provided, however, that if no event described in TIA Section 313(a) has occurred within the twelve months preceding the reporting date with respect to a series, no report need be transmitted to Holders of that series. The Trustee also shall comply with TIA Section 313(b). The Trustee shall also transmit by mail all reports if and as required by TIA Sections 313(c) and 313(d).
A copy of each report at the time of its mailing to Holders of a series of Securities shall be filed by the Company with the SEC and each securities exchange, if any, on which the Securities of that series are listed. The Company shall notify the Trustee in writing if and when any series of Securities is listed on any stock exchange and of any delisting thereof.
 
Section 7.07 .
Compensation and Indemnity
The Company agrees to pay to the Trustee from time to time such compensation as agreed to in writing for its acceptance of this Indenture and services hereunder. The Trustee's compensation shall not be limited by any law on compensation of a trustee of an express trust. The Company agrees to reimburse the Trustee on request for all reasonable disbursements, advances and expenses incurred by it. Those expenses shall include the reasonable compensation, disbursements and expenses of the Trustee's agents and counsel.
The Company hereby indemnifies the Trustee against any loss, liability claim (whether asserted by the Company, a Holder or any other Person) or expense incurred by it arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of its duties under this Indenture, except as set forth in the next paragraph. The Trustee shall notify the Company promptly of any claim for which it may seek indemnity. The Company shall defend the claim and the Trustee shall cooperate in the defense. The Trustee may have separate counsel, and the Company shall pay the reasonable fees and expenses of that counsel. The Company need not pay for any settlement made without its consent.
The Company shall not be obligated to reimburse any expense or indemnify against any loss or liability incurred by the Trustee through negligence or willful misconduct.
Such compensation and indemnity obligations shall survive the termination of this Indenture or the resignation or removal of the Trustee.
To secure the payment obligations of the Company in this Section 7.07, the Trustee shall have a lien prior to the Securities on all money or property held or collected by the Trustee, except that held in trust to pay principal of, premium (if any) and interest on and any Additional Amounts with respect to the Securities of any series. That lien shall survive the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture.
When the Trustee incurs expenses or renders services after an Event of Default specified in Section 6.01(5) or (6) occurs, the expenses and the compensation for the services are intended to constitute expenses of administration under any Bankruptcy Law.
Section 7.08 .
Replacement of Trustee
A resignation or removal of the Trustee and appointment of a successor Trustee shall become effective only on the successor Trustee's acceptance of appointment as provided in this Section 7.08.
The Trustee may resign and be discharged at any time with respect to the Securities of one or more series by so notifying the Company. The Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Securities of any series may remove the Trustee with respect to the Securities of that series by so notifying the Trustee and the Company. The Company may remove the Trustee if:
(1) the Trustee fails to comply with Section 7.10;
 
(2) the Trustee is adjudged a bankrupt or an insolvent or an order for relief is entered with respect to the Trustee under any Bankruptcy Law;
(3) a Bankruptcy Custodian or public officer takes charge of the Trustee or its property; or
(4) the Trustee otherwise becomes incapable of acting.
If the Trustee resigns or is removed or if a vacancy exists in the office of Trustee for any reason, with respect to the Securities of one or more series, the Company shall promptly appoint a successor Trustee or Trustees with respect to the Securities of that or those series (it being understood that any such successor Trustee may be appointed with respect to the Securities of one or more or all of those series and that at any time there shall be only one Trustee with respect to the Securities of any particular series). Within one year after the successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series takes office, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities of that series may appoint a successor Trustee to replace the successor Trustee appointed by the Company.
If a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series does not take office within 60 days after the retiring Trustee resigns or is removed, the retiring Trustee, the Company or the Holders of at least 10% in principal amount of the then outstanding Securities of that series may petition any court of competent jurisdiction, at the expense of the Company, for the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of that series.
If the Trustee with respect to the Securities of a series fails to comply with Section 7.10, any Holder of Securities of that series may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee and the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of that series.
In case of the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to all Securities, each such successor Trustee shall deliver a written acceptance of its appointment to the retiring Trustee and to the Company. Thereupon, the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective, and the successor Trustee shall have all the rights, powers and duties of the retiring Trustee under this Indenture. The successor Trustee shall mail a notice of its succession to Holders. The retiring Trustee shall promptly transfer all property held by it as Trustee to the successor Trustee, subject to the lien provided for in Section 7.07.
In case of the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more (but not all) series, the Company, the retiring Trustee and each successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more (but not all) series shall execute and deliver an indenture supplemental hereto in which each successor Trustee shall accept that appointment and that (1) shall confer to each successor Trustee all the rights, powers and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of that successor Trustee relates, (2) if the retiring Trustee is not retiring with respect to all Securities, shall confirm that all the rights, powers and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series as to which the retiring Trustee is not retiring shall continue to be vested in the retiring Trustee and (3) shall add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than
 
one Trustee. Nothing herein or in that supplemental indenture shall constitute those Trustees co-trustees of the same trust, and each such Trustee shall be trustee of a trust or trusts hereunder separate and apart from any trust or trusts hereunder administered by any other such Trustee. Upon the execution and delivery of that supplemental indenture, the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective to the extent provided therein, and each such successor Trustee shall have all the rights, powers and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of that successor Trustee relates. On the request of the Company or any successor Trustee, that retiring Trustee shall transfer to that successor Trustee all property held by that retiring Trustee as Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of that successor Trustee relates.
Notwithstanding replacement of the Trustee or Trustees pursuant to this Section 7.08, the obligations of the Company under Section 7.07 shall continue for the benefit of the retiring Trustee or Trustees.
Section 7.09 .
Successor Trustee by Merger, etc
Subject to Section 7.10, if the Trustee consolidates, merges or converts into, or transfers all or substantially all of its corporate trust business to, another corporation, the successor corporation without any further act shall be the successor Trustee; provided, however, that in the case of a transfer of all or substantially all of its corporate trust business to another corporation, the transferee corporation expressly assumes all of the Trustee's liabilities hereunder.
In case any Securities shall have been authenticated, but not delivered, by the Trustee then in office, any successor by merger, conversion or consolidation to that authenticating Trustee may adopt that authentication and deliver the Securities so authenticated; and in case at that time any of the Securities shall not have been authenticated, any successor to the Trustee may authenticate those Securities either in the name of any predecessor hereunder or in the name of the successor to the Trustee; and in all those cases those certificates shall have the full force which it is anywhere in the Securities or in this Indenture provided that the certificate of the Trustee shall have.
Section 7.10 .
Eligibility; Disqualification
There shall at all times be a Trustee hereunder which shall be a corporation organized and doing business under the laws of the United States, any State thereof or the District of Columbia and authorized under those laws to exercise corporate trust power, shall be subject to supervision or examination by Federal or State (or the District of Columbia) authority and shall have, or be a Subsidiary of a bank or bank holding company having, a combined capital and surplus of at least $50 million as set forth in its most recent published annual report of condition.
The Indenture shall always have a Trustee who satisfies the requirements of TIA Sections 310(a)(1), 310(a)(2) and 310(a)(5). The Trustee is subject to and shall comply with the provisions of TIA Section 310(b) during the period of time required by this Indenture. Nothing in this Indenture shall prevent the Trustee from filing with the SEC the application referred to in the penultimate paragraph of TIA Section 310(b).
 
Section 7.11 .
Preferential Collection of Claims Against Company
The Trustee is subject to and shall comply with the provisions of TIA Section 311(a), excluding any creditor relationship listed in TIA Section 311(b). A Trustee who has resigned or been removed shall be subject to TIA Section 311(a) to the extent indicated therein.
Section 8.01 .
Termination of Company's Obligations
(a) This Indenture shall cease to be of further effect with respect to the Securities of a series (except as to any surviving rights of conversion or of registration of transfer or exchange of Securities expressly provided for herein and except that the Company's obligations under Section 7.07, the Trustee's and Paying Agent's obligations under Section 8.03 and the rights, powers, protections and privileges accorded the Trustee under Article VII shall survive), and the Trustee, on demand of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture with respect to the Securities of that series, when:
(1) either
(A) all outstanding Securities of that series theretofore authenticated and issued (other than destroyed, lost or stolen Securities that have been replaced or paid) have been delivered to the Trustee for cancellation; or
(B) all outstanding Securities of that series not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation:
(i) have become due and payable, or
(ii) will become due and payable at their Stated Maturity within one year, or
(iii) are to be called for redemption within one year under arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for the giving of notice of redemption by the Trustee in the name, and at the expense, of the Company,
and, in the case of clause (i), (ii) or (iii) above, the Company has irrevocably deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee as funds (immediately available to the Holders in the case of clause (i)) in trust for that purpose (x) cash in an amount, or (y) Government Obligations, maturing as to principal and interest at such times and in such amounts as will ensure the availability of cash in
 
an amount or (z) a combination thereof, which will be sufficient, in the opinion (in the case of clauses (y) and (z)) of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, to pay and discharge the entire indebtedness on the Securities of that series for principal and any interest and any Additional Amounts to the date of that deposit (in the case of Securities which have become due and payable) or for principal, premium, if any, interest and any Additional Amounts to the Stated Maturity or Redemption Date, as the case may be; or
(C) the Company has properly fulfilled such other means of satisfaction and discharge as is specified, as contemplated by Section 2.01, to be applicable to the Securities of that series;
(2) the Company has paid or caused to be paid all other sums payable by it hereunder with respect to the Securities of that series; and
(3) the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officer's Certificate stating that all conditions precedent to satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture with respect to the Securities of that series have been complied with, together with an Opinion of Counsel to the same effect.
(b) Unless this Section 8.01(b) is specified as not being applicable to Securities of a series as contemplated by Section 2.01, the Company may terminate certain of its obligations under this Indenture ("Covenant Defeasance") with respect to the Securities of a series if:
(1) the Company has irrevocably deposited or caused to be irrevocably deposited with the Trustee as trust funds in trust for the purpose of making the following payments, specifically pledged as security for and dedicated solely to the benefit of the Holders of Securities of that series, (i) money in the currency in which payment of the Securities of that series is to be made in an amount, or (ii) Government Obligations with respect to that series, maturing as to principal and interest at such times and in such amounts as will ensure the availability of money in the currency in which payment of the Securities of that series is to be made in an amount or (iii) a combination thereof, that is sufficient, in the opinion (in the case of clauses (ii) and (iii)) of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, to pay, without consideration of the reinvestment of any such amounts and after payment of all taxes or other charges or assessments in respect thereof payable by the Trustee, the principal of and premium (if any) and interest on and any Additional Amounts with respect to all Securities of that series on each date that such principal, premium (if any), interest or Additional Amounts are due and payable and (at the Stated Maturity thereof or on redemption as provided in Section 8.01(e)) to pay all other sums payable by it hereunder; provided that the Trustee shall have been irrevocably instructed to apply that money and/or the proceeds of those Government Obligations to the payment of said principal, premium (if any), interest and Additional Amounts with respect to the Securities of that series as the same shall become due;
(2) the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officer's Certificate stating that all conditions precedent to satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture with respect to the Securities of that series have been complied with, and an Opinion of Counsel to the same effect;
 
(3) no Default or Event of Default with respect to the Securities of that series shall have occurred and be continuing on the date of that deposit;
(4) the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel from counsel reasonably acceptable to the Trustee or a tax ruling to the effect that the Holders of Securities of that series will not recognize income, gain or loss for Federal income tax purposes as a result of the Company's exercise of its option under this Section 8.01(b) and will be subject to Federal income tax on the same amount and in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if that option had not been exercised;
(5) the Company has complied with any additional conditions specified pursuant to Section 2.01 to be applicable to the discharge of Securities of that series pursuant to this Section 8.01; and
(6) that deposit and discharge shall not cause the Trustee to have a conflicting interest as defined in TIA Section 310(b).
In that event, this Indenture shall cease to be of further effect (except as set forth in this paragraph), and the Trustee, on demand of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging satisfaction and discharge under this Indenture. However, the Company's obligations in Sections 2.05, 2.06, 2.07, 2.08, 2.09, 4.01, 4.02, 5.01, 7.07, 7.08 and 8.04, the Trustee's and Paying Agent's obligations in Section 8.03 and the rights, powers, protections and privileges accorded the Trustee under Article VII shall survive until all Securities of that series are no longer outstanding. Thereafter, only the Company's obligations in Section 7.07 and the Trustee's and Paying Agent's obligations in Section 8.03 shall survive with respect to Securities of that series.
After making the irrevocable deposit pursuant to this Section 8.01(b) and following satisfaction of the other conditions set forth herein, the Trustee on request shall acknowledge in writing the discharge of the Company's obligations under this Indenture with respect to the Securities of that series, except for those surviving obligations specified above.
In order to have money available on a payment date to pay principal of or premium (if any) or interest on or any Additional Amounts with respect to the Securities, the Government Obligations shall be payable as to principal or interest on or before that payment date in such amounts as will provide the necessary money. Any such Government Obligations shall not be callable at the issuer's option.
(c) If the Company has previously complied or is concurrently complying with Section 8.01(b) (other than any additional conditions specified pursuant to Section 2.01 that are expressly applicable only to Covenant Defeasance) with respect to Securities of a series, then, unless this Section 8.01(c) is specified as not being applicable to Securities of that series as contemplated by Section 2.01, the Company may elect to be discharged ("Legal Defeasance") from its obligations to make payments with respect to Securities of that series, if:
 
(1) no Default or Event of Default under clauses (5) and (6) of Section 6.01 hereof shall have occurred at any time during the period ending on the 91st day after the date of deposit contemplated by Section 8.01(b) (it being understood that this condition shall not be deemed satisfied until the expiration of that period);
(2) unless otherwise specified with respect to Securities of that series as contemplated by Section 2.01, the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel from counsel reasonably acceptable to the Trustee to the effect referred to in Section 8.01(b)(4) with respect to that Legal Defeasance, which opinion is based on (i) a private ruling of the Internal Revenue Service addressed to the Company, (ii) a published ruling of the Internal Revenue Service or (iii) a change in the applicable federal income tax law (including regulations) after the date of this Indenture;
(3) the Company has complied with any other conditions specified pursuant to Section 2.01 to be applicable to the Legal Defeasance of Securities of that series pursuant to this Section 8.01(c); and
(4) the Company has delivered to the Trustee a Company Request requesting Legal Defeasance of the Securities of that series and an Officer's Certificate stating that all conditions precedent with respect to Legal Defeasance of the Securities of that series have been complied with, together with an Opinion of Counsel to the same effect.
In that event, the Company will be discharged from its obligations under this Indenture and the Securities of that series to pay principal of, premium (if any) and interest on, and any Additional Amounts with respect to, Securities of that series, the Company's obligations under Sections 4.01, 4.02 and 5.01 shall terminate with respect to those Securities, and the entire indebtedness of the Company evidenced by those Securities shall be deemed paid and discharged.
(d) If and to the extent additional or alternative means of satisfaction, discharge or defeasance of Securities of a series are specified to be applicable to that series as contemplated by Section 2.01, the Company may terminate any or all of its obligations under this Indenture with respect to Securities of a series and any or all of its obligations under the Securities of that series if it fulfills such other means of satisfaction and discharge as may be so specified, as contemplated by Section 2.01, to be applicable to the Securities of that series.
(e) If Securities of any series subject to subsections (a), (b), (c) or (d) of this Section 8.01 are to be redeemed prior to their Stated Maturity, whether pursuant to any optional redemption provisions or in accordance with any mandatory or optional sinking fund provisions, the terms of the applicable trust arrangement shall provide for that redemption, and the Company shall make such arrangements as are reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee for the giving of notice of redemption by the Trustee in the name, and at the expense, of the Company.
Section 8.02
Application of Trust Money.
The Trustee or a trustee reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee and the Company shall hold in trust money or Government Obligations deposited with it pursuant to Section 8.01 hereof.
 
It shall apply the deposited money and the money from Government Obligations through the Paying Agent and in accordance with this Indenture to the payment of principal of, premium (if any) and interest on and any Additional Amounts with respect to the Securities of the series with respect to which the deposit was made.
Section 8.03
Repayment to Company.
The Trustee and the Paying Agent shall promptly pay to the Company at any time on the written request of the Company any excess money or Government Obligations (or proceeds therefrom) held by them.
Subject to the requirements of any applicable abandoned property laws, the Trustee and the Paying Agent shall pay to the Company on written request any money held by them for the payment of principal, premium (if any), interest or any Additional Amounts that remain unclaimed for two years after the date on which that payment shall have become due. After payment to the Company, Holders entitled to the money must look to the Company for payment as general creditors unless an applicable abandoned property law designates another Person, and all liability of the Trustee and the Paying Agent with respect to that money shall cease.
Section 8.04
Reinstatement.
If the Trustee or the Paying Agent is unable to apply any money or Government Obligations deposited with respect to Securities of any series in accordance with Section 8.01 by reason of any legal proceeding or by reason of any order or judgment of any court or governmental authority enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting that application, the obligations of the Company under this Indenture with respect to the Securities of that series and under the Securities of that series shall be revived and reinstated as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to Section 8.01 until such time as the Trustee or the Paying Agent is permitted to apply all such money or Government Obligations in accordance with Section 8.01; provided, however, that if the Company has made any payment of principal of, premium (if any) or interest on or any Additional Amounts with respect to any Securities because of the reinstatement of its obligations, the Company shall be subrogated to the rights of the Holders of those Securities to receive such payment from the money or Government Obligations held by the Trustee or the Paying Agent.
Section 9.01
Without Consent of Holders.
The Company and the Trustee may amend or supplement this Indenture or the Securities or waive any provision hereof or thereof without the consent of any Holder:
(1) to cure any ambiguity, omission, defect or inconsistency;
 
(2) to comply with Section 5.01;
(3) to provide for uncertificated Securities in addition to or in place of certificated Securities, or to provide for the issuance of bearer Securities (with or without coupons);
(4) to comply with any requirement in order to effect or maintain the qualification of this Indenture under the TIA or conform the Indenture or the Securities of any series to the description thereof contained in any applicable prospectus, prospectus supplement, free writing prospectus, offering memorandum, term sheet or other offering document as evidenced in an Officer's Certificate;
(5) to add to the covenants of the Company for the benefit of the Holders of all or any series of Securities (and if those covenants are to be for the benefit of less than all series of Securities, stating that those covenants are expressly being included solely for the benefit of that series), or to surrender any right or power herein conferred on the Company;
(6) to add any additional Events of Default with respect to all or any series of the Securities (and, if any such Event of Default is applicable to less than all series of Securities, specifying the series to which that Event of Default is applicable);
(7) to change or eliminate any of the provisions of this Indenture; provided that any such change or elimination shall become effective only when there is no Outstanding Security of any series created prior to the execution of that amendment or supplemental indenture that is adversely affected in any material respect by that change in or elimination of that provision;
(8) to establish the form or terms of Securities of any series as permitted by Section 2.01;
(9) to supplement any of the provisions of this Indenture to such extent as shall be necessary to permit or facilitate the defeasance and discharge of any series of Securities pursuant to Section 8.01; provided, however, that any such action shall not adversely affect the interest of the Holders of Securities of that series or any other series of Securities in any material respect;
(10) to secure the Securities; or
(11) to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment hereunder by a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more series and to add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one Trustee, pursuant to the requirements of Section 7.08.
Upon the request of the Company, accompanied by a Board Resolution, and upon receipt by the Trustee of the documents described in Section 9.06, the Trustee shall, subject to Section 9.06, join with the Company in the execution of any supplemental indenture authorized or permitted by the terms of this Indenture and make any further appropriate agreements and stipulations that may be therein contained.
 
Section 9.02
With Consent of Holders.
Except as provided below in this Section 9.02, the Company and the Trustee may amend or supplement this Indenture with the written consent (including consents obtained in connection with a tender offer or exchange offer for Securities of any one or more series or all series or a solicitation of consents in respect of Securities of any one or more series or all series, provided that in each case that offer or solicitation is made to all Holders of then outstanding Securities of each such series (but the terms of that offer or solicitation may vary from series to series)) of the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Securities of all series affected by that amendment or supplement (acting as one class).
Upon the request of the Company, accompanied by a Board Resolution, and upon the filing with the Trustee of evidence of the consent of the Holders as aforesaid, and upon receipt by the Trustee of the documents described in Section 9.06, the Trustee shall, subject to Section 9.06, join with the Company in the execution of that amendment or supplemental indenture.
It shall not be necessary for the consent of the Holders under this Section 9.02 to approve the particular form of any proposed amendment, supplement or waiver, but it shall be sufficient if that consent approves the substance thereof.
The Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Securities of one or more series or of all series may waive compliance in a particular instance by the Company with any provision of this Indenture with respect to Securities of that series (including waivers obtained in connection with a tender offer or exchange offer for Securities of that series or a solicitation of consents in respect of Securities of that series, provided that in each case that offer or solicitation is made to all Holders of then outstanding Securities of that series (but the terms of that offer or solicitation may vary from series to series)).
However, without the consent of each Holder affected, an amendment, supplement or waiver under this Section 9.02 may not:
(1) reduce the amount of Securities whose Holders must consent to an amendment, supplement or waiver;
(2) reduce the rate of or change the time for payment of interest, including default interest, on any Security;
(3) reduce the principal of, premium on or any Mandatory Sinking Fund Payment with respect to, or change the Stated Maturity of, any Security or reduce the amount of the principal of an Original Issue Discount Security that would be due and payable on a declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 6.02;
(4) reduce the premium, if any, payable on the redemption of any Security or change the time at which any Security may or shall be redeemed;
 
(5) change any obligation of the Company to pay Additional Amounts with respect to any Security;
(6) change the coin or currency or currencies (including composite currencies) in which any Security or any premium, interest or Additional Amounts with respect thereto are payable;
(7) impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any payment of principal of, premium (if any) or interest on or any Additional Amounts with respect to any Security pursuant to Sections 6.07 and 6.08, except as limited by Section 6.06;
(8) make any change in the percentage of principal amount of Securities necessary to waive compliance with certain provisions of this Indenture pursuant to Section 6.04 or 6.07 or make any change in this sentence of Section 9.02; or
(9) waive a continuing Default or Event of Default in the payment of principal of, premium (if any) or interest on or Additional Amounts with respect to the Securities.
A supplemental indenture that changes or eliminates any covenant or other provision of this Indenture which has expressly been included solely for the benefit of one or more particular series of Securities, or which modifies the rights of the Holders of Securities of that series with respect to that covenant or other provision, shall be deemed not to affect the rights under this Indenture of the Holders of Securities of any other series.
The right of any Holder to participate in any consent required or sought pursuant to any provision of this Indenture (and the obligation of the Company to obtain any such consent otherwise required from that Holder) may be subject to the requirement that such Holder shall have been the Holder of record of any Securities with respect to which that consent is required or sought as of a date identified by the Company in a notice furnished to Holders in accordance with the terms of this Indenture.
After an amendment, supplement or waiver under this Section 9.02 becomes effective, the Company shall mail to the Holders of each Security affected thereby a notice briefly describing the amendment, supplement or waiver. Any failure of the Company to mail that notice, or any defect therein, shall not, however, in any way impair or affect the validity of any such amendment, supplement or waiver.
Section 9.03
Compliance with Trust Indenture Act.
Every amendment or supplement to this Indenture or the Securities shall comply in form and substance with the TIA as then in effect.
Section 9.04 .
Revocation and Effect of Consents
Until an amendment, supplement or waiver becomes effective, a consent to it by a Holder is a continuing consent by the Holder and every subsequent Holder of a Security or portion of a
 
Security that evidences the same debt as the consenting Holder's Security, even if notation of the consent is not made on any Security. However, any such Holder or subsequent Holder may revoke the consent as to his or her Security or portion of a Security if the Trustee receives written notice of revocation before the date the amendment, supplement or waiver becomes effective. An amendment, supplement or waiver becomes effective in accordance with its terms and thereafter binds every Holder.
The Company may, but shall not be obligated to, fix a record date (which need not comply with Section 316(c) of the TIA) for the purpose of determining the Holders entitled to consent to any amendment, supplement or waiver or to take any other action under this Indenture. If a record date is fixed, then notwithstanding the provisions of the immediately preceding paragraph, those Persons who were Holders at that record date (or their duly designated proxies), and only those Persons, shall be entitled to consent to that amendment, supplement or waiver or to revoke any consent previously given, whether or not those Persons continue to be Holders after that record date. No consent shall be valid or effective for more than 90 days after that record date unless consents from Holders of the principal amount of Securities required hereunder for that amendment or waiver to be effective shall have also been given and not revoked within that 90-day period.
After an amendment, supplement or waiver becomes effective, it shall bind every Holder, unless it is of the type described in any of clauses (1) through (9) of Section 9.02 hereof. In that case, the amendment, supplement or waiver shall bind each Holder affected and every subsequent Holder that evidences the same debt as the affected Holder's Security.
Section 9.05 .
Notation on or Exchange of Securities
If an amendment or supplement changes the terms of an outstanding Security, the Company may require the Holder of the Security to deliver it to the Trustee. The Trustee may place an appropriate notation on the Security at the request of the Company regarding the changed terms and return it to the Holder. Alternatively, if the Company so determines, the Company in exchange for the Security shall issue and the Trustee shall authenticate upon receipt of a Company Order a new Security that reflects the changed terms. Failure to make the appropriate notation or to issue a new Security shall not affect the validity of that amendment or supplement.
Securities of any series authenticated and delivered after the execution of any amendment or supplement may, and shall if required by the Company, bear a notation in form approved by the Company as to any matter provided for in that amendment or supplement.
Section 9.06
Trustee to Sign Amendments, etc.
The Trustee shall sign any amendment or supplement authorized pursuant to this Article if the amendment or supplement does not adversely affect the rights, duties, liabilities or immunities of the Trustee. If it does, the Trustee may, but need not, sign it. In signing or refusing to sign that amendment or supplement, the Trustee shall receive, and, subject to Section 7.01
 
hereof, shall be fully protected in conclusively relying on, an Officer's Certificate and Opinion of Counsel provided at the expense of the Company as conclusive evidence that such amendment or supplement is authorized or permitted by this Indenture, that it is not inconsistent herewith, and that it will be legal, valid and binding enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms.
Section 10.01
Trust Indenture Act Controls.
If any provision of this Indenture limits, qualifies or conflicts with the duties imposed by operation of TIA Section 318(c), the imposed duties shall control.
Section 10.02
Notices.
Any notice or communication by the Company or the Trustee to the other is duly given if in writing and delivered in person or mailed by first-class mail (registered or certified, return receipt requested), facsimile, email or overnight air courier guaranteeing next day delivery, to the other's address:
If to the Company:
QEP Resources, Inc.
1050 17
th
Street, Suite 500
Denver, Colorado 80265
Attention: General Counsel
If to the Trustee:
Wells Fargo Bank, National Association
Attention: Corporate Trust Department
707 Wilshire Blvd., 17
th
Floor
Los Angeles, California 90017
The Company or the Trustee by notice to the other may designate additional or different addresses for subsequent notices or communications.
All notices and communications shall be deemed to have been duly given: at the time delivered by hand, if personally delivered; five Business Days after being deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, if mailed; when sent, if emailed; when receipt acknowledged, if by facsimile; and the next Business Day after timely delivery to the courier, if sent by overnight air courier guaranteeing next day delivery.
Any notice or communication to a Holder shall be mailed by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to the Holder's address shown on the register kept by the Registrar. Failure to mail a notice or communication to a Holder or any defect in it shall not affect its sufficiency with respect to other Holders.
 
If a notice or communication is mailed in the manner provided above within the time prescribed, it is duly given, whether or not the addressee receives it, except in the case of notice to the Trustee, it is duly given only when received.
If the Company mails a notice or communication to Holders, it shall mail a copy to the Trustee and each Agent at the same time.
All notices or communications, including without limitation notices to the Trustee or the Company by Holders, shall be in writing, except as otherwise set forth herein.
In case by reason of the suspension of regular mail service, or by reason of any other cause, it shall be impossible to mail any notice required by this Indenture, then such method of notification as shall be made with the approval of the Trustee shall constitute a sufficient mailing of that notice.
Section 10.03 .
Communication by Holders with Other Holders
Holders may communicate pursuant to TIA Section 312(b) with other Holders with respect to their rights under this Indenture or the Securities. The Company, the Trustee, the Registrar and anyone else shall have the protection of TIA Section 312(c).
Section 10.04 .
Certificate and Opinion as to Conditions Precedent
Upon any request or application by the Company to the Trustee to take any action under this Indenture, the Company shall, if requested by the Trustee, furnish to the Trustee at the expense of the Company:
(1) an Officer's Certificate (which shall include the statements set forth in Section 10.05) stating that, in the opinion of the signer, all conditions precedent and covenants, if any, provided for in this Indenture relating to the proposed action have been complied with; and
(2) an Opinion of Counsel (which shall include the statements set forth in Section 10.05 hereof) stating that, in the opinion of that counsel, all those conditions precedent and covenants have been complied with.
Section 10.05 .
Statements Required in Certificate or Opinion
Each certificate or opinion with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for in this Indenture (other than a certificate provided pursuant to TIA Section 314(a)(4)) shall comply with the provisions of TIA Section 314(e) and shall include:
 
(1) a statement that the Person making that certificate or opinion has read that covenant or condition;
(2) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation on which the statements or opinions contained in that certificate or opinion are based;
(3) a statement that, in the opinion of that Person, he or she has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable him or her to express an informed opinion as to whether or not that covenant or condition has been complied with; and
(4) a statement as to whether or not, in the opinion of that Person, that condition or covenant has been complied with.
Section 10.06 .
Rules by Trustee and Agents
The Trustee may make reasonable rules for action by or at a meeting of Holders. The Registrar or the Paying Agent may make reasonable rules and set reasonable requirements for its functions.
Section 10.07 .
Legal Holidays
If a payment date is a Legal Holiday at a Place of Payment, payment may be made at that place on the next succeeding day that is not a Legal Holiday, and no interest shall accrue for the intervening period.
Section 10.08 .
No Recourse Against Others
A director, officer, employee, stockholder, partner or other owner of the Company, or the Trustee (other than a stockholder, partner or other owner which itself is the Company), as such, shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Securities or for any obligations of the Company, or the Trustee under this Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of those obligations or their creation. Each Holder by accepting a Security waives and releases all that liability. The waiver and release shall be part of the consideration for the issue of Securities.
Section 10.09 ; Jury Trial Waiver.
Governing Law
THIS INDENTURE AND THE SECURITIES SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO ANY PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAWS THEREUNDER TO THE EXTENT THE LAWS OF ANOTHER JURISDICTION WOULD BE REQUIRED THEREBY. EACH OF THE COMPANY AND THE
 
TRUSTEE HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY AND ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS INDENTURE, THE SECURITIES OR THE TRANSACTION CONTEMPLATED HEREBY.
Section 10.10 .
No Adverse Interpretation of Other Agreements
This Indenture may not be used to interpret another indenture, loan or debt agreement of the Company or any Subsidiary. Any such indenture, loan or debt agreement may not be used to interpret this Indenture.
Section 10.11 .
Successors
All agreements of the Company in this Indenture and the Securities shall bind its successors. All agreements of the Trustee in this Indenture shall bind its successors.
Section 10.12
Severability.
In case any provision in this Indenture or in the Securities shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Section 10.13 .
Counterpart Originals
The parties may sign any number of copies of this Indenture. Each signed copy shall be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement. The exchange of copies of this Indenture and of signature pages by facsimile or PDF transmission shall constitute effective execution and delivery of this Indenture as to the parties hereto and may be used in lieu of the original Indenture for all purposes. Signatures of the parties hereto transmitted by facsimile or PDF shall be deemed to be their original signatures for all purposes.
Section 10.14 .
Table of Contents, Headings, etc
The table of contents, cross-reference table and headings of the Articles and Sections of this Indenture have been inserted for convenience of reference only, are not to be considered a part hereof and shall in no way modify or restrict any of the terms or provisions hereof.
 
Section 10.15
U.S.A. Patriot Act.
The parties hereto acknowledge that in accordance with Section 326 of the U.S.A. Patriot Act, the Trustee, like all financial institutions and in order to help fight the funding of terrorism and money laundering, is required to obtain, verify, and record information that identifies each person or legal entity that establishes a relationship or opens an account with the Trustee. The parties to this Indenture agree that they will provide the Trustee with such information as it may request in order for the Trustee to satisfy the requirements of the U.S.A. Patriot Act.
Section 10.16
Force Majeure.
In no event shall the Trustee be responsible or liable for any failure or delay in the performance of its obligations hereunder arising out of or caused by, directly or indirectly, forces beyond its control, including without limitation, strikes, work stoppages, accidents, acts of war or terrorism, civil or military disturbances, nuclear or natural catastrophes or acts of God, and interruptions, loss or malfunctions or utilities, communications or computer (software and hardware) services; it being understood that the Trustee shall use reasonable efforts which are consistent with accepted practices in the banking industry to resume performance as soon as practicable under the circumstances.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Indenture to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written.
 
 

Exhibit 4.2
The undersigned officer of QEP Resources, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), hereby certifies on behalf of the Company pursuant to Sections 2.01, 2.04 and 10.04 of the Indenture, dated as of March 1, 2012 (the ""), between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee (the ""), as follows:
Company
Indenture
Trustee
1. There is hereby established, pursuant to the resolutions of the Board of Directors of the Company adopted on February 14, 2012, together with the resolutions of the Pricing Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company adopted on February 27, 2012 (the ""), a series of Securities to be issued under the Indenture, which have the following terms:
Resolutions
a. The title of the series of Securities shall be 5.375% Senior Notes due 2022 (the "").
Notes
b. The aggregate principal amount of the Notes to be offered and issued under the Indenture shall be $500,000,000.
c. The Notes shall mature on October 1, 2022, and shall bear interest from the date of original issue at the rate of 5.375% per annum, payable semi-annually in arrears on April 1 and October 1 of each year, to Holders of record at the close of business on the immediately preceding March 15 or September 15, as the case may be, commencing October 1, 2012.
d. Before the date that is three months prior to the maturity date for the Notes, the Notes shall be redeemable at the option of the Company, in whole or in part, at any time or from time to time upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' notice at a redemption price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed or (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the Notes to be redeemed (not including any portion of such payments of interest accrued as of the redemption date) discounted to the redemption date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of 12 months with 30 days each) at the Treasury Rate (as defined in the Note) plus 50 basis points, plus accrued and unpaid interest on the principal amount of the Notes being redeemed to the redemption date (provided that interest payments due on or prior to the redemption date will be paid to the record Holders of such Notes on the relevant record date).
On or after the date that is three months prior to the maturity date for the Notes, the Notes will be redeemable, in whole at any time or in part from time to time, at the Company's option at par plus accrued interest thereon to but excluding the date of redemption.
e. Payment of principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on the Notes will be made at the office or agency of the Company in Denver, Colorado or, in the event that certificated Notes are issued or if required by The Depository Trust Company (""), in New York City, New York, maintained for such purpose, or, at the option of the Company, may be made by check mailed to the address of the person entitled to such payments at the address specified in the Security Register. All payments shall be made in currency and coins of the United States of America recognized as legal tender at the time of payment for payment of public and private debts.
DTC
f. The Company has no sinking fund or mandatory redemption obligations applicable to the Notes.
g. The Notes are issuable only in registered form without coupons in minimum denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof.
h. If an event of default with respect to the Notes shall occur and be continuing, the principal amount of the Notes may be declared due and payable in the manner and subject to the conditions provided in the Indenture.
i. There are no deletions from, modifications of or additions to the Events of Default set forth in Section 6.01 of the Indenture or covenants of the Company set forth in Article IV of the Indenture pertaining to the Notes, except as set forth below.
j. The form of the Notes is attached as Exhibit A and the Notes shall have such other terms and provisions as are set forth in the form of Notes, all of which terms and provisions are incorporated by reference in and made a part of this Certificate and the Indenture as if set forth in full herein and therein.
k. The Notes shall be issued in global form with DTC as depositary. The Notes represented by the global notes will be exchangeable for Notes in the definitive form, known as certificated notes, only if (i) DTC or its nominee notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as depositary for the global notes or the Company becomes aware that DTC has ceased to be a clearing agency registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the ""), and the Company has not appointed a successor
Exchange Act
 
depositary within 90 days after the Company receives such notice or becomes aware of such ineligibility or (ii) the Company, in its sole discretion, determines to discontinue use of the system of book-entry transfer and to exchange the global notes for certificated debt securities.
l. Section 8.01 of the Indenture does apply to the Notes.
m. If a Change of Control (defined below) occurs and is accompanied by a Rating Decline (defined below, and together with a Change of Control, a ""), each Holder of the Notes will have the right to require the Company to offer to repurchase all or any part (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of such Holder's Notes at a purchase price in cash equal to 101% of the principal amount of such Notes plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of purchase.
Change of Control Triggering Event
Within 30 days following any Change of Control Triggering Event, the Company will mail a notice (the "") to each Holder of Notes with a copy to the Trustee stating:
Change of Control Offer
(1) that a Change of Control Triggering Event has occurred and that such Holder has the right to require the Company to purchase such Holder's Notes at a purchase price in cash equal to 101% of the principal amount of such Notes plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of purchase (the "");
Change of Control Payment
(2) the repurchase date (which shall be no earlier than 30 days nor later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed and which may be up to five days after the expiration of the Change of Control Offer) (the ""); and
Change of Control Payment Date
(3) the procedures determined by the Company, consistent with the Indenture, that a Holder must follow in order to have its Notes repurchased.
On the Change of Control Payment Date the Company will, to the extent lawful:
(1) accept for payment all Notes or portions thereof (in integral multiples of $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) properly tendered and not withdrawn under the Change of Control Offer;
(2) deposit with the Paying Agent an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all Notes or portions thereof so tendered; and
 
(3) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Notes so accepted together with an Officer's Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of such Notes or portions thereof being purchased by the Company.
The Paying Agent will promptly mail or otherwise deliver to each Holder of Notes so tendered the Change of Control Payment for such Notes, and the Trustee will promptly authenticate and mail (or cause to be transferred by book entry) to each Holder a new Note equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of the Notes surrendered, if any; that each such new Note will be in a principal amount of $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof.
provided
If the Change of Control Payment Date is on or after an interest record date and on or before the related interest payment date, any accrued and unpaid interest, if any, will be paid to the Person in whose name a Note is registered at the close of business on such record date, and no additional interest will be payable to Holders who tender pursuant to the Change of Control Offer.
Prior to mailing a Change of Control Offer, and as a condition to such mailing (i) the requisite Holders of each issue of Indebtedness issued under any indenture or other agreement that may be violated by such payment shall have consented to such Change of Control Offer being made and waived the event of default, if any, caused by the Change of Control Triggering Event or (ii) the Company will repay all outstanding Indebtedness issued under any indenture or other agreement that may be violated by a payment to the Holders of Notes under a Change of Control Offer or the Company must offer to repay all such Indebtedness, and make payment to the holders of such Indebtedness that accept such offer and obtain waivers of any event of default from the remaining holders of such Indebtedness. The Company covenants to effect such repayment or obtain such consent and waiver within 30 days following any Change of Control Triggering Event, it being an Event of Default under the Indenture if the Company fails to comply with such covenant within 30 days after receipt of written notice from the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the Notes.
The Company will not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon a Change of Control Triggering Event if a third party makes the Change of Control Offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements set forth in the Indenture applicable to a Change of Control Offer made by the Company and purchases all Notes validly tendered and not withdrawn under such Change of Control Offer.
The Company will comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act and any other securities laws and regulations
 
thereunder to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Notes as a result of a Change of Control Triggering Event. To the extent that the provisions of any such securities laws or regulations conflict with the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Notes, the Company will comply with those securities laws and regulations and will not be deemed to have breached its obligations under the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Notes by virtue of any such conflict.
For purposes of the Notes:
"Change of Control" means:
(a) any "person" or "group" (as such terms are used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act, but excluding any employee benefit plan of such person or its subsidiaries, and any person or entity acting in its capacity as trustee, agent or other fiduciary or administrator of any such plan) becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act except that a person or group shall be deemed to have "beneficial ownership" of all securities that such person or group has the right to acquire, whether such right is exercisable immediately or only after the passage of time (such right, an "option right")), directly or indirectly, of 50% or more of the equity securities of the Company entitled to vote for members of the Board of Directors or equivalent governing body of the Company on a fully-diluted basis (and taking into account all such securities that such person or group has the right to acquire pursuant to any option right); or
(b) a majority of the members of the Board of Directors or equivalent governing body of the Company ceases to be composed of individuals (i) who were members of that Board of Directors or equivalent governing body on the date the Notes were issued, (ii) whose election or nomination to that Board of Directors or equivalent governing body was approved by individuals referred to in clause (i) above constituting at the time of such election or nomination at least a majority of that Board of Directors or equivalent governing body or (iii) whose election or nomination to that Board of Directors or equivalent governing body was approved by individuals referred to in clauses (i) and (ii) above constituting at the time of such election or nomination at least a majority of that Board of Directors or equivalent governing body (excluding, in the case of both clause (ii) and clause (iii), any individual whose initial nomination for, or assumption of office as, a member of that Board of Directors or equivalent governing body occurs as a result of an actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents for the election or removal of one or more directors by any person or group other than a solicitation for the election of one or more directors by or on behalf of the Board of Directors).
 
"Moody's" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. or, if Moody's Investors Service, Inc. shall cease rating debt securities having a maturity at original issue of at least one year and such ratings business shall have been transferred to a successor Person, such successor Person; , that if there is no successor Person, then "Moody's" shall mean any other national recognized rating agency, other than S&P, that rates debt securities having a maturity at original issuance of at least one year and that shall have been designated by the Company.
provided, however
"Rating Agencies" means Moody's and S&P.
"Rating Date" means the earlier of the date of public notice of (i) the occurrence of a Change of Control or (ii) the Company's intention to effect a Change of Control.
"Rating Decline" shall be deemed to have occurred if, no later than 30 days after the Rating Date (which period shall be extended so long as the rating of the Notes is under publicly announced consideration for possible downgrade by either of the Rating Agencies), either of the Rating Agencies decreases its rating of the Notes to a rating that is below its rating of the Notes on the day immediately prior to the earlier of (i) the date of the first public announcement of the possibility of a proposed transaction which would result in a Change of Control or (ii) the date that the possibility of such transaction is disclosed to either of the Rating Agencies.
"S&P" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Service or, if Standard & Poor's Ratings Service shall cease rating debt securities having a maturity at original issue of at least one year and such ratings business shall have been transferred to a successor Person, such successor Person; provided, however, that if there is no successor Person, then "S&P" shall mean any other national recognized rating agency, other than Moody's, that rates debt securities having a maturity at original issuance of at least one year and that shall have been designated by the Company.
n. No Notes are to be issuable upon the exercise of warrants.
o. The Trustee is the only trustee for the Notes; the Trustee shall also serve as the Security Registrar, Paying Agent and Authenticating Agent for the Notes unless it is necessary to also maintain such agents in New York City.
2. The undersigned has read the Indenture, including the applicable provisions of the Indenture and the definitions therein relating thereto with respect to the matters covered by this Certificate. In the opinion of the undersigned, he has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable him to express an informed opinion as to whether or not all conditions precedent to the authentication and delivery of
 
the Notes by the Trustee under the Indenture have been complied with and as to whether, to the best knowledge of the undersigned, no event which is, or after notice or lapse of time would become, an Event of Default with respect to any of the Notes has occurred and is continuing. In the opinion of the undersigned, all such conditions precedent have been complied with and, to the best of the undersigned's knowledge, no such event has occurred and is continuing.
Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Indenture.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have caused this certificate to be executed as of the date first written above.
 
Exhibit A
THIS SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY AS REFERRED TO IN THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERENCED. UNLESS AND UNTIL IT IS EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR THE INDIVIDUAL SECURITIES REPRESENTED HEREBY, THIS GLOBAL SECURITY MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITARY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY THE DEPOSITARY OR ANY SUCH NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY.
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL SINCE THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
 
CUSIP No.
74733VAB6
QEP RESOURCES, INC., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of Delaware (herein called the "Company," which term includes any successor corporation under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the principal sum of Five Hundred Million Dollars ($500,000,000) on October 1, 2022 and to pay interest thereon from March 1, 2012 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date (as defined herein) to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually in arrears on April 1 and October 1 of each year (each an "Interest Payment Date"), commencing October 1, 2012, at the rate of 5.375% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment, and (to the extent that the payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable) at the rate of 5.375% per annum on any overdue principal and premium and on any overdue installment of interest. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the regular record date for such interest, which shall be the March 15 or September 15 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, immediately preceding such Interest Payment Date (each a "Regular Record Date"). Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for ("Defaulted Interest") will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a special record date
for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Company (or the Trustee on behalf of the Company), notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Securities not less than 15 days prior to such special record date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture.
Payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on this Security will be made at the office or agency of the Company in Denver, Colorado or The City of New York maintained for such purpose, and at any other office or agency maintained by the Company for such purpose, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; provided, however, that at the option of the Company payment of interest may be made by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register.
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal.
Dated: March 1, 2012
 
 
This is one of the Securities of the series designated herein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
 
This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of debt securities of the Company (herein called the "Securities"), issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture, dated as of March 1, 2012 (herein called the "Indenture," which term shall have the meaning assigned to it in such instrument), between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee (herein called the "Trustee," which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), and reference is hereby made to the Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Security is one of the series designated on the face hereof, limited in aggregate principal amount to $500,000,000.
Before the date that is three months prior to the maturity date for the Securities, the Securities are subject to redemption upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' notice by first-class mail, at any time, or from time to time, as a whole or in part, at the election of the Company, at a Redemption Price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of the Securities to be redeemed or (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the Securities to be redeemed (not including any portion of such payments of interest accrued as of the Redemption Date) discounted to the Redemption Date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate plus 50 basis points, plus accrued and unpaid interest on the principal amount of the Securities being redeemed to the Redemption Date; provided that interest payments due on or prior to the Redemption Date will be paid to the record Holders of such Securities on the relevant record date. As used herein the following terms will have the definitions given below:
On or after the date that is three months prior to the maturity date for the Securities, the Securities may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at the Company's option at par plus accrued interest thereon to but not including the Redemption Date.
"Treasury Rate" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, the rate per year equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity or interpolated (on a day count basis) of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption Date.
"Comparable Treasury Issue" means the United States Treasury security or securities selected by an Independent Investment Banker as having an actual or interpolated (on a day count basis) maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Securities to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of a comparable maturity to the remaining term of the Securities.
"Independent Investment Banker" means one of the Reference Treasury Dealers appointed by the Company.
 
"Comparable Treasury Price" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, (A) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (B) if the Company obtains fewer than four such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations.
"Reference Treasury Dealer" means at least four primary U.S. Government securities dealers in The City of New York as the Company shall select.
"Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Company, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Company by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 3:30 p.m. New York time on the third business day in The City of New York preceding such Redemption Date.
In the event of redemption of this Security in part only, a new Security or Securities of like tenor for the unredeemed portion hereof will be issued in the name of the Holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof.
There is no sinking fund or mandatory redemption obligation applicable to the Securities.
If a Change of Control (defined below) occurs and is accompanied by a Rating Decline (defined below, and together with a Change of Control, a "Change of Control Triggering Event"), each Holder of the Securities will have the right to require the Company to offer to repurchase all or any part (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of such Holder's Securities at a purchase price in cash equal to 101% of the principal amount of such Securities plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of purchase.
Within 30 days following any Change of Control Triggering Event, the Company will mail a notice (the "Change of Control Offer") to each Holder with a copy to the Trustee stating:
(1) that a Change of Control Triggering Event has occurred and that such Holder has the right to require the Company to purchase such Holder's Securities at a purchase price in cash equal to 101% of the principal amount of such Securities plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of purchase (the "Change of Control Payment");
(2) the repurchase date (which shall be no earlier than 30 days nor later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed and which may be up to five days after the expiration of the Change of Control Offer) (the "Change of Control Payment Date"); and
(3) the procedures determined by the Company, consistent with the Indenture, that a Holder must follow in order to have its Securities repurchased.
On the Change of Control Payment Date the Company will, to the extent lawful:
 
(1) accept for payment all Securities or portions thereof (in integral multiples of $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) properly tendered and not withdrawn under the Change of Control Offer;
(2) deposit with the Paying Agent an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all Securities or portions thereof so tendered; and
(3) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Securities so accepted together with an Officer's Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of such Securities or portions thereof being purchased by the Company.
The Paying Agent will promptly mail or otherwise deliver to each Holder of Securities so tendered the Change of Control Payment for such Securities, and the Trustee will promptly authenticate and mail (or cause to be transferred by book entry) to each Holder a new Security equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of the Securities surrendered, if any; provided that each such new Security will be in a principal amount of $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof.
If the Change of Control Payment Date is on or after an interest record date and on or before the related interest payment date, any accrued and unpaid interest, if any, will be paid to the Person in whose name a Security is registered at the close of business on such record date, and no additional interest will be payable to Holders who tender pursuant to the Change of Control Offer.
Prior to mailing a Change of Control Offer, and as a condition to such mailing (i) the requisite Holders of each issue of Indebtedness issued under any indenture or other agreement that may be violated by such payment shall have consented to such Change of Control Offer being made and waived the event of default, if any, caused by the Change of Control Triggering Event or (ii) the Company will repay all outstanding Indebtedness issued under any indenture or other agreement that may be violated by a payment to the Holders of Securities under a Change of Control Offer or the Company must offer to repay all such Indebtedness, and make payment to the holders of such Indebtedness that accept such offer and obtain waivers of any event of default from the remaining holders of such Indebtedness. The Company covenants to effect such repayment or obtain such consent and waiver within 30 days following any Change of Control Triggering Event, it being an Event of Default under the Indenture if the Company fails to comply with such covenant within 30 days after receipt of written notice from the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the Securities.
The Company will not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon a Change of Control Triggering Event if a third party makes the Change of Control Offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements set forth in the Indenture applicable to a Change of Control Offer made by the Company and purchases all Securities validly tendered and not withdrawn under such Change of Control Offer.
The Company will comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with
 
the repurchase of the Securities as a result of a Change of Control Triggering Event. To the extent that the provisions of any such securities laws or regulations conflict with the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Securities, the Company will comply with those securities laws and regulations and will not be deemed to have breached its obligations under the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Securities by virtue of any such conflict.
For purposes of the Securities:
"Change of Control" means:
(a) any "person" or "group" (as such terms are used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act, but excluding any employee benefit plan of such person or its subsidiaries, and any person or entity acting in its capacity as trustee, agent or other fiduciary or administrator of any such plan) becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act except that a person or group shall be deemed to have "beneficial ownership" of all securities that such person or group has the right to acquire, whether such right is exercisable immediately or only after the passage of time (such right, an "option right")), directly or indirectly, of 50% or more of the equity securities of the Company entitled to vote for members of the Board of Directors or equivalent governing body of the Company on a fully-diluted basis (and taking into account all such securities that such person or group has the right to acquire pursuant to any option right); or
(b) a majority of the members of the Board of Directors or equivalent governing body of the Company ceases to be composed of individuals (i) who were members of that Board of Directors or equivalent governing body on the date the Securities were issued, (ii) whose election or nomination to that Board of Directors or equivalent governing body was approved by individuals referred to in clause (i) above constituting at the time of such election or nomination at least a majority of that Board of Directors or equivalent governing body or (iii) whose election or nomination to that Board of Directors or equivalent governing body was approved by individuals referred to in clauses (i) and (ii) above constituting at the time of such election or nomination at least a majority of that Board of Directors or equivalent governing body (excluding, in the case of both clause (ii) and clause (iii), any individual whose initial nomination for, or assumption of office as, a member of that Board of Directors or equivalent governing body occurs as a result of an actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents for the election or removal of one or more directors by any person or group other than a solicitation for the election of one or more directors by or on behalf of the Board of Directors).
"Moody's" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. or, if Moody's Investors Service, Inc. shall cease rating debt securities having a maturity at original issue of at least one year and such ratings business shall have been transferred to a successor Person, such successor Person; provided, however, that if there is no successor Person, then "Moody's" shall mean any other national recognized rating agency, other than S&P, that rates debt securities having a maturity at original issuance of at least one year and that shall have been designated by the Company.
 
"Rating Agencies" means Moody's and S&P.
"Rating Date" means the earlier of the date of public notice of (i) the occurrence of a Change of Control or (ii) the Company's intention to effect a Change of Control.
"Rating Decline" shall be deemed to have occurred if, no later than 30 days after the Rating Date (which period shall be extended so long as the rating of the Securities is under publicly announced consideration for possible downgrade by either of the Rating Agencies), either of the Rating Agencies decreases its rating of the Securities to a rating that is below its rating of the Securities on the day immediately prior to the earlier of (i) the date of the first public announcement of the possibility of a proposed transaction which would result in a Change of Control or (ii) the date that the possibility of such transaction is disclosed to either of the Rating Agencies.
"S&P" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Service or, if Standard & Poor's Ratings Service shall cease rating debt securities having a maturity at original issue of at least one year and such ratings business shall have been transferred to a successor Person, such successor Person; provided, however, that if there is no successor Person, then "S&P" shall mean any other national recognized rating agency, other than Moody's, that rates debt securities having a maturity at original issuance of at least one year and that shall have been designated by the Company.
If an Event of Default with respect to Securities shall occur and be continuing, the principal amount of the Securities may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect and subject to the conditions provided in the Indenture.
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of each series to be affected. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities of each series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on this Security at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registrable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Security for
 
registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in any place where the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on this Security are payable, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities of like tenor, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
The Securities are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Securities are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of like tenor of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange or redemption of the Securities, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined in this Security shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
 

Exhibit 5.1
March 1, 2012
QEP Resources, Inc.
1050 17
th
Street, Suite 500
Denver, Colorado 80265
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We have acted as special counsel to QEP Resources, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), in connection with the issuance of $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 5.375% Senior Notes due 2022 (the ""), under an Indenture, dated as of March 1, 2012, between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee (the ""), (the "") and an officer's certificate dated March 1, 2012 setting forth the terms of the Notes (the "" and, together with the Base Indenture, the ""), and pursuant to a registration statement on Form S-3 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") on February 27, 2012 (Registration No. 333-179709) (the ""). This opinion is being furnished in connection with the requirements of Item 601(b)(5) of Regulation S-K under the Act, and no opinion is expressed herein as to any matter pertaining to the contents of the Registration Statement or related prospectus, other than as expressly stated herein with respect to the issue of the Notes.
Company
Notes
Trustee
Base Indenture
Officer's Certificate
Indenture
Act
Commission
Registration Statement
As such counsel, we have examined such matters of fact and questions of law as we have considered appropriate for purposes of this letter. With your consent, we have relied upon certificates and other assurances of officers of the Company and others as to factual matters without having independently verified such factual matters. We are opining herein as to the internal laws of the State of New York and the general corporation law of the state of Delaware, and we express no opinion with respect to the applicability thereto, or the effect thereon, of the laws of any other jurisdiction or, in the case of Delaware, any other laws, or as to any matters of municipal law or the laws of any local agencies within any state.
Subject to the foregoing and the other matters set forth herein, it is our opinion that, as of the date hereof, when the Notes have been duly executed, issued, and authenticated in accordance with the terms of the Indenture and delivered against payment therefor in the circumstances contemplated by the underwriting agreement dated February 27, 2012 between Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, as representative of the underwriters named therein, and the Company, the Notes will have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action of the Company and will be legally valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms.
March 1, 2012
Page 2
 
 
Our opinions are subject to: (i) the effect of bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, preference, fraudulent transfer, moratorium or other similar laws relating to or affecting the rights and remedies of creditors; (ii) the effect of general principles of equity, whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law (including the possible unavailability of specific performance or injunctive relief), concepts of materiality, reasonableness, good faith and fair dealing, and the discretion of the court before which a proceeding is brought; (iii) the invalidity under certain circumstances under law or court decisions of provisions providing for the indemnification of or contribution to a party with respect to a liability where such indemnification or contribution is contrary to public policy; and (iv) we express no opinion as to (a) any provision for liquidated damages, default interest, late charges, monetary penalties, make-whole premiums or other economic remedies to the extent such provisions are deemed to constitute a penalty, (b) consents to, or restrictions upon, governing law, jurisdiction, venue, arbitration, remedies, or judicial relief, (c) the waiver of rights or defenses contained in Section 4.06 of the Indenture; (d) any provision requiring the payment of attorneys' fees, where such payment is contrary to law or public policy; (e) any provision permitting, upon acceleration of the Notes, collection of that portion of the stated principal amount thereof which might be determined to constitute unearned interest thereon; (f) any provision to the extent it requires that a claim with respect to the Notes (or a judgment in respect of such a claim) be converted into U.S. dollars at a rate of exchange at a particular date, to the extent applicable law otherwise provides; and (g) the severability, if invalid, of provisions to the foregoing effect.
With your consent, we have assumed (a) that the Indenture and the Notes (collectively, the "") have been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the parties thereto other than the Company, (b) that the Documents constitute legally valid and binding obligations of the parties thereto other than the Company, enforceable against each of them in accordance with their respective terms, and (c) that the status of the Documents as legally valid and binding obligations of the parties is not affected by any (i) breaches of, or defaults under, agreements or instruments, (ii) violations of statutes, rules, regulations or court or governmental orders, or (iii) failures to obtain required consents, approvals or authorizations from, or make required registrations, declarations or filings with, governmental authorities.
Documents
 
March 1, 2012
Page 3
 
 
This opinion is for your benefit in connection with the Registration Statement and may be relied upon by you and by persons entitled to rely upon it pursuant to the applicable provisions of the Act. We consent to your filing this opinion as an exhibit to the Company's Form 8-K dated March 1, 2012 and to the reference to our firm contained in the Prospectus under the heading "Legal Matters." In giving such consent, we do not thereby admit that we are in the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Act or the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder.
 
 


