FILE:QEP/QEP-8K-20120425160316.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
Section 2 - Financial Information
On April 24, 2012 QEP Resources, Inc. (the Registrant) issued a press release to report the results of operations for the period ended March 31, 2012 and to provide an update of 2012 year to date operations and guidance. A copy of the Registrants release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, and the information contained therein is incorporated herein by reference.
The Registrants press release announcing its financial results for the period ended March 31, 2012, includes non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a companys performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Registrant has provided quantitative reconciliations within the press release of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
The information contained in Item 2.02 to this Form 8-K, including the exhibit, shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the information shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
Section 9 - Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
(d)  Exhibits.
 
2
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
List of Exhibits:
 
 
 
3

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
April 24, 2012
NYSE:  QEP
Contact:  Scott Gutberlet
Phone:  303-672-6988
 
DENVER  QEP Resources, Inc. (NYSE:  QEP) reported Adjusted EBITDA (a non-GAAP measure) of $345.7 million for the first quarter of 2012 compared to $305.8 million in the first quarter of 2011, a 13% increase.  Factors driving QEP Resources results included 13% higher total net production, 113% higher oil and NGL production, and a 7% increase in net realized crude oil prices at QEP Energy, combined with a 75% increase in gas processing margins at QEP Field Services.
 
 
QEP Resources net income during the first quarter of 2012 was $155.2 million, or $0.87 per diluted share, compared to $73.2 million, or $0.41 per diluted share in the first quarter of 2011.  Excluding changes in unrealized gains and losses on derivative contracts and gains from asset sales, QEP Resources adjusted net income (a non-GAAP measure) was $73.7 million or $0.41 per diluted share in the first quarter of 2012 compared to $53.6 million or $0.30 per diluted share in the first quarter of 2011.
 
 
1
 
 
Against a backdrop of rapidly declining natural gas prices, QEP Resources continued to focus on successful execution across our diverse asset portfolio, said Chuck Stanley, President and CEO.  In this environment, capital allocation becomes especially critical to the continued profitable growth of our company.  QEP Energy production in the first quarter of 2012 was up 13% from the same period last year, driven by strong results from the Pinedale Anticline play, combined with significant contribution from new wells in western Oklahoma and the Williston Basin.  With close to 90% of QEP Energy capital directed to higher-margin oil and liquids-rich gas plays, we grew oil and NGL production 113% in the first quarter of 2012 compared to the first quarter of 2011.  For the full year, we expect oil and NGLs to comprise over 20% of total QEP Energy production compared to 14% in 2011.  As a result of the increase in crude oil and NGL production, 50% of QEP Energys field-level production revenues during the first quarter of 2012 came from liquids.  Our midstream business, QEP Field Services, also had an excellent first quarter, thanks to a combination of strong operating results and attractive gas processing margins.  Our new Blacks Fork II plant continues to perform well, and the midstream team is now focused on new projects to drive growth for the remainder of 2012 and beyond, Stanley added.
Financial and Operating Results
QEP Energy
 
 
2
 
 
QEP Field Services
QEP Resources
QEP Resources 2012 Adjusted EBITDA and Production guidance remains unchanged
Despite the continued decline in 2012 natural gas prices, QEP expects 2012 Adjusted EBITDA to range from $1,350 million to $1,450 million and QEP Energy 2012 production to range from 305 to 310 Bcfe, unchanged from previous guidance.
The companys guidance assumes commodity derivative positions in place on the date of this relese and other assumptions summarized in the table below:
a
 
3
 
In response to current commodity prices, the company has decreased capital directed to its only dry gas development area, the Haynesville Shale, and plans to allocate 89% of the QEP Energy 2012 capital investment to higher return projects including Pinedale, Uinta Basin Red Wash Lower Mesaverde and Woodford Cana liquids-rich gas plays, and oil-directed drilling in the Bakken, Uinta Basin, Powder River Basin and Midcontinent plays.  QEP Resources now forecasts 2012 total capital investment of $1,350 million  $1,500 million, a $50 million increase over prior guidance.  QEP Field Services forecast capital investment is unchanged from the prior guidance. The increase in forecasted QEP Energy capital investment is due to:  1) an increase in the number of forecasted net completed Bakken wells with the addition of a 4 drilling rig to the program and an increase in average well costs due to Williston Basin inflation pressures; 2) additional horizontal oil-directed drilling in the TX Panhandle and Western OK in response to continued success; and 3) the addition of a drilling rig in the Uinta Basin to drill horizontal and vertical oil wells.
th
Approximately 70% of QEP Energys forecasted natural gas production, 56% of forecasted oil production and 17% of forecasted NGL production for 2012 is subject to commodity derivatives.  On a natural gas equivalent basis, the company has approximately 66% of its forecasted remaining production for 2012 subject to commodity derivatives.  A table with details of the companys positions is included at the end of this release.
QEP Energy Results
QEP Energys 2012 first quarter production increased 13% to 74.2 Bcfe compared to 65.9 Bcfe in the first quarter of 2011.  The Southern Region contributed 55% of the first quarter 2012 total production compared to 59% in the first quarter of 2011.
 
 
Includes 1.6 Bcfe in Q1 2011 from prior periods due to a change in ownership interest in a federal unit.
(1)  
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
5
 
 
QEP Energy Operations Update
QEP anticipates 110 new Pinedale completions in 2012
At the Pinedale Anticline field in western Wyoming, QEP anticipates operating 6 drilling rigs and completing 110 wells in 2012.  The company suspends Pinedale completion operations during the coldest months of the winter (generally from December through mid-March).  Completion operations re-commenced in early March and year-to-date, QEP has completed and turned to sales 23 new wells with an average working interest of 70%.  QEP currently has 41 wells drilled and cased and waiting on completion.  Drilling and completion efficiencies have allowed QEP to maintain industry-leading average gross completed well costs of $3.9 million per well.  The average drill time from spud to total depth in the first quarter of 2012 was 13.9 days.  During the first quarter of 2012, QEP Pinedale net production averaged 244 MMcfed.  As a result of the fee-based processing agreement entered into between QEP Energy and QEP Field Services effective August 1, 2011, QEP Energy average net equivalent production for the first quarter of 2012 included a significant contribution from liquids (186 MMcf/day, 1,673 Bbl Oil/day and 7,881 Bbl NGL/day).
Slides with maps and other supporting materials referred to in this release are posted on the Companys website www.qepres.com.  Please refer to slides 5 and 6 for additional Pinedale details.
Bakken/Three Forks oil production growth continues on QEPs 90,000 acre North Dakota leasehold
In the Williston Basin of North Dakota, QEP has completed and turned to sales 2 new Bakken Formation company-operated wells since the last operations update.  QEP has a 100% working interest in both new wells.  The company operates 32 producing wells in the play (26 Bakken and 6 Three Forks) and has a working interest in 106 producing wells that are operated by others.  During the first quarter of 2012, QEPs Bakken/Three Forks net production averaged 5,728 Boepd.  QEP has 11 operated wells currently being drilled (including pad wells drilled to intermediate casing) and 2 operated wells waiting on completion.  The company also has interests in 12 outside-operated wells currently being drilled and 9 outside-operated wells that are waiting on completion.  Working interests in the drilling and waiting on completion outside operated wells range from less than 1% to 28%.
The company has 3 rigs currently working in the play.  A fourth rig is expected to commence drilling on QEP leasehold by mid-June.  QEP currently estimates that the average completed well cost for a typical Bakken/Three Forks well (10,000 average lateral length) will range from $9.7 to $10.4 million in 2012.  Slide 7 shows QEPs acreage and activity in the Bakken/Three Forks play.
Strong industry activity continues in the Woodford Cana Shale play
The company has completed and turned to sales 2 new QEP-operated Woodford Cana Shale wells in western Oklahoma since the last update.  The company currently operates 27 Cana producing wells and has working interests in an additional 206 producing Cana wells that are operated by others.  During the first quarter of 2012, QEP net production from the play averaged 51 MMcfed.
QEP has 2 operated wells currently drilling and one operated well waiting on completion and has interests in 4 wells currently being drilled and 16 wells waiting on completion that are operated by others.  Working interests in the drilling and waiting on completion outside operated wells range from less than 1% to 25%.QEP plans to operate 2 to 3 rigs for the balance of 2012 in the liquids-rich gas portion of the core of the Cana play, with the majority of the activity focused on development drilling on 80-acre density.  Slide 8 depicts QEPs acreage and additional details on the Cana play.
 
 
 
6
 
QEP continues development drilling in liquids-rich gas Lower Mesaverde play in Uinta Basin
In the Uinta Basin of eastern Utah, QEP has two operated rigs drilling vertical wells targeting liquids-rich gas stacked sands in the Lower Mesaverde Formation at average drill depths of 11,000 feet.  The company has over 32,000 net acres which it believes are prospective for development of theemerging Red Wash Lower Mesaverde play.  Most of the acreage is within the Red Wash Federal Unit in which QEP owns a 100% working interest.
 
The company has 33 producing wells in the play.  QEP plans to complete approximately 40 Mesaverde wells in 2012.  The company estimates Mesaverde gross completed well costs should average about $2.2 million with average gross per well estimated ultimate recoveries of 2.3 Bcfe.  Slide 9 depicts QEPs acreage and additional details on the Lower Mesaverde play.
A third drilling rig has been added in the Uinta Basin to pursue horizontal and vertical oil targets in multiple limestone and sandstone reservoirs within the lower Green River Formation at average drill depths of 5,500 feet.  QEP plans to complete 10 Uinta Basin oil wells in 2012 with an average working interest of 70%.
Granite Wash, Tonkawa and Marmaton horizontal development in the Texas Panhandle and Western Oklahoma
In the Texas Panhandle Granite Wash play, the company has not completed any additional QEP operated horizontal wells in Wheeler County, Texas since the last operations update.  QEP has a working interest in a total of 73 producing horizontal Granite Wash/Atoka Wash wells.  During the first quarter of 2012, net production from this play (vertical and horizontal wells) averaged 43 MMcfed.  The company participated with a working interest in 8 outside-operated Granite Wash wells in the Texas Panhandle that were completed since the last operations update with working interests ranging from less than 2% to 29%.  QEP is also participating in 6 outside-operated wells that are waiting on completion with working interests ranging from 6% to 33%.
In addition, since the last update QEP has drilled and completed 2 Marmaton (average 99% working interest) and one new Tonkawa (73% working interest) horizontal oil wells in western Oklahoma and participated with a working interest in 4 outside operated wells in these plays with working interests ranging from less than 1% to 34%.  QEP currently has one rig running in the combined Granite Wash/Marmaton/Tonkawa plays.  See slide 10 for details on the Granite Wash play.
Reducing rig count in the Haynesville Shale of NW Louisiana
QEP has completed 18 additional company-operated Haynesville wells, since the last update.  In response to low natural gas prices QEP has decreased its operated rig count in the play to one, down from 6 rigs in 2011.  If natural gas prices do not significantly improve, QEP will reduce its operated rig count to zero in the third quarter of 2012 once the spacing unit currently being drilled is fully developed.  QEP-operated gross completed well costs in the first quarter of 2012 averaged $9.1 million.  The company operates 126 producing wells in the play and has a working interest in 125 producing wells that are operated by others.  During the first quarter of 2012, the companys Haynesville net production averaged 262 MMcfd and Cotton Valley/Hosston net production averaged 46 MMcfd.  QEP net production from the Haynesville play is impacted by the Companys decision to restrict the flowing rate of Haynesville wells to decrease near-wellbore pressure drawdown.  The Company continues to restrict flow rates to minimize reservoir and propped fracture damage, which should lead to increased ultimate recoverable reserves.  First quarter 2012 volumes were also impacted by a number of wells that were shut in while offset wells were completed.
QEP has one operated well drilling and 2 operated wells waiting on completion.  The Company also participated in 4 outside-operated Haynesville wells that were completed and turned to sales since the last operations update with working interests ranging from less than 1% to 25%.  QEP has a working interest in one outside-operated Haynesville well that is waiting on completion.  Refer to slide 11 for additional information on QEPs Haynesville activities.
 
 
7
 
QEP Field Services Results
QEP Field Services first quarter 2012 Adjusted EBITDA increased 37% to $84.3 million compared to $61.4 million in the first quarter of 2011.  Adjusted EBITDA increased for the quarter ended March 31, 2012, primarily due to higher processing margins.
 
First Quarter 2012 Results Conference Call
QEP Resources management will discuss first quarter 2012 results in a conference call on Wednesday, April 25, 2012 beginning at 11:00 a.m. EDT.  The call can be accessed at .  A replay of the teleconference will be available on the website immediately after the call through May 9, 2012 by dialing (855) 859-2056 in the U.S. or Canada and (404) 537-3406 for international calls, and then entering passcode 69987602.  In addition, QEPs First Quarter Operations Update Slides, with updated maps showing QEPs leasehold and current activity for key operating areas discussed in this release, can be found on the companys website.
www.qepres.com
 
About QEP Resources
QEP Resources, Inc. (NYSE:QEP) is a leading independent natural gas and oil exploration and production company with operations focused in the Rocky Mountain and Midcontinent of the United States.  QEP Resources also gathers, compresses, treats, processes and stores natural gas.
 
 
8
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements
This release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27(a) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  Forward-looking statements can be identified by words such as anticipates, believes, forecasts, plans, estimates, expects, should, will or other similar expressions.  Such statements are based on managements current expectations, estimates and projections, which are subject to a wide range of uncertainties and business risks.  These forward-looking statements include statements regarding:  forecasted Adjusted EBITDA, production and capital investment for 2012 and related assumptions for such guidance; number of rigs planned in operating areas; changes in lease operating expenses; the effects of restricting the flowing rate in the Haynesville Shale; estimated gross completed well costs and average estimated ultimate recoveries per well; QEP being the lowest cost operator in its portion of the Haynesville play; and anticipated growth from new projects of QEP Field Services.  Actual results may differ materially from those included in the forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to:  the availability of capital; changes in local, regional, national and global demand for natural gas, oil and NGL; natural gas, NGL and oil prices; potential legislative or regulatory changes regarding the use of hydraulic fracture stimulation; impact of new laws and regulations, including the implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act; drilling results; shortages of oilfield equipment, services and personnel; operating risks such as unexpected drilling conditions; weather conditions; changes in maintenance and construction costs and possible inflationary pressures; the availability and cost of credit; and the other risks discussed in the Companys periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Risk Factors section of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011.  QEP Resources undertakes no obligation to publicly correct or update the forward-looking statements in this news release, in other documents, or on the Web site to reflect future events or circumstances.  All such statements are expressly qualified by this cautionary statement.
Disclosures regarding Estimated Ultimate Recovery (EUR)
The Securities and Exchange Commission requires oil and gas companies, in their filings with the SEC, to disclose proved reserves that a company has demonstrated by actual production or through reliable technology to be economically and legally producible at specific prices and existing economic and operating conditions.  The SEC permits optional disclosure of probable and possible reserves, however QEP has made no such disclosures in our filings with the SEC.  QEP uses certain terms in our periodic news releases and other presentation materials such as estimated ultimate recovery or EUR, resource potential, and net resource potential.  These estimates are by their nature more speculative than estimates of proved, probable or possible reserves and accordingly are subject to substantially more risks of actually being realized.  The SEC guidelines strictly prohibit us from including such estimates in filings with the SEC.  Investors are urged to closely consider the disclosures about the Companys reserves in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, and in other reports on file with the SEC.
For more information, visit QEP Resources website at: .
www.qepres.com
 
 
9
 
The following table presents remaining 2012 derivative positions as of April 20, 2012:
 
 
 
 
 
10
 
 
QEP RESOURCES, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
(Unaudited)
 
 
11
 
 
QEP RESOURCES, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(Unaudited)
 
 
 
12
 
 
QEP RESOURCES, INC.
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOWS
(Unaudited)
 
 
13
 
 
QEP RESOURCES, INC.
OPERATIONS BY LINE OF BUSINESS
(Unaudited)
 
 
 
14
 
 
15
 
 
 
16
 
QEP RESOURCES, INC.
NON-GAAP MEASURES
(Unaudited)
This release contains reference to a non-GAAP measure of earnings per diluted share excluding gains and losses from asset sales, asset impairments, and unrealized gains and losses on derivative contracts.  Management believes earnings per diluted share excluding gains and losses from asset sales, asset impairments, and unrealized gains and losses on derivative contracts is an important measure of the Companys operational performance relative to other gas and oil producing companies.
The following table calculates earnings per diluted share excluding gains and losses on assets sales and unrealized gains and losses on derivative contracts:
 
 
 
17
 
 
This release also contains reference to a non-GAAP measure of Adjusted EBITDA.  Management defines Adjusted EBITDA as net income before the following items: unrealized gains and losses on derivative contracts, gains and losses from asset sales, interest and other income, income taxes, interest expense, depreciation, depletion, and amortization, abandonment and impairment, and exploration expense.  Management uses Adjusted EBITDA to assess the Company's operating results.  Management believes Adjusted EBITDA is an important measure of the Company's cash flow and liquidity and its ability to incur and service debt, fund capital expenditures and make distributions to shareholders and is an important measure for comparing the Company's financial performance to other gas and oil producing companies.  In addition, Adjusted EBITDA is a part of the Company's debt covenants as defined in its revolving credit agreement.
The following table reconciles QEP Resources net income to Adjusted EBITDA:
 
 
 
18


