FILE:FAST/FAST-8K-20051013121340.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 3.03 Material Modification to Rights of Security Holders
 
On October 11, 2005, the Board of Directors of Fastenal Company (the "Company") approved a two for one stock split of the Company's outstanding common stock, par value $0.01 per share (the "Common Stock").
 
Holders of the Company's Common Stock of record at the close of business on October 31, 2005, will receive one additional share of Common Stock for every share of Common Stock they own. The stock split will take effect at the close of business on November 10, 2005. After the split, there will be 151,054,752 shares of the Company's Common Stock outstanding. The Company's Common Stock will continue after the stock split to have a par value of $0.01 per share.
 
The full text of the press release announcing the two for one stock split is set forth in Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto and is incorporated in this Current Report as if fully set forth herein.
 
See Item 5.03 below for a description of the amendment to the Company's Restated Articles of Incorporation approved in connection with the two for one stock split.
 
Item 5.03. Amendments to the Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
 
On October 11, 2005, the Board of Directors of the Company approved an amendment to the Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Company which will, effective November 10, 2005, increase the aggregate number of shares that the Company has authority to issue. The amount of shares authorized will increase from 105,000,000 to 205,000,000. The shares will be classified in two classes, consisting of 5,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, and 200,000,000 shares of Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share. A copy of the Company's Articles of Amendment of Restated Articles of Incorporation is filed with this Current Report as Exhibit 3.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The full text of the press release announcing the two for one stock split is set forth in Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto and is incorporated in this Current Report as if fully set forth herein. This information is disclosed pursuant to Regulation FD.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
The following is furnished herewith:
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: October 13, 2005
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
 
 
The undersigned, Daniel L. Florness, Chief Financial Officer of Fastenal Company, a Minnesota corporation (the "Corporation"), hereby certifies (i) that Article III of the Corporation's Restated Articles of Incorporation has been amended, effective at the close of business on November 10, 2005 (the "Effective Time"), to read in its entirety as follows:
 
 
The aggregate number of shares that the corporation has authority to issue is 205,000,000. The shares are classified in two classes, consisting of 5,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock of the par value of $.01 per share and 200,000,000 shares of Common Stock of the par value of $.01 per share. The Board of Directors is authorized to establish one or more series of Preferred Stock, setting forth the designation of each such series, and fixing the relative rights and preferences of each such series."
 
(ii) that such amendment has been adopted in accordance with the requirements of, and pursuant to, Chapter 302A of the Minnesota Statutes; (iii) that such amendment was adopted pursuant to Section 302A.402, Subd. 3, of the Minnesota Statutes in connection with a two-for-one division of the Corporation's Common Stock, par value $.01 per share (the "Common Stock"); and (iv) that such amendment will not adversely affect the rights or preferences of the holders of outstanding shares of any class or series of the Corporation and will not result in the percentage of authorized shares of any class or series that remains unissued after such division exceeding the percentage of authorized shares of that class or series that were unissued before the division.
 
The division giving rise to the amendment set forth above is a two-for-one division of the Common Stock. Such division is being effected as follows:
 
(i) Effective at the Effective Time, each share of Common Stock outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time will be split and divided into two shares of Common Stock, all of which shall be validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable;
 
(ii) Each stock certificate representing a share or shares of Common Stock immediately prior to the Effective Time shall continue to represent the same number of shares following the Effective Time; and
(iii) A stock certificate or certificates representing one additional share of authorized but previously unissued Common Stock for each share of Common Stock outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time shall be mailed or delivered at the Effective Time or as soon thereafter as practicable to each shareholder of record entitled to receive such stock certificate or certificates. The record date for determining the shareholders of record entitled to receive such stock certificate or certificates shall be the close of business on October 31, 2005 (the "Record Date"). With respect to each share of Common Stock, if any, that is first issued and becomes outstanding after the close of business on the Record Date, but prior to the Effective Time, and remains outstanding at the Effective Time, the stock certificate for the additional share resulting from the division of any such share of Common Stock shall be mailed or delivered to the first holder of record to whom such share of Common Stock was issued.
 
The foregoing Articles of Amendment shall take effect at the Effective Time previously stated herein.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have subscribed my name this 11th day of October, 2005.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
October 11, 2005  Fastenal Company (NASDAQ: FAST) today announced that its board of directors has approved a 2-for-1 stock split of the Company's outstanding common stock.
 
Holders of the Company's common stock of record at the close of business on October 31, 2005, will receive one additional share of common stock for every share of common stock they own. The stock split will take effect at the close of business on November 10, 2005. After the split, there will be 151,054,752 shares of the Company's common stock outstanding.
 
Fastenal Company sells industrial and construction supplies grouped into ten product lines. The traditional Fastenal product line consists of threaded fasteners and other miscellaneous supplies. The Company also sells, in its other nine product lines, tools, metal cutting tool blades, fluid transfer components and accessories for hydraulic and pneumatic power, material handling and storage products, janitorial and paper products, electrical supplies, welding supplies, safety supplies, and raw materials.
 
As of September 30, 2005, the Company operated 1,717 stores in the United States, Canada, Puerto Rico, Mexico, Singapore, and the Netherlands selling to the general public. The Company also maintains 12 distribution centers in the North America from which it distributes products to its stores locations.


