FILE:FAST/FAST-8K-20071126151256.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
On November 26, 2007, Fastenal Company issued a press release announcing its board of directors had authorized, in addition to any prior repurchase authority granted by the board, purchases by the Company of up to 1,000,000 shares of its common stock from time to time in transactions on The NASDAQ Global Select Market or otherwise. The full text of the press release is set forth in Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto and is incorporated in this Current Report as if fully set forth herein. This information is disclosed pursuant to Regulation FD.
 
The following is furnished herewith:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: November 26, 2007
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
FASTENAL COMPANY  ANNOUNCES STOCK REPURCHASE PROGRAM
Fastenal Company (Winona, MN  NASDAQ: FAST) announced today that its board of directors has authorized purchases by the company of up to an additional 1,000,000 shares of its common stock in transactions on THE NASDAQ or otherwise (over and above previously authorized amounts). Fastenal Company has approximately 149 million shares of common stock outstanding. During 2007, Fastenal has purchased approximately 2.1 million shares, year-to-date. These repurchases have consumed all of the previous stock repurchase authorizations.
Fastenal sells different types of industrial and construction supplies in the following product categories: threaded fasteners and miscellaneous supplies; tools; metal cutting tool blades and abrasives; fluid transfer components and accessories for hydraulic and pneumatic power; material handling; storage and packaging products; janitorial, chemical and paint products; electrical supplies; welding supplies; safety supplies; and metals, alloys and materials.
As of October 31, 2007, the Company operated 2,150 stores in all 50 U.S. states, Canada, Puerto Rico, Mexico, and Singapore selling to the general public. The Company operates 13 distribution centers located in Minnesota, Indiana, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Texas, Georgia, Washington, California, Utah, North Carolina, Kansas, Ontario, Canada, and Monterrey, Mexico.
Additional information regarding Fastenal Company is available on the Fastenal Company World Wide Web site at . FAST-G
www.fastenal.com


