FILE:FAST/FAST-8K-20071005130657.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
On October 4, 2007, Fastenal Company (the "Company") issued a press release announcing the Company will host a conference call to review 2007 third quarter results, as well as current operations. The call will be broadcast live over the Internet on Thursday, October 11, 2007 at 9:00 a.m. Central Time. A copy of that press release is attached as an exhibit to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The following is furnished herewith:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: October 4, 2007
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
FASTENAL COMPANY  ANNOUNCES CONFERENCE CALL TO REVIEW 2007 THIRD QUARTER EARNINGS
Fastenal Company (Winona, MN  NASDAQ: FAST) announced today that the Company's conference call to review third quarter 2007 results, as well as current operations, will be broadcast live over the Internet on Thursday, October 11, 2007 at 9:00 a.m. Central Time.
An online archive of the broadcast will be available within one hour of the conclusion of the call and will be available for three weeks. Participants must have a soundcard and speakers to listen to the online broadcast.
Fastenal sells different types of industrial and construction supplies in the following product categories: threaded fasteners and miscellaneous supplies; tools; metal cutting tool blades and abrasives; fluid transfer components and accessories for hydraulic and pneumatic power; material handling; storage and packaging products; janitorial, chemical and paint products; electrical supplies; welding supplies; safety supplies; and metals, alloys and materials.
As of August 31, 2007, Fastenal operated 2,141 stores in the United States (all 50 states), Canada (all provinces), Puerto Rico (multiple), Mexico (14 states), Singapore (one location), Netherlands (one location), and China (one location) selling to the general public. The Company operates 12 distribution centers located in Minnesota, Indiana, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Texas, Georgia, Washington, California, Utah, North Carolina, Kansas, and Ontario, Canada.
Additional information regarding Fastenal Company is available on the Fastenal Company World Wide Web site at . FAST-G
www.fastenal.com


