FILE:FAST/FAST-8K-20080829101534.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On August 29, 2008, Fastenal Company issued a press release announcing a preliminary agreement to settle a class action lawsuit relating to, among other matters, the calculation of earned overtime wages for certain of the company's former assistant general managers in the United States.
While the company denies the allegations underlying the lawsuit, it has agreed to enter into the settlement agreement in order to avoid significant legal fees, the uncertainty of a jury trial, distractions to Fastenal's operations, and other expenses and management time that would have to be devoted to protracted litigation.
The settlement, which is still subject to court approval, fully resolves all claims brought by the plaintiffs in this lawsuit. Pursuant to the settlement, Fastenal will make a cash payment of $10 million to cover claims by eligible class members, plaintiff attorneys' fees and costs, and payments to the named plaintiffs. The expense for this settlement will be recorded in the quarter ending September 30, 2008. The company does not expect the settlement to have any material impact on its operating results going forward.
The full text of the press release is set forth in Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto and is incorporated in this Current Report as if fully set forth herein. This information is disclosed pursuant to Regulation FD.
 
The following is furnished herewith:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: August 29, 2008
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
PR Newswire  Editorial  Usual Distribution
For immediate distribution, August 29, 2008
Faxed to 612.331.3700, August 29, 2008
Sent via email to
mnhubs@prnewswire.com
 
Fastenal Company (Winona, MN  NASDAQ: FAST) announced today that it has reached a preliminary agreement to settle a purported class action lawsuit relating to the classification of its Assistant General Managers as exempt for purposes of the overtime provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) and California, Oregon, and Pennsylvania state statutes. This suit also alleged that Assistant General Managers in California did not receive sufficient meal breaks and paid rest periods under the California Labor Code (Note: This case was originally reported on Fastenal's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2007, filed on October 31, 2007).
The details of this preliminary settlement can be found in the Form 8-K filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission on August 29, 2008.
Fastenal sells different types of industrial and construction supplies in the following product categories: threaded fasteners and miscellaneous supplies; tools; metal cutting tool blades and abrasives; fluid transfer components and accessories for hydraulic and pneumatic power; material handling; storage and packaging products; janitorial, chemical and paint products; electrical supplies; welding supplies; safety supplies; and metals, alloys and materials.
As of July 31, 2008, Fastenal operated 2,289 stores in the United States (all 50 states), Canada (all provinces), Puerto Rico (multiple), Mexico (14 states), Singapore (one location), Netherlands (one location), and China (one location) selling to the general public. The Company operates 13 distribution centers located in Minnesota, Indiana, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Texas, Georgia, Washington, California, Utah, North Carolina, Kansas, Ontario, Canada, and Nuevo Leon, Mexico.
Additional information regarding Fastenal Company is available on the Fastenal Company World Wide Web site at . FAST-G
www.fastenal.com


