FILE:FAST/FAST-8K-20081002153017.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 2, 2008, Fastenal Company (the "Company") issued a press release with comments on September 2008 trends. A copy of that press release is attached as an exhibit to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The following is furnished herewith:
 
99.1 Press release of Fastenal Company dated October 2, 2008
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: October 2, 2008
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
RELEASE DATE: October 2, 2008
FASTENAL COMPANY RELEASES COMMENTS ON SEPTEMBER 2008 TRENDS
The Fastenal Company of Winona, MN (NASDAQ Symbol FAST) released comments on September 2008 trends.
We plan to release our third quarter earnings on Monday, October 13, 2008. We typically remain silent on information about the final month of the quarter until the earnings release; however, given the sharp drop in share price experienced by a number of industrial stocks on Wednesday, October 1
st
, and given the unexpected drop in the ISM index
1
as reported on Wednesday, October 1
st
we decided to release some commentary on trends for our shareholders.
Commentary:
 
 
 
As indicated above, it is not our practice to release piecemeal financial information at quarter end. However, given the sharp movement in our stock price, we felt a need to share some preliminary trend information with our long-term shareholder base.
 
1
ISM index  index published by the Institute for Supply Management ()
http://www.ism.ws/
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION:
Additional information regarding certain Fastenal Company statistics for the current quarter is available on the Fastenal Company World Wide Web site at . The Company discloses sales and store information on a monthly basis. This information is posted at on the third business day following the end of the first two months of a quarter and is typically posted simultaneous with the earnings release following the third month of a quarter. A discussion of other risks and uncertainties is included in the Company's 2007 annual report on Form 10-K under the section captioned "Risk Factors" and the Company's 2007 annual report to shareholders under the section captioned "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations". FAST-S
www.fastenal.com
www.fastenal.com
 


