FILE:FAST/FAST-8K-20090120112220.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Board of Directors of the Company amended the Company's Restated By-laws (the "By-laws"), effective as of January 19, 2009, to increase the maximum size of the board from nine (9) directors to twelve (12) directors.
The foregoing description of the amendment to the By-laws is qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the amendment, which is filed herewith as Exhibit 3.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
On January 19, 2009, Fastenal Company (the "Registrant") issued a press release announcing that on January 19, 2009 its Board of Directors declared a dividend of $.35 per share to be paid in cash on February 27, 2009 to shareholders of record at the close of business on February 16, 2009. A copy of that press release is attached as an exhibit to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The following is furnished herewith:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: January 19, 2009
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
Section 2 of Article III of the Restated By-laws of the Company has been amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Section 2. NUMBER AND QUALIFICATIONS. The Board shall consist of not less than five (5) nor more than twelve (12) persons. The number of directors to be elected shall be fixed from time to time by the Board of Directors, and shall be stated in the notice of the meeting at which directors are to be elected.

Exhibit 99.1
FASTENAL COMPANY ANNOUNCES CASH DIVIDEND
RELEASE DATE: January 19, 2009
Contact: Jean DuBois, Executive Assistant / Investor Relations 507.454.5374
The Fastenal Company of Winona, MN (NASDAQ Symbol FAST) reported its Board of Directors declared a dividend of $.35 per share be paid in cash on February 27, 2009 to shareholders of record at the close of business on February 16, 2009. The Company expects that it will continue to pay a comparable semi-annual cash dividend in the foreseeable future, provided that any future determination as to payment of dividends will depend upon the financial condition and results of operations of the Company and such other factors as are deemed relevant by the Board of Directors.
Recent activity regarding dividends and stock repurchases are as follows:
 
All information reflects the 2-for-1 stock splits effected in the form of a stock dividend in each of 2002 and 2005.
Fastenal sells different types of industrial and construction supplies in the following product categories: threaded fasteners and miscellaneous supplies; tools; metal cutting tool blades and abrasives; fluid transfer components and accessories for hydraulic and pneumatic power; material handling; storage and packaging products; janitorial, chemical and paint products; electrical supplies; welding supplies; safety supplies; and metals, alloys and materials.
As of November 30, 2008, Fastenal operated 2,314 stores in the United States (all 50 states), Canada (all provinces), Puerto Rico (multiple), Mexico (14 states), Singapore (one location), Netherlands (one location), and China (one location) selling to the general public. The Company operates 14 distribution centers located in Minnesota, Indiana, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Texas, Georgia, Washington, California, Utah, North Carolina, Kansas, Ontario, Canada; Alberta, Canada; and Nuevo Leon, Mexico.
Additional information regarding Fastenal Company is available on the Fastenal Company World Wide Web site at www.fastenal.com.
This press release contains statements that are not historical in nature and that are intended to be, and are hereby identified as, "forward looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including a statement regarding expectations as to payment of a comparable semi-annual cash dividend in the foreseeable future. Any future determination as to payment of dividends will depend upon the financial condition and results of operations of the Company and such other factors as are deemed relevant by the Board of Directors. For example, a change in business needs including working capital and funding for acquisitions, or a change in tax law relating to dividends, could cause the Company to decide not to pay a dividend in the future. A discussion of other risks and uncertainties is included in the Company 2007 annual report on Form 10-K under the section captioned "Risk Factors" and the Company's 2007 annual and 2008 quarterly reports under the section captioned "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations". FAST-D


