FILE:FAST/FAST-8K-20110419171038.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.07 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
On April 19, 2011, Fastenal Company (the "Company") held its annual meeting of shareholders in Winona, Minnesota ("Annual Meeting"). As of the record date, there were a total of 147,430,712 shares of Common Stock outstanding and entitled to vote at the Annual Meeting. At the Annual Meeting, 134,628,998 shares of Common Stock were represented in person or by proxy; therefore, a quorum was present. The following is a brief description of each matter voted upon at the Annual Meeting and a statement of the number of votes cast for, against or withheld, and the number of abstentions with respect to each matter, as applicable.
 
 
There were 20,050,482 Broker Non-Votes.
Based on the votes set forth above, the foregoing persons were duly elected to serve as directors for a term expiring at the annual meeting of shareholders in 2012 or until their respective successors have been duly elected and qualified.
 
 
Based on the votes set forth above, the appointment of KPMG LLP as the independent registered public accounting firm of the Company to serve for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2011 was duly ratified by our shareholders.
 
There were 20,050,482 Broker Non-Votes.
Based on the votes set forth above, the resolution for the approval, on an advisory basis, of the compensation of certain of our executive officers received the required number of votes and was duly adopted by our shareholders.
 
 
There were 20,050,482 Broker Non-Votes.
Based on the votes set forth above, the choice of the shareholders with respect to the frequency with which shareholders of the Company should be entitled to have an advisory vote on executive compensation was every year'. In accordance with the results of the vote, the Board of Directors determined to follow the shareholders' recommendation and the Company will conduct an annual advisory vote on executive compensation.
Additional information regarding Fastenal Company is available on the Fastenal Company World Wide Web site at . FAST-G
www.fastenal.com
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


