ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS Except for historical information, this Report contains forward looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, including, among other things, statements regarding our anticipated costs and expenses and revenue mix. Forward looking statements include, among others, those statements including the words "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "believes" and similar language. Our actual results may differ significantly from those projected in the forward looking statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section "Business Risk Factors." You should carefully review the risks described in other documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Quarterly Reports on Form 10 Q that we will file in 2002. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. We undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to the forward looking statements or reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document. Overview VeriSign is a leading provider of digital trust services that enable Web site owners, enterprises, communications service providers, electronic commerce service providers and individuals to engage in secure digital commerce and communications. Our digital trust services include three core offerings: managed security and network services, registry and telecommunications services, and Web presence and trust services. Our core Web Trust service offerings were established as the cornerstone of the business in 1995 with the introduction of Web site digital certificates. Through our secure online infrastructure we sell our Web site digital certificates to online businesses, large enterprises, government agencies and other organizations. We also sell enterprise PKI services that allow organizations to leverage our trusted data processing infrastructure to develop and deploy customized digital certificate services for use by employees, customers and business partners. We market our digital trust services worldwide through multiple distribution channels, including Internet Web sites, our direct sales force, telesales operations, value added resellers, service providers and member organizations in our global affiliate network. A portion of our digital trust services revenues to date have been generated through sales from our Web site, but we intend to continue increasing our direct sales force, both in the United States and abroad, and to continue to expand our other distribution channels. We have established strategic relationships to enable widespread utilization of our digital trust services and to assure interoperability with a wide variety of applications and network equipment. We are organized into two customer focused lines of business: the Enterprise and Service Provider Division and the Mass Markets Division. The Enterprise and Service Provider Division delivers products and services to organizations that want to establish and deliver Internet based and telecommunications based services to customers in the business to consumer and business to business environments. The Mass Markets Division delivers products and services to small and medium size enterprises, as well as to consumers who wish to establish an online presence. 41 Acquisitions In February 2002, we completed our acquisition of H.O. Systems, Inc., a provider of billing and customer care solutions to wireless carriers. We paid approximately $350 million in cash for all of the outstanding stock of H.O. Systems. The total purchase price will be allocated to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and the liabilities assumed based on their respective fair values on the acquisition date. H.O. Systems results of operations will be included in the consolidated financial statements from its date of acquisition. In December 2001, we completed our acquisition of Illuminet Holdings, Inc., a provider of intelligent network and signaling services to telecommunications carriers. We issued approximately 30.6 million shares of our common stock for all of the outstanding shares of Illuminet and we also assumed all of Illuminets outstanding stock options. The acquisition has been accounted for as a purchase and, accordingly, the total purchase price of approximately $1.4 billion has been preliminarily allocated to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and the liabilities assumed based on their respective fair values on the acquisition date. Illuminets results of operations have been included in the consolidated financial statements from its date of acquisition. As a result of our acquisition of Illuminet, we recorded goodwill of approximately $1.0 billion and other intangible assets of approximately $281 million. The other intangible assets will be amortized over a four year period. In accordance with the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," goodwill related to this acquisition will not be amortized but will be tested for impairment at least annually. In addition, during 2001, we completed acquisitions of eleven privately held companies or acquired certain assets of privately held companies, which were not significant, either individually or in the aggregate. We issued approximately 939,000 shares of our common stock and paid approximately $151 million in cash in exchange for all of the outstanding shares of these companies. We also assumed certain of the companies outstanding stock options. Each of these transactions has been accounted for as a purchase and, accordingly, the results of the acquired companies operations are included in our consolidated financial statements from their respective dates of acquisition. As a result of these acquisitions, we recorded goodwill of approximately $252 million and unearned compensation of approximately $19 million. The unearned compensation will be amortized over the remaining vesting period for stock options assumed. In accordance with the provisions SFAS No. 142, goodwill related to acquisitions that were completed after June 30, 2001 will not be amortized but will be tested for impairment at least annually. Goodwill related to acquisitions that were completed prior to July 1, 2001 will be amortized based on a three year life until December 31, 2001 at which time amortization will cease and the remaining goodwill balance will be subject to testing for impairment at least annually. During 2000, we completed our acquisitions of THAWTE Consulting (Pty) Ltd and Signio, Inc. in February and our acquisition of Network Solutions, Inc. in June. In addition, we completed acquisitions of several other privately held companies, which were not significant, either individually or in the aggregate. Each of these transactions has been accounted for as a purchase and, accordingly, the results of the acquired companies operations are included in our consolidated financial statements from their respective dates of acquisition. Critical accounting policies The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires management 42 to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, doubtful accounts, investments and long lived assets. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily available from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our more significant judgments and estimates used in preparing our consolidated financial statements. Revenue recognition We derive revenues from three primary categories: Web presence and trust services, which include domain name registration services, Web trust services and payment services; managed security and network services, which include enterprise and affiliate PKI services and enterprise consulting services; and registry and telecommunications services, which include registry services, connectivity, intelligent networks, wireless and clearinghouse services. The revenue recognition policy for each of these areas is as follows: Domain name registration revenues consist primarily of registration fees charged to customers and registrars for domain name registration services. Revenues from the sale or renewal of domain name registration services are deferred and recognized ratably over the registration term, generally one to two years and up to ten years. Domain name registration renewal fees are estimated and recorded based on recent renewal and collection rates. Customers are notified of the expiration of their registration in advance, and we record the receivables for estimated renewal fees in the month preceding the anniversary date of their registration when we have a right to bill under the terms of domain name registration agreements. The variance between the actual collections and the rate used to estimate the renewal fees is reflected in the setting of prospective renewal rates. Fees for renewals and advance extensions to the existing term are deferred until the new incremental period commences. These fees are then recognized ratably over the new registration term, ranging from one to ten years. Revenues from the licensing of digital certificate technology and business process technology are derived from arrangements involving multiple elements including post contract customer support, training and other services. These licenses, which do not provide for right of return, are primarily perpetual licenses for which revenues are recognized up front once all criteria for revenue recognition have been met. Revenues from the sale or renewal of digital certificates are deferred and recognized ratably over the life of the digital certificate, generally 12 months. Revenues from the sale of OnSite managed services are deferred and recognized ratably over the term of the license, generally 12 to 36 months. Maintenance is bundled with OnSite licenses over the license term. We recognize revenues from issuances of digital certificates and business process licensing to VeriSign Affiliates in accordance with SOP 97 2, "Software Revenue Recognition," as amended by SOP 98 9, and generally recognize revenues when all of the following criteria are met as set forth in paragraph 8 of SOP 97 2: (1) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, (2) delivery has occurred, 43 (3) the fee is fixed or determinable and (4) collectibility is probable. We define each of these four criteria as follows: Persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists. It is our customary practice to have a written contract, which is signed by both the customer and us, or a purchase order from those customers who have previously negotiated a standard license arrangement with us. Delivery has occurred. Our software may be either physically or electronically delivered to the customer. Electronic delivery is deemed to have occurred upon download by the customer from an FTP server. If an arrangement includes undelivered products or services that are essential to the functionality of the delivered product, delivery is not considered to have occurred until these products or services are delivered. The fee is fixed or determinable. It is our policy to not provide customers the right to a refund of any portion of its license fees paid. We may agree to extended payment terms with a foreign customer based on local customs. Generally, at least 80% of the arrangement fees are due within one year or less. Arrangements with payment terms extending beyond these customary payment terms are considered not to be fixed or determinable, and revenues from such arrangements are recognized as payments become due and payable. Collectibility is probable. Collectibility is assessed on a customer by customer basis. We typically sell to customers for whom there is a history of successful collection. New customers are subjected to a credit review process that evaluates the customers financial position and ultimately their ability to pay. If we determine from the outset of an arrangement that collectibility is not probable based upon our credit review process, revenues are recognized as cash is collected. We allocate revenues on software arrangements involving multiple elements to each element based on the relative fair values of each element. Our determination of fair value of each element in multiple element arrangements is based on vendor specific objective evidence, or VSOE. We limit our assessment of VSOE for each element to the price charged when the same element is sold separately. We have analyzed all of the elements included in our multiple element arrangements and determined that we have sufficient VSOE to allocate revenues to maintenance and support service, professional services and training components of our perpetual license arrangements. We sell our professional services and training separately, and have established VSOE on this basis. VSOE for maintenance and support is determined based upon the customers annual renewal rates for these elements. Accordingly, assuming all other revenue recognition criteria are met, revenues from perpetual licenses are recognized upon delivery using the residual method in accordance with SOP 98 9. We recognize revenues from licenses in which maintenance is bundled with the software license, such as for digital certificates, digital certificate provisioning and OnSite managed services ratably over the license term of one to three years. Our consulting services generally are not essential to the functionality of the software. Our software products are fully functional upon delivery and implementation and do not require any significant modification or alteration. Customers purchase these consulting services to facilitate the adoption of our technology and dedicate personnel to participate in the services being performed, but they may also decide to use their own resources or appoint other consulting service organizations to provide these services. Software products are billed separately and independently from consulting services, which are generally billed on a time and materials or milestone achieved basis. We generally recognize revenues from consulting services as the services are performed. Revenues from consulting and training services are recognized using the percentage of completion method for fixed fee development arrangements or as the services are provided for time and materials 44 arrangements. Revenues from third party product sales are recognized when title to the products sold passes to the customer. Our shipping terms generally dictate that the passage of title occurs upon shipment of the products to the customer. Revenues from payment services primarily consist of a set up fee and a monthly service fee for the transaction processing services. In accordance with SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin ("SAB") No. 101, "Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements," revenues from the set up fee are deferred and recognized ratably over the period that the fees are earned. Revenues from the service fees are recognized ratably over the periods in which the services are provided. Advance customer deposits received are deferred and allocated ratably to revenue over the periods the services are provided. Revenues from telecommunications services are comprised of network connectivity revenues and intelligent network services revenues. Network connectivity revenues are derived from establishing and maintaining connection to our SS7 network and trunk signaling services. Revenues from network connectivity consist primarily of monthly recurring fees, and trunk signaling service revenues are charged monthly based on the number of switches to which a customer signals. The initial connection fee and related costs are deferred and recognized over the term of the arrangement. Intelligent network services, which include calling card validation, local number portability, wireless services, toll free database access and caller identification are derived primarily from database administration and database query services and are charged on a per use or per query basis. Prepaid wireless account management services and unregistered wireless roaming services are based on the revenue we retain and recognized in the period in which we process such calls on a per minute or per call basis. Clearinghouse services revenues are derived primarily from serving as a distribution and collection point for billing information and payment collection for services provided by one carrier to customers billed by another. Clearinghouse revenues are earned based on the number of messages processed. On occasion, we have purchased goods or services for our operations from organizations such as IBM, Oracle, Phoenix Technologies and Infospace at or about the same time that we licensed our software to these organizations. These transactions are recorded at terms we consider to be fair value. For these reciprocal arrangements, we consider Accounting Principles Board ("ABP") Opinion No. 29, "Accounting for Nonmonetary Transactions," and Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") Issue No. 01 02, "Interpretation of APB Opinion No. 29," to determine whether the arrangement is a monetary or nonmonetary transaction. Transactions involving the exchange of boot representing 25% or greater of the fair value of the reciprocal arrangement are considered monetary transactions within the context of APB Opinion No. 29 and EITF Issue No. 01 02. Monetary transactions and nonmonetary transactions that represent the culmination of an earnings process are recorded at the fair value of the products delivered or products or services received, whichever is more readily determinable, providing the fair values are determinable within reasonable limits. In determining the fair values, we consider the recent history of cash sales of the same products or services in similar sized transactions. Revenues from such transactions may be recognized over a period of time as the products or services are received. For nonmonetary reciprocal arrangements that do not represent the culmination of the earnings process, the exchange is recorded based on the carrying value of the products delivered, which is generally zero. In 2001, we recognized revenues under reciprocal arrangements of approximately $37.5 million, of which $27.0 million involved nonmonetary transactions, as defined above. We did not recognize any revenues under reciprocal arrangements as defined above in 2000 and 1999. 45 Allowance for doubtful accounts We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. We regularly review the adequacy of our accounts receivable allowance after considering the size of the accounts receivable balance, each customers expected ability to pay and our collection history with each customer. We review significant invoices that are past due to determine if an allowance is appropriate based on the risk category using the factors described above. In addition, we maintain a general reserve for all invoices by applying a percentage based on the age category. We also monitor our accounts receivable for any build up of concentration to any one customer, industry or geographic region. To date our receivables have not had any particular concentrations that, if not collected, would have a significant impact on our operating income. We require all acquired companies to adopt our credit policies. The allowance for doubtful accounts represents our best estimate, but changes in circumstances relating to accounts receivable may result in a requirement for additional allowances in the future. Investments We invest in debt and equity securities of technology companies for business and strategic purposes. Some of these companies are publicly traded and have highly volatile share prices. However, in most instances, these investments are in the form of equity and debt securities of private companies for which there is no public market. These companies are typically in the early stage of development and may be expected to incur substantial losses. Therefore, these companies may never become publicly traded companies. Even if they do, an active trading market for their securities may never develop and we may never realize any return on these investments. Further, if these companies are not successful, we could incur charges related to write downs or write offs of these types of assets. We review our marketable equity holdings in publicly traded companies on a regular basis to determine if any security has experienced an other than temporary decline in fair value. We consider the investee companys cash position, earnings and revenue outlook, stock price performance over the past six months, liquidity and management ownership, among other factors, in our review. If we determine that an other than temporary decline exists in a marketable equity security, we write down the investment to its market value and record the related write down as an investment loss in our consolidated statements of operations. For non public companies, we regularly review the assumptions underlying the operating performance and cash flow forecasts based on information requested from these privately held companies. Generally, this information may be more limited, may not be as timely and may be less accurate than information available from publicly traded companies. Assessing each investments carrying value requires significant judgment by management. If we determine that an other than temporary decline exists in a non public equity security, we write down the investment to its fair value and record the related write down as an investment loss in our consolidated statements of operations. Generally, if cash balances are insufficient to sustain the companys operations for a six month period, we consider the decline in fair value to be other than temporary. During 2001, we determined that the decline in value of certain of our public and non public equity investments was other than temporary and recorded a write down of these investments totaling $89.1 million. Long lived assets Our long lived assets consist primarily of goodwill and other intangible assets and property and equipment. We review long lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such an asset may not be recoverable. Such events or circumstances 46 include, but are not limited to, a significant decrease in the fair value of the underlying business, a significant decrease in the benefits realized from the acquired business, difficulty and delays in integrating the business or a significant change in the operations of the acquired business. Recoverability of long lived assets is measured by comparison of the carrying amount to estimated future undiscounted net cash flows the assets are expected to generate. Those cash flows include an estimated terminal value based on a hypothetical sale of an acquisition at the end of its goodwill amortization period. Estimating these cash flows and terminal values requires management to make judgments about the growth in demand for our services, sustainability of gross margins, our ability to integrate acquired companies and achieve economies of scale, and valuation multiples required by investors or buyers. Changes in these estimates could require us to further write down the carrying amount of our long lived assets. If assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of the long lived asset exceeds its fair value. Effective January 1, 2002, we will assess impairment of goodwill in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 142. The provisions of SFAS No. 142 require that a two step test be performed. First, the fair value of each of our reporting units will be compared to its carrying value. If the fair value exceeds the carrying value, goodwill is not impaired and no further testing is performed. If the carrying value exceeds the fair value, then the implied fair value of the reporting units goodwill must be determined and compared to the carrying value of the goodwill. If the carrying value of a reporting units goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, then an impairment loss equal to the difference will be recorded. Results of Operations We have experienced substantial net losses in the past substantially due to the charges we incurred for the amortization and write down of acquired goodwill and other intangible assets related to our acquisitions. As of December 31, 2001, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $16.5 billion, primarily due to the amortization and write down of goodwill and other intangible assets of approximately $16.8 billion related to our acquisitions. In accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 142, goodwill will no longer be amortized to earnings commencing January 1, 2002. Instead goodwill will be reviewed for impairment as of January 1, 2002 and annually thereafter, or more often if circumstances indicate that an impairment may have occurred. Amortization of other intangible assets is expected to be approximately $84 million per quarter in 2002, including the impact of all acquisitions through December 31, 2001, excluding the impact of H.O. Systems and assuming no other acquisitions or impairment charges. We accounted for all of our acquisitions in 2000 and 2001 as purchase business combinations. Accordingly, the acquired companies revenues, costs and expenses have been included in our results of operations beginning with their dates of acquisition. As a result of our acquisitions of THAWTE and Signio in February 2000, Network Solutions in June 2000 and Illuminet in December 2001, comparisons of revenues, costs and expenses for the year ended December 31, 2001 to the years ended December 31, 2000 and 1999 may not be relevant, as the businesses of the combined company were not equivalent. 47 Revenues A comparison of revenues for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999 is presented below. 2001 Change 2000 Change 1999 (Dollars in thousands) Web presence and trust services.............. $555,061 96% $282,634 * Subtotal Mass Market Division............. 555,061 282,634 Managed security and network services........ 298,000 101% 147,984 * Registry and telecommunications services..... 130,503 196% 44,148 * Subtotal Enterprise and Service Provider Division.................................. 428,503 192,132 Total revenues............................... $983,564 107% $474,766 460% $84,776 * In 1999, we derived all of our revenues from our Enterprise Services under one reportable segment. Revenues increased significantly in 2001 from 2000 for both our Enterprise and Service Provider Division and our Mass Markets Division. The increases were primarily due to the acquisition of Network Solutions in June 2000. Sales of authentication services, particularly Web site digital certificates and enterprise and affiliate PKI services, also increased. In addition, we expanded the VeriSign Trust Network of worldwide affiliates and saw increased demand for our training and consulting services. The increase in revenues in 2000 from 1999 is primarily due to the acquisitions of THAWTE, Signio and Network Solutions. In addition, we increased sales of our authentication services, particularly our Web site digital certificates and enterprise and affiliate PKI services, expanded our international affiliate network and delivered more training and consulting services. In 2001, we derived 3.8% of our total revenues from reciprocal arrangements. We derived no revenues from customers from reciprocal arrangements in 2000 and 1999. Typically in these relationships, under separate agreements, we sell our products and services to a company and that company sells to us their products and services. We enter into these arrangements for strategic business purposes and the goods and services we receive in exchange are those we would have purchased in non reciprocal arrangements. These arrangements are independent relationships and are not terminable unless the terms of the agreements are violated. We derived 6.5% in 2001, 2.8% in 2000 and 1.1% in 1999 of our total revenues from customers with whom we have participated in a private equity round of financing, including several of the VeriSign Affiliates as well as various technology companies in a variety of related market areas. Typically in these relationships, under separate agreements, we sell our products and services to a company and, under a separate agreement, participate with other investors in a private equity round financing of the company. We typically make our investments with others where our investment is less than 50% of the total financing round. Our policy is not to recognize revenue in excess of other investors financing of the company. These arrangements are independent relationships and are not terminable unless the terms of the agreements are violated. Enterprise and Service Provider Division Enterprise and Service Provider Division revenues from external customers were $428.5 million in 2001, $192.1 million in 2000 and $84.8 million in 1999. 48 In 2001, revenues from the managed security and network services product line increased approximately $150 million, to $298 million in 2001 from $148 million in 2000. The revenue increase was primarily due to increases in OnSite services sold, software licenses sold to the 13 new affiliate service providers, an increase in royalties earned from existing affiliates, and an overall increase in the volume of consulting services that included the resale of third party products. Third party software and hardware sales are generally made at lower margins than our other enterprise and mass market sales. In 2001, revenues from registry and telecommunications services increased approximately $86 million, to $131 million in 2001 from $44 million in 2000. This increase was primarily driven by the inclusion of a full year of Registry services revenue compared to approximately seven months in 2000, as a result of the acquisition of Network Solutions in June 2000. Revenues related to outsourced managed registry services also increased. The VeriSign Global Registry Services group managed approximately 28.8 million domain names at December 31, 2001 in the active zone file for all domain names ending in .com, .net and .org. The Global Registry Services group also processed the renewal, extension or transfer of 8.9 million domain names during 2001, bringing the total number of paid domain name transactions during 2001 to 22.0 million. Mass Market Division Mass Market Division revenues from external customers were $555.1 million in 2001, $282.6 million in 2000 and zero in 1999. In 2001, the increase in revenues in the Mass Market Division was primarily due to the inclusion of a full year of revenues from Web Presence Services compared to approximately seven months in 2000 as a result of the acquisition of Network Solutions in June 2000. During 2001, we added approximately 4.1 million new domain names and renewed or extended an additional 4.9 million domain names bringing the total active domain names under management by the Registrar to approximately 13.6 million at December 31, 2001, which does not include approximately 1.7 million domain names past their anniversary dates that have been deactivated from the zone files but not yet deleted from the Web presence services WHOIS database. In 2000, the demand for new domain name registrations in our Web presence business increased substantially as a result of our promotional programs and from registrations by entities who registered domain names with the hopes of reselling them. Many of those promotional and speculator domain names have not been renewed and have already been deactivated from the active zone file maintained by the VeriSign Global Registry. In addition, due to the competitive market in domain names, we have experienced moderate price declines in sales prices for domain names. We expect that this situation will continue. Our Mass Markets Division and our Enterprise and Service Provider Division issued approximately 366,000 new and renewed Web site digital certificates in 2001 compared to 274,000 in 2000 and 112,000 in 1999. The total installed base was over 366,000 certificates at December 31, 2001. In particular, the Mass Markets Division Web site certificate base increased by 50,000 installed certificates in 2001 to a total of 260,000 certificates at December 31, 2001. The increase in sales of Web site digital certificates in 2001 contributed approximately $25 million to the increase in revenues. In addition, due to increased competition in the Web trust services market, we have experienced moderate pricing pressure for our services. We expect that this pricing pressure will continue. 49 International revenues Revenues from international subsidiaries and VeriSign Affiliates accounted for 13% of total revenues in 2001, 14% in 2000 and 27% in 1999. The percentage decrease in revenues from international subsidiaries and VeriSign Affiliates in 2001 compared to 2000 and 1999 was primarily related to the acquisition in June 2000 of Network Solutions, whose revenues are primarily attributable to U.S. sources. This was partially offset by additional revenues from international subsidiaries and VeriSign Affiliates in 2001 related to an increase in the number of VeriSign Affiliates in the VeriSign Trust Network combined with other activities to expand our presence in foreign markets. In 1998, we began our international affiliate program under which we signed agreements with local telecommunications companies, financial institutions and others to promote, sell and distribute our PKI services in international markets around the world. These VeriSign Affiliates typically require significant capital development, the cost of which is borne by the affiliate. Our strategy from time to time also includes investing in certain affiliates in strategic markets that represent advantageous economic opportunities for a minority interest of less than 20%. As a result, we have invested in several international affiliates in 2001 and prior years. Revenues from VeriSign Affiliates in which we have invested accounted for 4.5% of total revenues in 2001, 1.5% in 2000 and 1.1% in 1999. Costs and Expenses Cost of revenues Cost of revenues consists primarily of costs related to providing digital certificate enrollment and issuance services, payment services, domain name registration services, customer support and training, consulting and development services and costs of facilities and computer equipment used in these activities. In addition, with respect to our digital certificate services, cost of revenues also includes fees paid to third parties to verify certificate applicants identities, insurance premiums for our service warranty plan, errors and omission insurance and the cost of software and hardware resold to customers. A comparison of cost of revenues for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999 is presented below. 2001 Change 2000 Change 1999 (Dollars in thousands) Cost of revenues................................. $343,721 111% $163,049 411% $31,898 Percentage of revenues........................... 35% 34% 38% Growth of revenues was the primary factor in the increase of cost of revenues in 2001 from 2000 and in 2000 from 1999. We hired more employees to support the growth of demand for our products and services and to support the growth of our consulting and training services. We incurred increased expenses for access to third party databases to verify digital certificate applicants identities, increased customer service costs related to our larger customer base and increased expenses related to the cost of hardware and software products resold to customers as part of our consulting business. We anticipate that cost of revenues will continue to increase in absolute dollars as a result of continued growth in all of our lines of business. Our acquisitions of THAWTE, Signio and Network Solutions have resulted in an increase in our cost of revenues since their acquisitions in 2000. Our recent acquisitions of Illuminet in December 2001 and H.O. Systems in February 2002 will further increase the dollar amount of our cost of revenues. Future 50 acquisitions, further expansion into international markets and introduction of new products will result in additional increases in cost of revenues, due to the hiring of additional personnel and related expenses and other factors. Cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues increased slightly in 2001 from 2000, primarily due to the cost structure of the Network Solutions product mix and the increase in the volume of third party hardware and software sales, which was partially offset by economies of scale associated with the growth in recurring revenues from existing customers. The decrease in 2000 from 1999 was primarily a result of the continued realization of economies of scale from our technology infrastructure and the efficiency gains in the certificate enrollment and issuance process. Certain of our services, such as consulting and training, require greater initial personnel involvement and therefore have higher costs than other types of services. In addition, revenues derived from our authentication services, domain name registration services, registry services, payment services and our telecommunications services as a result of our recent acquisition of Illuminet each have different cost structures. As a result, we anticipate that cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues will increase in the near term. Sales and marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of costs related to sales and marketing, and policy activities. These expenses include salaries, sales commissions and other personnel related expenses, travel and related expenses, trade shows, costs of lead generation, costs of computer and communications equipment and support services, facilities costs, consulting fees and costs of marketing programs, such as Internet, television, radio and print advertising. A comparison of sales and marketing expenses for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999 is presented below. 2001 Change 2000 Change 1999 (Dollars in thousands) Sales and marketing.................... $259,585 55% $167,148 390% $34,145 Percentage of revenues................. 26% 35% 40% The Network Solutions acquisition was the primary reason for the increase in sales and marketing expenses in 2001 from 2000 as well as in 2000 as compared to 1999. The Mass Markets Division incurs expenses promoting the value of the .com, .net and .org. Web addresses as well as value added services including Web site design tools and other enhanced service offerings. The remainder of the increase in both periods was driven by lead and demand generation activities in our enterprise and affiliate PKI businesses, expansion of our sales force and an increase in international sales expenses. The increase in 2000 from 1999 also reflects the effect of sales and marketing expenses from THAWTE and Signio. While the absolute dollar spending increased for sales and marketing expenses, we continue to realize a decline in sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of revenues over the three year period. This is primarily due to the increase in recurring revenues from existing customers, which tend to have lower retention costs and the increase in the productivity of our direct and inside sales forces. However, we cannot forecast that these sales and marketing expenses will continue to decline as a percentage of revenues. 51 We expect sales and marketing expenses to continue to increase on an absolute dollar basis in the future, primarily related to an expanded sales force, expanded marketing and demand generation activities, development and enhancement of partner and distribution channels and promotional activities for Web presence products and services. Research and development Research and development expenses consist primarily of costs related to research and development personnel, including salaries and other personnel related expenses, consulting fees and the costs of facilities, computer and communications equipment and support services used in service and technology development. A comparison of research and development expenses for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999 is presented below. 2001 Change 2000 Change 1999 (Dollars in thousands) Research and development $78,134 89% $41,256 210% $13,303 Percentage of revenues.. 8% 9% 16% Research and development expenses increased in absolute dollars in 2001 from 2000 and in 2000 from 1999 primarily due to the acquisition of Network Solutions in June 2000. The increases in both periods relate to the development and enhancement of new registry products related to multilingual domain names and managed domain name system services. In addition, we continued to invest in the design, testing and deployment of, and technical support for our expanded digital trust service offerings and technology. We also expanded our engineering staff and incurred related costs required to support our continued emphasis on developing new products and services as well as enhancing existing products and services. Some of the new products and services developed during 2001 include our Entitlement Management Services, Authentication Service Bureau and Digital Trust Services platform. The decrease in research and development expenses as a percentage of revenues in 2001 from 2000 and in 2000 from 1999 is largely due to the fact that revenues increased faster than research and development expenses in these periods. We expect research and development expenses as a percentage of revenues to decline in future periods. We believe that timely development of new and enhanced enterprise services, payment services, Web presence services and other technologies are necessary to maintain our position in the marketplace. Accordingly, we intend to continue to recruit experienced research and development personnel and to make other investments in research and development. As a result, we expect research and development expenses will continue to increase in absolute dollars. To date, we have expensed all research and development expenditures as incurred. General and administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries and other personnel related expenses for our executive, administrative, legal, finance and human resources personnel, facilities and computer and communications equipment, management information systems, support services, professional services fees and bad debt expense. 52 A comparison of general and administrative expenses for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999 is presented below. 2001 Change 2000 Change 1999 (Dollars in thousands) General and administrative $143,297 136% $60,672 594% $8,740 Percentage of revenues.... 15% 13% 10% The increase in general and administrative expenses in 2001 from 2000 and in 2000 over 1999 was primarily related to the acquisition of Network Solutions in June 2000. Expenses also increased in 2001 from 2000, as well as in 2000 from 1999, due to additional staffing levels required to manage and support our expanded operations, the implementation of additional management information systems and the expansion of our corporate headquarters. In addition, our bad debt expense increased to $26.9 million in 2001 from $5.8 million in 2000 and $.9 million in 1999, primarily as a result of increased revenues and deterioration in the overall economy in 2001. The increase in general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues in 2001 from 2000 and in 2000 from 1999 is primarily due to incremental expenses related to integrating our acquisitions and different cost structures of those acquisitions. We anticipate that general and administrative expenses will continue to increase on an absolute dollar basis in the future as we expand our administrative and executive staff, add infrastructure, expand facilities and assimilate acquired technologies and businesses. Write off of acquired in process research and development The portion of the Network Solutions purchase price allocated to in process research and development, or IPR&D, was $54 million and was expensed during the quarter ended June 30, 2000. Network Solutions IPR&D efforts focused on significant and substantial improvements and upgrades to its shared registration system, or SRS. The SRS is the system that provides a shared registration interface to the ICANN accredited and licensed registrars into the .com, .net, and .org top level domain, or TLD, name registry. It is through this system that registrars from all over the world are able to register domain names with the central database. Given the high demand on the SRS, it was in need of improvements and upgrades in the area of scalability, security, non English language capability and next generation resource provisioning protocol. As of the acquisition date, Network Solutions was in the process of developing technology that would add substantial functionality and features to the SRS. The IPR&D had not yet reached technological feasibility and had no alternative uses. The technological feasibility of the in process development efforts is established when the enterprise has completed all planning, designing, coding, and testing activities that are necessary to establish that the technology can be utilized to meet its design specifications including functions, features, and technical performance requirements. The development efforts related to upgrades and improvements in the SRS and other systems were completed in the first quarter of 2001. The fair value assigned to IPR&D was estimated by discounting, to present value, the cash flows attributable to the technology once it reached technological feasibility. A discount rate of 22% was used to estimate the present value of cash flows. The value assigned to IPR&D was the amount attributable to the efforts of Network Solutions up to the time of acquisition. This amount was estimated through application of the "stage of completion" calculation by multiplying the estimated present value of future cash flows, 53 excluding costs of completion, by the percentage of completion of the purchased research and development project at the time of acquisition. Amortization and write down of goodwill and other intangible assets During 2000, we completed several acquisitions including THAWTE, Signio and Network Solutions. These acquisitions resulted in the recording of goodwill and other intangible assets in the amount of $21.3 billion. Our policy is to assess the recoverability of goodwill using estimated undiscounted cash flows. Those cash flows include an estimated terminal value based on a hypothetical sale of an acquisition at the end of its goodwill amortization period. Though the acquisitions have been predominantly performing at or above expectations, market conditions and attendant multiples used to estimate terminal values have continued to remain depressed. At June 30, 2000, the NASDAQ market index was at 3,966 points and had decreased 1,805 points, or 46%, to 2,161 points at June 30, 2001. This decline affected the analysis used to assess the recoverability of goodwill. For goodwill associated with THAWTE and Network Solutions, fair value was determined based on future operating cash flows over the remaining amortization period of the goodwill. The terminal values were estimated based on the relationship of the value of the VeriSign stock issued at the acquisition date to the value of VeriSigns stock over the three month period preceding the valuation. For Signio and the other acquisitions, fair value was determined through the use of recent indicators of fair value such as comparable sales and multiples derived from recent acquisition activities. As a result, management recorded an impairment charge in the quarter ended June 30, 2001, in the amount of $9.9 billion. Since the most significant acquisitions were completed by issuing shares of our common stock, the impairment should be considered a non cash charge. The amortization and write down of goodwill and other intangible assets was approximately $13.6 billion in 2001 compared to $3.2 billion in 2000. In addition to the $9.9 billion write down discussed above, the increase was primarily related to our purchase acquisitions during 2000, which accounted for approximately $21.3 billion of additional goodwill and other intangible assets. In accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 142, goodwill will no longer be amortized to earnings commencing January 1, 2002. Instead goodwill will be reviewed for impairment annually, or more often if circumstances indicate that an impairment may have occurred. Amortization of other intangible assets is expected to be approximately $84 million per quarter thereafter, including the impact of all acquisitions through December 31, 2001, but excluding the impact of H.O. Systems and assuming no other acquisitions or impairment charges. Other income (expense), net Other income (expense), net, consists primarily of interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents and short term and long term investments, gains and losses on the sale or write down of equity investments, and the net effect of foreign currency transaction gains and losses. A comparison of other income for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999 is presented below. 2001 Change 2000 Change 1999 (Dollars in thousands) Other income (expense)................. $(22,469) (126)% $86,169 1240% $6,429 Percentage of revenues................. (2)% 18% 8% 54 Other (expense), net, in 2001 was primarily comprised of the write down of investments totaling $89.1 million on certain public and non public equity security investments, partially offset by $66.7 million of interest and other income. Other income, net, in 2000 consisted primarily of a realized gain of $32.6 million from the sale of shares of Keynote Systems, Inc., and interest and other income of $53.6 million. In 2001, we determined that the decline in value of certain of our public and non public equity securities investments was other than temporary and we recorded a write down of these investments totaling $89.1 million. We had previously valued certain of these investments at the then fair market value as part of the Network Solutions acquisition. We may from time to time recognize losses or gains from the sales, write downs or write offs of our equity investments. Our cash and investments base increased significantly through the acquisition of Network Solutions in June 2000; however, our invested balances produced lower returns due to lower market interest rates in 2001 as compared to 2000. The increase in 2000 from 1999 is primarily due to increased earnings on funds invested. Investments increased in part due to our net proceeds of $121.4 million generated from the follow on public offering of our common stock in January 1999 and the investment of cash generated from operations. Our investment base was also significantly increased through the acquisition of Network Solutions, which added over $925 million of cash and investments. In 2000, we also realized a $32.6 million gain from the sale of shares of Keynote Systems, Inc. Income tax benefit In 2001, we recorded a $77.9 million tax benefit. The benefit is due to the realization of current net operating losses and certain current deferred tax assets. We have not provided a benefit for the long term deferred tax assets due to the uncertainty of their being realized. As of December 31, 2001, we had federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $492.4 million related to stock compensation deductions. We also had state net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $313.8 million related to stock compensation deductions. We had no net operating loss carryforwards for federal or state income tax purposes from operations. If we are not able to use them, the federal net operating loss carryforwards will expire in 2010 through 2021 and the state net operating loss carryforwards will expire in 2004 through 2021. In addition, we had available for carryover research and experimentation tax credits for federal income tax purposes of approximately $8.9 million and for state income tax purposes of approximately $5.2 million. The federal research and experimentation tax credits will expire, if not utilized, in 2010 through 2021. State research and experimental tax credits carry forward indefinitely until utilized. The Tax Reform Act of 1986 imposes substantial restrictions on the utilization of net operating losses and tax credits in the event of a corporations ownership change, as defined in the Internal Revenue Code. Our ability to utilize net operating loss carryforwards may be limited as a result of such ownership change. We do not anticipate that any material limitation exists on our ability to use our carryforwards and credits. Our accounting for deferred taxes under SFAS No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes," involves the evaluation of a number of factors concerning the realizability of our deferred tax assets. In concluding that a valuation allowance was required to be applied to certain deferred tax assets, we considered such factors as our history of operating losses, our expected current year taxable income (exclusive of stock compensation deductions), our uncertainty as to the projected long term operating results, and the nature of our deferred tax assets. Although our operating plans assume taxable and operating income in future periods, our evaluation of all of the available evidence in assessing the realizability of the noncurrent deferred tax assets indicated that such plans were not considered sufficient to overcome the available negative evidence. The possible future reversal of the valuation allowance will result in future income statement benefit to the extent the valuation allowance was applied to deferred tax assets generated through ongoing operations. To the extent the valuation allowance relates to deferred tax assets generated through 55 stock compensation deductions, the possible future reversal of such valuation allowance will result in a credit to additional paid in capital and will not result in future income statement benefit. See Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Minority Interest in Net (Income) Loss of Subsidiary Minority interest in the net (income) loss of VeriSign Japan K.K. was $(.6) million in 2001, $(1.3) million in 2000 and $.8 million in 1999. The year to year changes are primarily due to VeriSign Japans increased revenues as compared to the prior years. As the VeriSign Japan business continues to develop and evolve, we expect that the minority interest in net (income) loss of subsidiary will fluctuate. We Disclose Pro Forma Financial Information We prepare and release quarterly unaudited financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). We also disclose and discuss certain pro forma financial information in the related earnings release and investor conference call. Our pro forma financial information does not include the amortization and write down of goodwill and intangible assets related to acquisitions, stock based compensation charges related to acquisitions, write down of investments and benefit for income taxes. We believe the disclosure of the pro forma financial information helps investors more meaningfully evaluate the results of our ongoing operations. However, we urge investors to carefully review the GAAP financial information included as part of our Quarterly Reports on Form 10 Q, our Annual Reports on Form 10 K, and our quarterly earnings releases and compare that GAAP financial information with the pro forma financial results disclosed in our quarterly earnings releases and investor calls. Liquidity and Capital Resources 2001 2000 Change (Dollars in thousands) Cash, cash equivalents and short term investments.......................... $ 726,697 $ 1,026,275 (29)% Working capital........................ $ 256,714 $ 520,953 (51)% Stockholders equity................... $6,506,074 $18,470,608 (65)% At December 31, 2001, our principal source of liquidity was $726.7 million of cash, cash equivalents and short term investments, consisting principally of commercial paper, medium term corporate notes, corporate bonds and notes, market auction securities, U.S. government and agency securities and money market funds. In addition, we hold $201.8 million of long term investments, consisting primarily of debt and equity securities of non public companies, which have no ready market. Net cash provided by operating activities was $227.5 million in 2001, $192.0 million in 2000 and $14.7 million in 1999. The increase was primarily due to an overall increase in net income after adjustments for non cash items such as amortization and the write down of goodwill and other intangible assets, depreciation of property and equipment and the write down of certain investments, as well as higher levels of deferred revenue. The increase in cash provided by operating activities was partially offset by increases in deferred income taxes and accounts receivable. Net cash used in investing activities was $389.1 million in 2001, primarily as a result of $1.3 billion used for purchases of investments, which were offset by proceeds of $1.4 billion from sales and maturities of investments, $380.3 million used for purchases of property and equipment, including approximately $285 million used for the purchase of the land and buildings for our corporate headquarters in California, and $52.6 million paid, net of cash acquired, for business combinations. Net cash provided by investing activities was $124.0 million in 2000, primarily as a result of the cash acquired in our acquisitions, partially 56 offset by increased purchases of short and long term investments, and costs relating to our acquisitions. In 1999, net cash used in investing activities of $103.2 million was primarily related to net purchases of investments. Capital expenditures for property and equipment totaled $380.3 million in 2001, $58.8 million in 2000 and $6.0 million in 1999. Our planned capital expenditures for 2002 are approximately $140 million to $150 million, primarily for computer and communications equipment and leasehold improvements. As of December 31, 2001, we also had commitments under noncancelable operating leases for our facilities for various terms through 2011. See Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Net cash provided by financing activities was $10.8 million in 2001, $73.5 million in 2000 and $136.2 million in 1999. In 2001 and 2000, cash was provided primarily from common stock issuances as a result of stock option exercises. In 2001, these proceeds were partially offset by the use of approximately $70 million to repurchase shares of our common stock. In 1999, we received net cash proceeds of $121.4 million from the public offering of our stock. In April 2001, the Board authorized the use of up to $350 million to repurchase shares of our common stock on the open market, or in negotiated or block trades. During 2001, we repurchased approximately 1,650,000 shares at a cost of approximately $70 million. At December 31, 2001, approximately $280 million remained available for future purchases under this program. We believe our existing cash, cash equivalents and short term investments and operating cash flows, will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months. An increase in the number of significant acquisitions or investments to be funded with cash may require us to raise additional funds through public or private financing, strategic relationships or other arrangements. This additional funding, if needed, might not be available on terms attractive to us, or at all. Failure to raise capital when needed could materially harm our business. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity securities, the percentage of our stock owned by our then current stockholders will be reduced. Furthermore, these equity securities might have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock. Our Illuminet subsidiary entered into an agreement with Bank of America effective June 1, 2000 to provide a line of credit and a capital expenditure loan facility. The line of credit is a $10.0 million unsecured loan that expires June 1, 2002, with a one year extension available. The capital expenditure loan facility is a $15 million unsecured loan with a five year term. No amounts were outstanding under the line of credit and $800,000 was outstanding under the capital expenditure facility at December 31, 2001. Amounts drawn under these agreements must be made by Illuminet. We currently have no plans to make any borrowings under this agreement. In October 2001, we filed a shelf registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission to offer an indeterminate number of shares of common stock that may be issued at various times and at indeterminate prices, with a total public offering price not to exceed $750 million. To date, no shares have been issued under this registration statement. In December 2001, we signed a master contract with IBM under which we committed to purchase $30 million of IBM technology over the next three years. In February 2002, we completed our acquisition of H.O. Systems, Inc., a provider of billing and customer care solutions to wireless carriers. We used approximately $350 million in cash for this acquisition. 57 Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued SFAS No. 141, "Business Combinations" and SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets." SFAS No. 141 requires that all business combinations be accounted for under the purchase method for business combinations initiated after June 30, 2001. Use of the pooling of interests method is no longer permitted. We adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 141 commencing July 1, 2001. We have accounted for all of our business combinations in 2001 and 2000 as purchases and the adoption of SFAS No. 141 is not expected to have a significant impact on our financial position or results of operations. SFAS No. 142 requires that goodwill resulting from a business combination will no longer be amortized to earnings, but instead be reviewed for impairment. We are required to adopt SFAS No. 142 as of January 1, 2002. For goodwill resulting from business combinations prior to July 1, 2001, amortization of goodwill continued through December 31, 2001, but ceased commencing January 1, 2002. For business combinations occurring on or after July 1, 2001, the associated goodwill will not be amortized. Upon adoption of SFAS No. 142, we are required to perform a transitional impairment test for all recorded goodwill within six months and, if necessary, determine the amount of an impairment loss by December 31, 2002. The adoption of SFAS No. 142 will reduce the amount of amortization of goodwill and intangible assets from approximately $460 million per quarter to approximately $84 million per quarter, including the effect of all acquisitions through December 31, 2001, but excluding the impact of H.O. Systems and assuming no other acquisitions or impairment charges. In addition, approximately $10.9 million of intangible assets previously allocated to workforce in place will be subsumed into goodwill as of January 1, 2002. We are currently evaluating the effect, if any, of the required impairment testing on our recorded goodwill, which had a net book value of $4.9 billion at December 31, 2001. In August 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations" and in October issued SFAS No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets." SFAS No. 143 requires that the fair value of an asset retirement obligation be recorded as a liability in the period in which the obligation is incurred. SFAS No. 144 addresses financial accounting and reporting for the impairment or disposal of long lived assets and supercedes SFAS No. 121 and the accounting and reporting provisions of APB Opinion No. 30 as it related to the disposal of a segment of a business. SFAS No. 143 is effective for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2002 and SFAS No. 144 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001. We have adopted SFAS No. 144 effective January 1, 2002 and SFAS No. 143 will be adopted effective January 1, 2003. The effect of adopting these Statements is not expected to have a material effect on ours consolidated financial position or results of operations. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Interest rate sensitivity The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal while at the same time maximizing the income we receive from our investments without significantly increasing risk. Some of the securities that we have invested in may be subject to market risk. This means that a change in prevailing interest rates may cause the principal amount of the investment to fluctuate. For example, if we hold a security that was issued with a fixed interest rate at the then prevailing rate and the prevailing interest rate later rises, the principal amount of our investment will probably decline in value. If market interest rates were to increase immediately and uniformly by 10 percent from levels at December 31, 2001, this would not materially change the fair market value of our portfolio. To minimize this risk, we maintain our portfolio of cash equivalents and short term investments in a variety of securities, including commercial paper, medium term notes, corporate bonds and notes, market auction securities, U.S. government and 58 agency securities and money market funds. In general, money market funds are not subject to interest rate risk because the interest paid on such funds fluctuates with the prevailing interest rate. In addition, we generally invest in relatively short term securities. As of December 31, 2001, 43% of our short term investments mature in less than one year. We do not hold any derivative financial instruments. The following table presents the amounts of our cash equivalents and investments that are subject to market risk by range of expected maturity and weighted average interest rates as of December 31, 2001. This table does not include money market funds because those funds are not subject to market risk. Maturing in Six Six Months Months or to One More than Estimated Less Year One Year Total Fair Value (Dollars in thousands) Included in cash and cash equivalents.. $ 97,830 $ $ $ 97,830 $ 97,840 Weighted average interest rate......... 2.65% Included in short term investments..... $132,090 $38,887 $222,563 $393,540 $396,840 Weighted average interest rate......... 3.21% 3.55% 4.99% Exchange rate sensitivity We consider our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations to be minimal. All revenues derived from operations other than VeriSign Japan K.K., THAWTE (South Africa), Registrars.com (Canada), euro909 (Europe) and Domainnames.com (U.K.) are denominated in United States dollars and, therefore, are not subject to exchange rate fluctuations. Both the revenues and expenses of our majority owned subsidiary in Japan as well as our wholly owned subsidiaries and sales offices in South Africa, Europe, Sweden, Canada and the United Kingdom are denominated in local currencies. In these regions, we believe this serves as a natural hedge against exchange rate fluctuations because although an unfavorable change in the exchange rate of the foreign currency against the United States dollar will result in lower revenues when translated to United States Dollars, operating expenses will also be lower in these circumstances. Because of our minimal exposure to foreign currencies, we have not engaged in any hedging activities, although if future events or changes in circumstances indicate that hedging activities would be beneficial, we may consider such activities. Equity price risk We own shares of common stock of several public companies. We value these investments using the closing market value for the last day of each month. These investments are subject to market price volatility. We reflect these investments on our balance sheet at their market value, with the unrealized gains and losses excluded from earnings and reported in the "Accumulated other comprehensive income" component of stockholders equity. We have also invested in equity instruments of several privately held companies, many of which can still be considered in the startup or development stages, and therefore, carry a high level of risk. In 2001, we determined the decline in value of certain public and non public equity investments was other than temporary and we recognized a $89.1 million impairment loss. Due to the inherent risk associated with some of our investments, and in light of current stock market conditions, we may incur future losses on the sales, write downs or write offs of our investments. We do not currently hedge against equity price changes. 59 
 
