ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS Except for historical information, this Report contains forward looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, including, among other things, statements regarding our anticipated costs and expenses and revenue mix. Forward looking statements include, among others, those statements including the words expects, anticipates, intends, believes and similar language. Our actual results may differ significantly from those projected in the forward looking statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Item 1 Business Factors That May Affect Future Results of Operations. You should carefully review the risks described in other documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Quarterly Reports on Form 10 Q or Current Reports on Form 8 K that we file in 2003. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. We undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to the forward looking statements or reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document. Overview VeriSign, Inc. is a leading provider of critical infrastructure services that enable Web site owners, enterprises, communications service providers, e commerce service providers and individuals to engage in secure digital commerce and communications. Our services include three core offerings: Internet security and registry services, telecommunications services, and Web presence services. We market our products and services through our direct sales force, telesales operations, member organizations in our global affiliate network, value added resellers, service providers, and our Web sites. Beginning in the first quarter of 2003, we realigned our business segments. We are organized into three service based lines of business: the Internet Services Group, the Telecommunication Services Group, and Network Solutions. The Internet Services Group consists of two business units: Security Services and Registry Services. Our Security Services business unit provides products and services to organizations who want to establish and deliver secure Internet based services for their customers including: managed security and network services, Web trust services and payment services. Our Registry Services business unit acts as the exclusive registry of domain names in the .com and .net gTLDs and certain ccTLDs. The Telecommunication Services Group provides specialized services to telecommunications carriers. Service offerings include the Signaling System 7, or SS7, network, as either part of the connectivity, switching and transport function of the SS7 network or as intelligent network services delivered over the SS7 network. SS7 is an industry standard system of protocols and procedures that is used to control telephone communications and provide routing information in association with vertical calling features, such as calling card validation, advanced intelligent network services, local number portability, wireless services, toll free number database access and caller identification. The Telecommunication Services Group also offers advanced billing and customer care services to wireless carriers. Through our Network Solutions subsidiary, we provide digital identity through domain name registration services, and value added services, such as e mail, Web site creation tools, Web site hosting and other e commerce enabling offerings. We register second level domain names in the .com, .net, .org, .biz and .info gTLDs, as well as selected ccTLDs, such as .uk and .tv, around the world, enabling individuals, companies and organizations to establish a unique identity on the Internet. Our customers apply to register second level domain names either directly through our Web sites or indirectly through our channel partner wholesalers, Internet service providers, telecommunications companies and others. We accept registrations and re registrations in annual or multi year increments for periods up to ten years. 36 Table of Contents We also provide other digital identity and Web presence value added products and services through our Web site storefront, such as Network Solutions hosted domain names, Web sites from Network Solutions, Web forwarding (which allows a customer to forward Internet traffic from one Web site to another) and Network Solutions mail. The managements discussion and analysis that follows is based on our previous structure that was in effect throughout 2002, 2001 and 2000. For more information on both our previous structure and our new service based business segments, please refer to Note 13 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Enterprise and Service Provider Division The Enterprise and Service Provider Division provides the following types of services: managed security and network services, registry services and telecommunications services. Managed security and network services include our traditional public key infrastructure, or PKI, services for enterprises or members of our VeriSign Affiliate program, enterprise consulting and management services, digital brand management services and managed domain name services. We are the exclusive registry of domain names within the .com and .net gTLDs under agreements with the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers, or ICANN, and the Department of Commerce, or DOC. We maintain the master directory of all second level domain names in these top level domains. We own and maintain the shared registration system that allows all registrars to enter new second level domain names into the master directory and to submit modifications, transfers, re registrations and deletions for existing second level domain names. We provide specialized services to telecommunications carriers through our Illuminet Holdings and H.O. Systems subsidiaries. Illuminet Holdings service offerings include the Signaling System 7, or SS7, network as either part of the connectivity, switching and transport function of the SS7 network or as intelligent network services delivered over the SS7 network. SS7 is an industry standard system of protocols and procedures that is used to control telephone communications and provide routing information in association with vertical calling features, such as calling card validation, advanced intelligent network services, local number portability, wireless services, toll free number database access and caller identification. H.O. Systems offers advanced billing and customer care services to wireless carriers. Mass Markets Division The Mass Markets Division provides the following types of Web related services: Web presence services, Web trust services and payment services. Through our Web presence services, we provide digital identity through domain name registration services and value added services, such as e mail, Web site creation tools and other e commerce enabling offerings. We register second level domain names in the .com, .net, .org, .biz and .info generic top level domains, as well as selected country code top level domains, such as .uk and .tv, around the world, enabling individuals, companies and organizations to establish a unique identity on the Internet. Web trust services include our Web server digital certificate services, which enable merchants to implement and operate secure Web sites that utilize the Secure Sockets Layer, or SSL, or Wireless Transport Layer Security, or WTLS, protocols. These services provide merchants with the means to identify themselves to consumers and to encrypt communications between consumers and their Web site. Our payment services provide Internet merchants with the ability to securely and digitally authorize, capture and settle a variety of payment types using our Internet payment gateway. 37 Table of Contents Acquisitions In February 2002, we completed our acquisition of H.O. Systems, Inc., a provider of billing and customer care solutions to wireless carriers. We paid approximately $350 million in cash for all of the outstanding stock of H.O. Systems. The total purchase price was allocated to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and the liabilities assumed based on their respective fair values on the acquisition date. H.O. Systems results of operations were included in the consolidated financial statements from its date of acquisition. In December 2001, we completed our acquisition of Illuminet Holdings, Inc., a provider of intelligent network and signaling services to telecommunications carriers. We issued approximately 30.6 million shares of our common stock for all of the outstanding shares of Illuminet Holdings and we also assumed all of Illuminet Holdings outstanding stock options. The acquisition has been accounted for as a purchase and, accordingly, the total purchase price of approximately $1.4 billion was allocated to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and the liabilities assumed based on their respective fair values on the acquisition date. As a result of our acquisition of Illuminet Holdings, we recorded goodwill of approximately $1.0 billion and other intangible assets of approximately $281 million. Illuminet Holdings results of operations have been included in the consolidated financial statements from its date of acquisition. In addition, during 2001, we completed acquisitions of eleven privately held companies or acquired certain assets of privately held companies, which were not significant, either individually or in the aggregate. We issued approximately 939,000 shares of our common stock and paid approximately $151 million in cash in exchange for all of the outstanding shares of these companies. We also assumed certain of the companies outstanding stock options. Each of these transactions has been accounted for as a purchase and, accordingly, the results of the acquired companies operations are included in our consolidated financial statements from their respective dates of acquisition. As a result of these acquisitions, we recorded goodwill of approximately $252 million and unearned compensation of approximately $19 million. During 2000, we completed our acquisitions of THAWTE Consulting (Pty) Ltd and Signio, Inc. in February and our acquisition of Network Solutions, Inc. in June. In addition, we completed acquisitions of several other privately held companies, which were not significant, either individually or in the aggregate. Each of these transactions has been accounted for as a purchase and, accordingly, the results of the acquired companies operations are included in our consolidated financial statements from their respective dates of acquisition. Critical accounting policies and significant management estimates The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, allowance for doubtful accounts, investments and long lived assets. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily available from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our more significant judgments and estimates used in preparing our consolidated financial statements. Revenue recognition We derive revenues from three primary categories of services: (i) security services, which include managed security and network services, Web trust services and payment services, and registry services; 38 Table of Contents (ii) telecommunications services, which include connectivity, intelligent networks, wireless and clearinghouse services; and (iii) domain name registration services. The revenue recognition policy for each of these categories is as follows: Domain Name Registration Services Domain name registration revenues consist primarily of registration fees charged to customers and registrars for domain name registration services. Revenues from the initial registration or renewal of domain name registration services are deferred and recognized ratably over the registration term, generally one to two years and up to ten years. Domain name registration renewal fees are estimated and recorded based on renewal and collection rates. Customers are notified of the expiration of their registration in advance, and we record the receivables for estimated renewal fees in the month preceding the anniversary date of their registration when we have a right to bill under the terms of our domain name registration agreements. The variance between the actual collections and the rate used to estimate the renewal fees is reflected in the setting of renewal rates for prospective periods. Fees for renewals and advance extensions to the existing term are deferred until the new incremental period commences. These fees are then recognized ratably over the new registration term, ranging from one to ten years. Security Services and Registry Services Revenues from the licensing of digital certificate technology and business process technology are derived from arrangements involving multiple elements including post contract customer support, or PCS, training and other services. These licenses, which do not provide for right of return, are primarily perpetual licenses for which revenues are recognized up front once all criteria for revenue recognition have been met. Revenues from the sale or renewal of digital certificates are deferred and recognized ratably over the life of the digital certificate, generally 12 months. Revenues from the sale of managed PKI services are deferred and recognized ratably over the term of the license, generally 12 to 36 months. PCS is bundled with managed PKI services licenses and recognized over the license term. We recognize revenues from issuances of digital certificates and business process licensing to VeriSign Affiliates in accordance with SOP 97 2, Software Revenue Recognition, as amended by SOP 98 9, and generally recognize revenues when all of the following criteria are met: (1) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, (2) delivery has occurred, (3) the fee is fixed or determinable and (4) collectibility is probable. We define each of these four criteria as follows: Persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists. It is our customary practice to have a written contract, which is signed by both the customer and us, or a purchase order from those customers who have previously negotiated a standard license arrangement with us. Delivery has occurred. Our software may be either physically or electronically delivered to the customer. Electronic delivery is deemed to have occurred upon download by the customer from an FTP server. If an arrangement includes undelivered products or services that are essential to the functionality of the delivered product, delivery is not considered to have occurred until these products or services are delivered. The fee is fixed or determinable. It is our policy to not provide customers the right to a refund of any portion of its license fees paid. We may agree to payment terms with a foreign customer based on local customs. Generally, at least 80% of the arrangement fees are due within one year or less. Arrangements with payment terms extending beyond these customary payment terms are considered not to be fixed or determinable, and revenues from such arrangements are recognized as payments become due and payable. Collectibility is probable. Collectibility is assessed on a customer by customer basis. We typically sell to customers for whom there is a history of successful collection. New customers are subjected to a credit review process that evaluates the customers financial position and ultimately their ability to pay. 39 Table of Contents If we determine from the outset of an arrangement that collectibility is not probable based upon our credit review process, revenues are recognized as cash is collected. We allocate revenues on software arrangements involving multiple elements to each element based on the relative fair value of each element. Our determination of fair value of each element in multiple element arrangements is based on vendor specific objective evidence of fair value, or VSOE. We limit our assessment of VSOE for each element to the price charged when the same element is sold separately. We have analyzed all of the elements included in our multiple element arrangements and determined that we have sufficient VSOE to allocate revenues to PCS, professional services and training components of our perpetual license arrangements. We sell our professional services and training separately, and have established VSOE on this basis. VSOE for PCS is determined based upon the customers annual renewal rates for these elements. Accordingly, assuming all other revenue recognition criteria are met, revenues from perpetual licenses are recognized upon delivery using the residual method in accordance with SOP 98 9. Our consulting services generally are not essential to the functionality of the software. Our software products are fully functional upon delivery and do not require any significant modification or alteration. Customers purchase these consulting services to facilitate the adoption of our technology and dedicate personnel to participate in the services being performed, but they may also decide to use their own resources or appoint other consulting service organizations to provide these services. Software products are billed separately and independently from consulting services, which are generally billed on a time and materials or milestone achieved basis. Revenues from consulting services are recognized using either the percentage of completion method or on a time and materials basis as work is performed. Percentage of completion is based upon the ratio of hours incurred to total hours estimated to be incurred for the project. We have a history of accurately estimating project status and the hours required to complete projects. If different conditions were to prevail such that accurate estimates could not be made, then the use of the completed contract method would be required and all revenue and costs would be deferred until the project was completed. Revenues from training are recognized as training is performed. Revenues from third party product sales are recognized when title to the products sold passes to the customer. Our shipping terms generally dictate that the passage of title occurs upon shipment of the products to the customer. Revenues from payment services primarily consist of a set up fee and a monthly service fee for the transaction processing services. In accordance with SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 101, Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements, revenues from set up fees are deferred and recognized ratably over the period that the fees are earned. Revenues from the service fees are recognized ratably over the periods in which the services are provided. Advance customer deposits received are deferred and allocated ratably to revenue over the periods the services are provided. Telecommunications Services Revenues from telecommunications services are comprised of network connectivity revenues and intelligent network services revenues, and wireless billing and customer care services. Network connectivity revenues are derived from establishing and maintaining connection to our SS7 network and trunk signaling services. Revenues from network connectivity consist primarily of monthly recurring fees, and trunk signaling service revenues are charged monthly based on the number of switches to which a customer signals. The initial connection fee and related costs are deferred and recognized over the term of the arrangement. Intelligent network services, which include calling card validation, local number portability, wireless services, toll free database access and caller identification are derived primarily from database administration and database query services and are charged on a per use or per query basis. Revenues from prepaid wireless account management services and unregistered wireless roaming services are based on the revenue retained by us and recognized in the period in which such 40 Table of Contents calls are processed on a per minute or per call basis. Revenues from wireless billing and customer care services primarily represent a monthly recurring fee for every subscriber activated by our wireless carrier customers. Clearinghouse services revenues are derived primarily from serving as a distribution and collection point for billing information and payment collection for services provided by one carrier to customers billed by another. Clearinghouse revenues are earned based on the number of messages processed. Included in prepaid expenses and other current assets are amounts from customers that are related to our telecommunications services for third party network access, data base charges and clearinghouse toll amounts that have been invoiced and remitted to the customer. Reciprocal Arrangements On occasion, we have purchased goods or services for our operations from organizations at or about the same time that we licensed our software to these organizations. These transactions are recorded at terms we consider to be fair value. For these reciprocal arrangements, we consider Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 29, Accounting for Nonmonetary Transactions, and Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 01 02, Interpretation of APB Opinion No. 29, to determine whether the arrangement is a monetary or nonmonetary transaction. Transactions involving the exchange of boot representing 25% or greater of the fair value of the reciprocal arrangement are considered monetary transactions within the context of APB Opinion No. 29 and EITF Issue No. 01 02. Monetary transactions and nonmonetary transactions that represent the culmination of an earnings process are recorded at the fair value of the products delivered or products or services received, whichever is more readily determinable, provided that fair values are determinable within reasonable limits. In determining fair value, we consider the recent history of cash sales of the same products or services in similar sized transactions. Revenues from such transactions may be recognized over a period of time as the products or services are received. For nonmonetary reciprocal arrangements that do not represent the culmination of the earnings process, the exchange is recorded based on the carrying value of the products delivered, which is generally zero. In 2002, we recognized revenues under reciprocal arrangements of approximately $14.0 million, of which $9.7 million involved nonmonetary transactions, as defined above. In 2001, we recognized revenues under reciprocal arrangements of approximately $37.5 million, of which $27.0 million involved nonmonetary transactions, as defined above. We did not recognize any revenues under reciprocal arrangements in 2000. Allowance for doubtful accounts We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. We regularly review the adequacy of our accounts receivable allowance after considering the size of the accounts receivable balance, each customers expected ability to pay and our collection history with each customer. We review significant invoices that are past due to determine if an allowance is appropriate based on the risk category using the factors described above. In addition, we maintain a general reserve for all invoices by applying a percentage based on the age category. We also monitor our accounts receivable for concentration to any one customer, industry or geographic region. To date our receivables have not had any particular concentrations that, if not collected, would have a significant impact on our operating income. We require all acquired companies to adopt our credit policies. The allowance for doubtful accounts represents our best estimate, but changes in circumstances relating to accounts receivable may result in a requirement for additional allowances in the future. Investments We invest in debt and equity securities of technology companies for business and strategic purposes. Some of these companies are publicly traded and have highly volatile share prices. However, in most instances, these investments are in the form of equity and debt securities of private companies for which there is no public market. These companies are typically in the early stage of development and are expected to incur substantial 41 Table of Contents losses in the near term. Therefore, these companies may never become publicly traded. Even if they do, an active trading market for their securities may never develop and we may never realize any return on these investments. Further, if these companies are not successful, we could incur charges related to write downs or write offs of these investments. We review our marketable equity holdings in publicly traded companies on a regular basis to determine if any security has experienced an other than temporary decline in fair value. We consider the investee companys cash position, earnings and revenue outlook, stock price performance over the preceding six months, liquidity and changes in managements ownership, among other factors, in our review. If we determine that an other than temporary decline exists in a marketable equity security that is classified as available for sale, we record an investment loss in our consolidated statement of operations. For non public companies, we review, on a quarterly basis, the assumptions underlying the operating performance and cash flow forecasts based on information requested from these privately held companies on at least a quarterly basis. This information may be more limited, may not be as timely and may be less accurate than information available from publicly traded companies. Assessing each investments carrying value requires significant judgment by management. Generally, if cash balances are insufficient to sustain a companys operations for a six month period, we consider the decline in its fair value to be other than temporary. If we determine that an other than temporary decline in fair value exists in a non public equity security, we write down the investment to its fair value and record the related write down as an investment loss in our consolidated statement of operations. During 2002 and 2001, we determined that the decline in value of certain of our public and non public equity investments was other than temporary and recorded write downs of these investments totaling $170.9 million and $89.1 million, respectively. During 2000 we recorded no investment write downs. Valuation of long lived intangible assets including goodwill Our long lived assets consist primarily of goodwill, other intangible assets and property and equipment. We review long lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such an asset may not be recoverable. Such events or circumstances include, but are not limited to, a significant decrease in the fair value of the underlying business or asset, a significant decrease in the benefits realized from the acquired business, difficulty and delays in integrating the business or a significant change in the operations of the acquired business or use of an asset. Goodwill and other intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, totaled $1.1 billion as of December 31, 2002, which was comprised of $667.3 million of goodwill, including workforce in place, and $462.3 million of other intangibles assets. Other intangible assets include ISP hosting relationships, customer relationships, technology in place, non compete agreements, trade names, and contracts with ICANN and customer lists. Factors we consider important which could trigger an impairment review include, but are not limited to, significant under performance relative to expected historical or projected future operating results, significant changes in the manner of our use of our acquired assets or the strategy for our overall business or significant negative economic trends. If this evaluation indicates that the value of an intangible asset may be impaired, an assessment of the recoverability of the net carrying value of the asset over its remaining useful life is made. If this assessment indicates that an intangible asset is not recoverable, based on the estimated undiscounted future cash flows or other comparable market valuations, of the entity or technology acquired over the remaining amortization period, the net carrying value of the related intangible asset will be reduced to fair value and the remaining amortization period may be adjusted. Any such impairment charge could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our reported financial statements. Based on these measurements, we recorded an impairment charge of approximately $4.6 billion during 2002. Recoverability of long lived assets other than goodwill is measured by comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to estimated undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its estimated future cash flows, an impairment charge is recognized by the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair value. 42 Table of Contents We review, at least annually, goodwill resulting from purchase business combinations for impairment in accordance with SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. We review long lived assets, including certain identifiable intangibles, for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that we will not be able to recover the assets carrying amount in accordance with SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets. Results of Operations We have experienced substantial net losses in the past due primarily to the charges we have incurred for the amortization and write down of acquired goodwill and other intangible assets related to our acquisitions. As of December 31, 2002, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $21.5 billion, primarily due to the amortization and write down of goodwill and other intangible assets of approximately $21.7 billion related to our acquisitions. In accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 142, goodwill is no longer amortized to earnings as of January 1, 2002. Amortization of other intangible assets is expected to be approximately $189 million in 2003, including the impact of all acquisitions through December 31, 2002, and assuming no other future acquisitions or impairment charges. We accounted for all of our acquisitions in 2002, 2001 and 2000 as purchase business combinations. Accordingly, the acquired companies revenues, costs and expenses have been included in our results of operations beginning with their dates of acquisition. As a result of our acquisitions of H.O. Systems in February 2002, Illuminet Holdings in December 2001, Network Solutions in June 2000, and THAWTE and Signio in February 2000, comparisons of revenues, costs and expenses for the year ended December 31, 2002 to the years ended December 31, 2001, and 2000 may not be relevant, as the businesses represented in the consolidated financial statements were not equivalent. Revenues Beginning in the first quarter of 2003, VeriSign realigned its business segments. The new service based business segments consist of the Internet Services Group, the Telecommunication Services Group and Network Solutions. The managements discussion and analysis that follows is based on our previous structure that was in effect throughout 2002, 2001 and 2000. For more information on both our previous structure and our new service based business segments, please refer to Note 13 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. A comparison of revenues for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000 is presented below. 2002 Change 2001 Change 2000 (Dollars in thousands) Managed security and network services $ 287,615 (3 )% $ 298,000 101 % $ 147,984 Registry and telecommunications services 521,940 300 % 130,503 196 % 44,148 Subtotal Enterprise and Service Provider Division 809,555 89 % 428,503 123 % 192,132 Web presence and trust services 412,113 (26 )% 555,061 96 % 282,634 Subtotal Mass Markets Division 412,113 (26 )% 555,061 96 % 282,634 Total revenues $ 1,221,668 24 % $ 983,564 107 % $ 474,766 Total revenues increased 24% in 2002 compared to 2001, consisting of an increase in Enterprise and Service Provider Division revenues of 89% partially offset by a decrease in Mass Markets Division revenues of 26%. The increase in revenues for our Enterprise and Service Provider Division was primarily due to our telecommunications services acquisitions of Illuminet Holdings in December 2001, and H.O. Systems in February 2002. Additionally, we experienced a modest increase in our Registry Services revenues. Revenues for our Mass Markets Division, which included revenues from our Web presence and trust services businesses, decreased 26% primarily due to a decline in the amount of deferred revenue recognized in 2002 from prior year 43 Table of Contents sales compared with the amount of such deferred revenue from prior year sales recognized in 2001 revenue. A decrease in the number of new names and the non renewal of names paid for, contributed to this decline in deferred revenue in 2002 as compared to 2001. There were fewer domain names under management by Network Solutions at December 31, 2002, as compared to December 31, 2001, mainly due to the deletion of names that had never been paid for, or the term of which had expired in years prior to 2002, but which had not been deleted in those prior years. Many of these were non revenue generating names. Revenues increased significantly in 2001 from 2000 for our Enterprise and Service Provider Division and our Mass Markets Division. The increases were primarily due to the acquisition of Network Solutions in June 2000 whose registry services revenues and Web presence revenues are attributable to our Enterprise and Service Provider Division and our Mass Markets Division, respectively. Sales of authentication services, particularly Web site digital certificates and enterprise and affiliate PKI services, also increased in 2001 as compared to 2000. In addition, we expanded the VeriSign Trust Network of worldwide affiliates in 2001 and saw increased demand for our training and consulting services during 2001 as compared to 2000. We derived 2.2% in 2002, 6.5% in 2001 and 2.8% in 2000 of our total revenues from customers with whom we have participated in a private equity round of financing, including several of the VeriSign Affiliates as well as various technology companies in a variety of related market areas. Typically in these relationships, we sell our products and services to a company and, under a separate agreement, participate with other investors in a private equity round financing of the company. We typically make our investments with others where our investment is less than 50% of the total financing round. Our policy is not to recognize revenue in excess of other investors financing of the company. These arrangements are independent relationships and are not terminable unless the terms of the agreements are violated. In 2002 and 2001, we derived 1.1% and 3.8% of our total revenues from reciprocal arrangements, respectively. We derived no revenues from customers from reciprocal arrangements in 2000. Typically in these relationships, under separate agreements, we sell our products and services to a company and that company sells to us their products and services. We enter into these arrangements for strategic business purposes and the goods and services we receive in exchange are those we would have purchased in non reciprocal arrangements. These arrangements are independent relationships and are not terminable unless the terms of the agreements are violated. Enterprise and Service Provider Division Enterprise and Service Provider Division revenues from external customers were $809.6 million in 2002, $428.5 million in 2001 and $192.1 million in 2000. In 2002, revenues from our managed security and network services product line decreased approximately $10.4 million, to $287.6 million from $298.0 million in 2001. The decrease in revenues was related to a decrease in international affiliate revenues partially offset by an increase in revenues related to prior year acquisitions and from an increase in consulting services revenues which included the resale of third party products. We expect revenues from our managed security and networks services, which will be included in our Internet Services Group in future periods, to decrease in 2003 due to our recent decision to significantly reduce the resale of third party products. Third party software and hardware sales are generally made at lower margins than our other enterprise and mass market sales. In 2001, revenues from the managed security and network services product line increased approximately $150.0 million, to $298.0 million from $148.0 million in 2000. The revenue increase was primarily due to increases in managed PKI services sold, software licenses sold to 13 new affiliate service providers, an increase in royalties earned from existing affiliates and an overall increase in the volume of consulting services that included the resale of third party products. 44 Table of Contents In 2002, revenues from registry and telecommunications services increased approximately $391.4 million, to $521.9 million from $130.5 million in 2001. This increase reflects the inclusion of a full year of telecommunications services revenues in 2002 relating to our acquisition of Illuminet Holdings in December 2001, and over ten months of revenues relating to our acquisition of H.O. Systems in February 2002. The acquisition of Illuminet Holdings and H.O. Systems resulted in a net increase in telecommunications services revenues of approximately $374.1 million in 2002. In addition, revenues from our registry services increased modestly. Our Registry Services business unit processed the renewal, extension or transfer of 10.5 million domain names during 2002, bringing the total number of paid domain name transactions during 2002 to 25.1 million, an increase of approximately 3.1 million over 2001. At December 31, 2002, our Registry Services business managed approximately 28.3 million domain names. In 2001, revenues from registry and telecommunications services increased approximately $86.4 million, to $130.5 million from $44.1 million in 2000. This increase reflects the inclusion of a full year of Registry services revenue compared to approximately seven months in 2000, as a result of the acquisition of Network Solutions in June 2000. Revenues related to outsourced managed registry services also increased. Our Registry Services business unit managed approximately 28.8 million domain names at December 31, 2001 for all domain names ending in .com, .net and .org. Our Registry Services business unit also processed the renewal, extension or transfer of 8.9 million domain names during 2001, bringing the total number of paid domain name transactions during 2001 to 22.0 million. Mass Markets Division Mass Markets Division revenues were $412.1 million in 2002, $555.1 million in 2001, and $282.6 million in 2000. In 2002, the decrease in revenues of $143.0 million was primarily due to the decrease in the amount of deferred revenue recognized in 2002 from prior year sales compared to the amount of such deferred revenue from prior year sales recognized in 2001 revenue. A decrease in the number of new names and the non renewal of names paid for, contributed to this decline in deferred revenue. This decline in revenue was also partially offset by an increase in revenues from the sales of Web site digital certificates and revenues related to payment services. At December 31, 2002, Network Solutions had a total of approximately 9.3 million domain names under management compared to approximately 13.6 million domain names at December 31, 2001. In 2001, the increase in revenues in the Mass Markets Division was primarily due to the inclusion of a full year of revenues from Web presence services compared to approximately seven months in 2000 as a result of the acquisition of Network Solutions in June 2000. In 2000, the demand for new domain name registrations in our Web presence business increased substantially, as a result of, but not limited to, the so called Internet bubble, our promotional programs which included free names, and from registrations by entities who registered domain names with the hopes of reselling them. Most of the unpaid for, promotional and speculative names were not renewed and have been deleted from the Registry zone file in 2002. Many of these were not revenue generating names or products in 2002. Our Mass Markets Division and our Enterprise and Service Provider Division issued approximately 391,000 new and renewed Web site digital certificates in 2002 compared to 366,000 in 2001 and 274,000 in 2000. The total installed base of Web site digital certificates was over 392,000 at December 31, 2002, compared to 366,000 at December 31, 2001. In addition, due to increased competition in the Web trust services market, we have experienced moderate pricing pressure for our services. We expect that this pricing pressure will continue in 2003. 45 Table of Contents International revenues Revenues from international subsidiaries and VeriSign Affiliates accounted for 9% of total revenues in 2002, 13% in 2001 and 14% in 2000. The percentage decrease in revenues from international subsidiaries and VeriSign Affiliates in 2002 compared to 2001 was primarily due to the acquisitions of Illuminet Holdings in December 2001 and H.O. Systems in February 2002 whose revenues are derived principally from customers located in the United States. Additionally, a decline in the number of new licensing agreements and royalty payments received from VeriSign Affiliates has resulted in a decrease in international revenues in 2002 of approximately $43 million partially offset by increases in revenues from international subsidiaries of approximately $20 million. In 2003, VeriSign is transitioning its international strategy in some countries by moving from a distribution model through the VeriSign Affiliates to a direct distribution model through its international subsidiaries. As a result, in 2003 we expect international revenues to increase modestly even though revenues from VeriSign Affiliates will likely decline. The percentage decrease in revenues from international subsidiaries and VeriSign Affiliates in 2001 compared to 2000 was primarily related to the acquisition in June 2000 of Network Solutions, whose revenues are primarily attributable to U.S. sources. This was partially offset by additional revenues from international subsidiaries and VeriSign Affiliates in 2001 related to an increase in the number of VeriSign Affiliates in the VeriSign Trust Network combined with other activities to expand our presence in foreign markets. Under our international affiliate program we sign agreements with local telecommunications companies, financial institutions and others to promote, sell and distribute our PKI services in international markets around the world. These VeriSign Affiliates typically require significant capital development, the cost of which is borne by the affiliate. Our strategy from time to time also includes investing in certain affiliates in strategic markets that represent advantageous economic opportunities for a minority investment of less than 20%. As a result, we invested in several international affiliates in 2002 and prior years. Revenues from VeriSign Affiliates in which we have a minority investment of less than 20% accounted for 1.5% of total revenues in 2002, 4.5% in 2001 and 1.5% in 2000. Costs and Expenses Cost of revenues Cost of revenues consists primarily of costs related to providing digital certificate enrollment and issuance services, payment services, operational costs for the domain name registration business, customer support and training, consulting and development services, carrier costs for our SS7 and IP based networks and costs of facilities and computer equipment used in these activities. In addition, with respect to our digital certificate services, cost of revenues also includes fees paid to third parties to verify certificate applicants identities, insurance premiums for our service warranty plan, errors and omission insurance and the cost of software and hardware resold to customers. A comparison of cost of revenues for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000 is presented below. 2002 Change 2001 Change 2000 (Dollars in thousands) Cost of revenues $ 571,367 66 % $ 343,721 111 % $ 163,049 Percentage of revenues 47 % 35 % 34 % Growth of revenues was the primary factor in the increase of cost of revenues on an absolute dollar basis in 2002 as compared to 2001 and in 2001 as compared to 2000. We acquired Illuminet Holdings in December 2001 and H.O. Systems in February 2002, which added significant cost of revenues during 2002. We incurred increased expenses for access to third party databases to verify digital certificate applicants identities, increased customer service costs related to our larger customer base and increased expenses related to the cost of hardware and software products resold to customers as part of our consulting business. Registry fees, third party fees, other direct costs, and labor are our largest expense categories for cost of revenues. The acquisition of Illuminet Holdings resulted in an increase in labor expenses of $35.4 million in 2002 and an increase of $124.5 million for third party fees and other direct costs. Additionally, depreciation expenses in cost of revenues increased due to the Illuminet acquisition by $31.3 million in 2002 compared to 2001. While overall our cost of revenues 46 Table of Contents increased, we reduced outside consulting costs by $10.4 million in 2002 from 2001 due to a company wide cost reduction effort. Our acquisition of Network Solutions in June of 2000 increased our cost of revenues in 2001 as compared to 2000 due to the inclusion of a full year of operating activity in 2001 compared to less than seven months in 2000. Future acquisitions, further expansion into international markets and introduction of new products may result in additional increases in cost of revenues, due to the hiring of additional personnel and related expenses and other factors. Cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues increased significantly during 2002 compared to 2001 due to the inclusion of a full year of activity from our Illuminet Holdings acquisition and due to over 10 months of activity from our H.O. Systems acquisition. Our telecommunications services businesses have different cost structures than our other businesses resulting in an increase in cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues since their acquisitions. Cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues increased slightly in 2001 from 2000, primarily due to the cost structure of the Network Solutions product mix and the increase in the volume of third party hardware and software sales, which was partially offset by economies of scale associated with the growth in recurring revenues from existing customers. Certain of our services, such as consulting and training, require greater initial personnel involvement and therefore have higher costs than other types of services. In addition, revenues derived from our authentication services, domain name registration services, registry services, payment services, and our telecommunications services each have different cost structures and our overall cost of revenues may fluctuate as these businesses mature. We anticipate that our overall cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues will decrease modestly in 2003 due to our recent decision to significantly reduce the resale of third party products. Sales and marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of costs related to sales and marketing, and policy activities. These expenses include salaries, sales commissions, sales operations and other personnel related expenses, travel and related expenses, trade shows, costs of lead generation, costs of computer and communications equipment and support services, facilities costs, consulting fees and costs of marketing programs, such as Internet, television, radio, print, and direct mail advertising costs. A comparison of sales and marketing expenses for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000 is presented below. 2002 Change 2001 Change 2000 (Dollars in thousands) Sales and marketing $ 248,170 (4 )% $ 259,585 55 % $ 167,148 Percentage of revenues 20 % 26 % 35 % Sales and marketing expenses decreased on an absolute dollar basis and as a percentage of revenues in 2002 from 2001 primarily due to a substantial reduction in expenditures for advertising and related promotional activities, particularly with respect to Network Solutions, and from a decrease in allocated lease expenses. Advertising and related promotional expenditures declined by over $44.7 million due to a heightened effort to control spending in conjunction with our restructuring program announced in April 2002. In an effort to decrease the use of external vendors for sales and marketing efforts, we have increased our internal labor expenses during 2002. This increase partially offsets the savings noted above. The decrease in allocated lease expenses is a result of our purchase of our headquarters complex in Mountain View, California in October of 2001. On an absolute dollar basis, our acquisitions of Illuminet Holdings and H.O. Systems in December 2001 and February 2002, respectively, partially offset the decrease in spending for advertising and related promotional activities and allocated lease expenses during 2002. These acquisitions resulted in an additional $12.1 million of sales and marketing labor expenses for 2002 as compared to 2001. Additionally, we incurred increased depreciation expense during 2002 compared to 2001 due to the depreciation of our headquarters facility and other property and equipment expenditures during 2002. 47 Table of Contents The Network Solutions acquisition was the primary reason for the increase in sales and marketing expenses on an absolute dollar basis in 2001 as compared to 2000. The Mass Markets Division incurred expenses promoting the value of the .com, .net and .org. Web addresses as well as value added services including Web site design tools and other enhanced service offerings. The remainder of the increase in both periods was driven by lead and demand generation activities in our enterprise and affiliate PKI businesses, expansion of our sales force and an increase in international sales expenses. On a percentage of revenues basis, the acquisition of Network Solutions, whose sales and marketing costs were comparatively less per revenue dollar than our other existing businesses combined, was the primary reason for the decrease in 2001 from 2000. We have continued to realize a decline in sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of revenues over the three year period presented. This is primarily due to the increase in recurring revenues from existing customers, which tend to have lower retention costs and the increase in the productivity of our direct and inside sales forces. However, we cannot forecast that these sales and marketing expenses will continue to decline as a percentage of revenues and we expect sales and marketing expenses to increase modestly on an absolute dollar basis in the future due to our expectations to increase our direct sales force abroad, and to expand our other distribution channels. Research and development Research and development expenses consist primarily of costs related to research and development personnel, including salaries and other personnel related expenses, consulting fees and the costs of facilities, computer and communications equipment and support services used in service and technology development. A comparison of research and development expenses for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000 is presented below. 2002 Change 2001 Change 2000 (Dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 48,353 (38 )% $ 78,134 89 % $ 41,256 Percentage of revenues 4 % 8 % 9 % Research and development expenses decreased in 2002 from 2001 in absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenues. The absolute dollar decrease is related to a substantial decrease in allocated lease expenses resulting from our purchase of our headquarters complex in Mountain View, California in October 2001, and from benefits realized as a result of our restructuring program. Additionally, during 2001, we incurred overall higher expenses for the design, testing and deployment of our security service offerings as compared to 2002. Research and development expenses increased in absolute dollars in 2001 from 2000 primarily due to the acquisition of Network Solutions in June 2000. The increase relates to the development and enhancement of new registry products related to multilingual domain names and managed domain name system services. In addition, we continued to invest in the design, testing and deployment of, and technical support for our expanded digital trust service offerings and technology. We also expanded our engineering staff and incurred related costs required to support our continued emphasis on developing new products and services as well as enhancing existing products and services. The decrease in research and development expenses as a percentage of revenues in 2001 from 2000 is largely due to the fact that revenues increased faster than research and development expenses in these periods. We believe that timely development of new and enhanced enterprise services, payment services, Web presence services and other technologies are necessary to maintain our position in the marketplace. Accordingly, we intend to continue to recruit experienced research and development personnel and to make other investments in research and development. As a result, we expect research and development expenses to increase modestly in absolute dollars and on a percentage of revenues basis in the future. To date, we have expensed all research and development expenditures as incurred. 48 Table of Contents General and administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries and other personnel related expenses for our executive, administrative, legal, finance and human resources personnel, facilities, and computer and communications equipment, management information systems, support services, professional services fees and bad debt expense. A comparison of general and administrative expenses for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000 is presented below. 2002 Change 2001 Change 2000 (Dollars in thousands) General and administrative $ 172,123 20 % $ 143,297 136 % $ 60,672 Percentage of revenues 14 % 15 % 13 % General and administrative expenses increased in 2002 from 2001 on an absolute dollar basis primarily due to our acquisitions of Illuminet Holdings and H.O. Systems in December 2001 and February 2002, respectively. These acquisitions resulted in a net increase in general and administrative expenses of $23.3 million during 2002, of which $9.0 million was labor expenses. In addition, bad debt expense increased to $42.7 million in 2002 compared to $26.9 million in 2001, primarily as a result of the continued deterioration in the overall economy. Legal expense increased by $3.2 million for 2002 and insurance costs increased $1.9 million primarily due to an increase in renewal premium rates in 2002 as compared to 2001. Depreciation expense increased modestly during 2002 resulting from the depreciation of our headquarters facility and other property and equipment expenditures during 2002. Increases in our general and administrative expenses were partially offset by decreases in lease expenses resulting from the purchase of our headquarters complex in Mountain View, California in October 2001, and the benefits realized from our restructuring program announced in April 2002. These benefits included reduction in general and administrative outside consulting expenses of $13.4 million and travel expenses of $2.1 million for 2002. The decrease in general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues in 2002 compared to 2001 is due to the fact that consolidated revenues increased at a faster rate than general and administrative expenses over the same periods as a result of our acquisitions of Illuminet Holdings and H.O. Systems. The increase in general and administrative expenses in 2001 over 2000 on an absolute dollar basis and as a percentage of revenues was primarily related to the acquisition of Network Solutions in June 2000. Expenses increased in 2001 from 2000, due to additional staffing levels required to manage and support our expanded operations, the implementation of additional management information systems and the expansion of our corporate headquarters. In addition, our bad debt expense increased to $26.9 million in 2001 from $5.8 million in 2000, primarily as a result of increased revenues and deterioration in the overall economy during 2001. We anticipate that general and administrative expenses will decrease on an absolute dollar basis in 2003. Restructuring and Other Charges In April 2002, we announced plans to restructure our operations to rationalize, integrate and align our resources. Our restructuring program included workforce reductions, abandonment of excess facilities, write off of abandoned property and equipment and other charges. As a result of our restructuring program and in conformity with SAB No. 100 and EITF Issues No. 94 3 and 88 10, we recorded restructuring and other charges of $88.6 million during 2002. We expect to incur additional restructuring charges of approximately $10 to $15 million in the first quarter of 2003 related to the restructuring of our consulting services. Our restructuring program is part of a larger scale, ongoing effort to reduce company wide spending. Cost savings resulting from our restructuring program, not including other cost savings efforts, were estimated to have been approximately $52 million in 2002 and are estimated to be approximately $56 million in 2003. 49 Table of Contents Workforce reduction. The restructuring program resulted in a workforce reduction of approximately 400 employees across certain business functions, operating units, and geographic regions. We recorded a workforce reduction charge of $6.2 million during 2002, relating primarily to severance and fringe benefits. Excess facilities. We recorded charges of approximately $29.7 million during 2002 for excess facilities that were either abandoned or downsized relating to lease terminations and non cancelable lease costs. To determine the lease loss, which is the loss after our cost recovery efforts from subleasing an abandoned building or separable portion thereof, certain estimates were made related to the (1) time period over which the relevant space would remain vacant, (2) sublease terms, and (3) sublease rates, including common area charges. If market sublease rates continue to decrease in these markets or if it takes longer than expected to sublease these facilities, the actual loss could exceed this estimate by an additional $36 million. Property and equipment that was disposed of or abandoned resulted in a net charge of $25.0 million during 2002 and consisted primarily of computer software, leasehold improvements, and computer equipment. Exit costs and other charges. We recorded other exit costs consisting of the write off of prepaid license fees associated with products that were intended to be incorporated into our product offerings but were subsequently abandoned as a result of the decision to restructure. These charges totaled approximately $9.1 million during 2002. As part of our efforts to rationalize, integrate and align resources, we also recorded other charges of $18.6 million during 2002 relating primarily to the write off of prepaid marketing assets associated with discontinued advertising. A summary of the restructuring and other charges recorded during 2002 are as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2002 (In thousands) Workforce reduction $ 6,207 Excess facilities 29,689 Write off of property and equipment 25,011 Exit costs and other charges 27,667 $ 88,574 At December 31, 2002, the accrued liability associated with the restructuring and other charges was $23.8 million and consisted of the following: Accrued Restructuring Costs at December 31, 2001 Restructuring and Other Charges Non Cash Restructuring and Other Charges Cash Payments Accrued Restructuring Costs at December 31, 2002 (In thousands) Workforce reduction $ $ 6,207 $ $ (6,094 ) $ 113 Excess facilities 29,689 (6,177 ) 23,512 Write off of property and equipment 25,011 (25,011 ) Exit costs and other charges 27,667 (16,857 ) (10,600 ) 210 $ $ 88,574 $ (41,868 ) $ (22,871 ) $ 23,835 Write off of acquired in process research and development The portion of the Network Solutions purchase price allocated to in process research and development, or IPR&D, was $54 million and was expensed immediately upon acquisition in 2000. Network Solutions IPR&D efforts focused on significant and substantial improvements and upgrades to its shared registration system, or SRS. The SRS is the system that provides a shared registration interface to the ICANN accredited and licensed 50 Table of Contents registrars into the .com, .net, and .org top level domain, or TLD, registry. It is through this system that registrars from all over the world are able to register domain names with the central database. Given the high demand on the SRS, it was in need of improvements and upgrades in the area of scalability, security, non English language capability and next generation resource provisioning protocol. As of the acquisition date, Network Solutions was in the process of developing technology that would add substantial functionality and features to the SRS. The IPR&D had not yet reached technological feasibility and had no alternative uses. The technological feasibility of the in process development efforts is established when the enterprise has completed all planning, designing, coding, and testing activities that are necessary to establish that the technology can be utilized to meet its design specifications including functions, features, and technical performance requirements. The development efforts related to upgrades and improvements in the SRS and other systems were completed in the first quarter of 2001. Amortization and write down of goodwill and other intangible assets During 2002, we completed our acquisition of H.O. Systems, which resulted in the recording of goodwill of approximately $213 million and other intangible assets of approximately $210 million. During 2001, we completed our acquisition of Illuminet Holdings along with a number of other less significant acquisitions, which resulted in the recording of goodwill of approximately $1.3 billion and other intangible assets of approximately $281 million. During 2000, we completed several acquisitions including THAWTE, Signio and Network Solutions. These acquisitions resulted in the recording of goodwill and other intangible assets in the amount of $21.3 billion. We adopted SFAS No. 142 as of January 1, 2002. Under the provisions of SFAS No. 142, purchased goodwill and certain indefinite lived intangibles are no longer amortized but are subject to testing for impairment on at least an annual basis. VeriSign also adopted SFAS No. 144 as of January 1, 2002. Under the provisions of SFAS No. 144, long lived assets, including intangible assets with finite lives, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that there has been a decline in the fair value of an asset. The results of this testing indicated the carrying values of goodwill for certain reporting units exceeded their implied fair values and other intangible assets with finite lives had carrying values that exceeded their fair values which resulted in an impairment charge of $4.6 billion in 2002. VeriSign determines the fair value of its reporting units, in part by engaging independent appraisers, who employ the income approach and the market comparables method of valuation. Determining the fair value of reporting units and intangible assets requires significant judgment with respect to projecting future cash flows, selecting appropriate terminal values and discount rates. Additionally, judgment is required in selecting appropriate market comparable companies in the valuations. The impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets in 2002 resulted in a write off of the net book value as follows: Enterprise and Service Provider Division Mass Markets Division Total (In thousands) Goodwill $ 2,360,634 $ 2,026,375 $ 4,387,009 Customer relationships 24,294 3,297 27,591 Technology in place 40,693 256 40,949 Trade name 3,205 3,205 Contracts with ICANN and customer lists 129,007 23,092 152,099 $ 2,557,833 $ 2,053,020 $ 4,610,853 Prior to our adoption of SFAS No. 142 on January 1, 2002, our policy was to assess the recoverability of goodwill using estimated undiscounted cash flows. Those cash flows included an estimated terminal value based 51 Table of Contents on a hypothetical sale of an acquisition at the end of its goodwill amortization period. Although the acquisitions of THAWTE, Signio and Network Solutions had been predominantly performing at or above expectations throughout 2001, market conditions and attendant multiples used to estimate terminal values were depressed. At June 30, 2000, the NASDAQ market index was at 3,966 points and had decreased 1,805 points, or 46%, to 2,161 points at June 30, 2001. This decline affected the analysis used to assess the recoverability of goodwill. For goodwill associated with THAWTE and Network Solutions, fair value was determined based on future operating cash flows over the remaining amortization period of the goodwill. The terminal values were estimated based on the relationship of the value of our stock issued at the acquisition date to the value of our stock over the three month period preceding the valuation. For Signio and the other acquisitions, fair value was determined through the use of recent indicators of fair value such as comparable sales and multiples derived from recent acquisition activities. As a result, we recorded an impairment charge in the amount of $9.9 billion in 2001. Since the most significant acquisitions were completed by issuing shares of our common stock, the impairment is considered a non cash charge. The amortization and write down of goodwill and other intangible assets was approximately $4.9 billion in 2002, $13.6 billion in 2001 and $3.2 billion in 2000. Excluding impairment write downs of goodwill and other intangible assets, amortization expense was approximately $284 million in 2002, $3.7 billion in 2001 and $3.2 billion in 2000. The decrease in amortization expense excluding write downs in 2002 from 2001 is due to the effects of the provisions of SFAS No. 142 in which goodwill is no longer amortized. The increase in amortization expense in 2001 from 2000 is due to a full years amortization of Network Solutions in 2001. Amortization of other intangible assets is expected to be approximately $189 million for 2003, including the impact of all acquisitions through December 31, 2002, and assuming no other future acquisitions or impairment charges. Total other income (expense) Total other income (expense) consists primarily of interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents and short term and long term investments, gains and losses on the sale or write down of equity investments, and the net effect of foreign currency transaction gains and losses. A comparison of total other income (expense) for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000 is presented below. 2002 Change 2001 Change 2000 (Dollars in thousands) Total other income (expense) $ (148,873 ) 563 % $ (22,469 ) (126 )% $ 86,169 Percentage of revenues (12 )% (2 )% 18 % Total other expense in 2002 was primarily comprised of the write down of investments totaling $170.9 million on certain public and non public equity security investments, partially offset by $7.9 million of net gains realized on the sale of investments and $14.1 million of interest and other income. In 2002, we determined that the decline in value of certain of our public and non public equity securities investments was other than temporary and we recorded a write down of these investments totaling $170.9 million. Our cash, cash equivalents, short term and long term investments decreased to $440.6 million at December 31, 2002 from $928.5 million at December 31, 2001 primarily due to the acquisition of H.O. Systems, purchases of property and equipment and the decline in value and subsequent write down of investments during 2002. These actions resulted in a decrease in interest income earned during 2002 as compared to 2001. Total other expense in 2001 was primarily comprised of the write down of investments totaling $89.1 million on certain public and non public equity security investments, partially offset by $66.7 million of interest and other income. Total other income in 2000 consisted primarily of a realized gain of $32.6 million from the sale of shares of Keynote Systems, Inc., and interest and other income of $53.6 million. In 2001, we determined that the decline in value of certain of our public and non public equity securities investments was 52 Table of Contents other than temporary and we recorded a write down of these investments totaling $89.1 million. We had previously valued certain of these investments at the then fair market value as part of the Network Solutions acquisition. We may from time to time recognize losses or gains from the sales, write downs or write offs of our equity investments. In 2000, our cash and investments base increased significantly as a result of the acquisition of Network Solutions; however, our invested balances produced lower returns due to lower market interest rates in 2001 as compared to 2000. Income tax benefit (expense) In 2002, we recorded income tax expense of $10.4 million. This expense was comprised of federal taxes of $2.1 million, state taxes of $9.2 million, and foreign income tax benefit of $.9 million. We have not recorded a benefit for U.S. federal and state deferred tax assets due to the uncertainty of their realization. As of December 31, 2002, we had federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $18.8 million related to continuing operations and $663.1 million related to stock compensation deductions. We also had state net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $59.6 million related to continuing operations and $515.1 million related to stock compensation deductions. If we are not able to use them, the federal net operating loss carryforwards will expire in 2010 through 2022 and the state net operating loss carryforwards will expire in 2004 through 2022. In addition, we had research and experimentation tax credits for federal income tax purposes of approximately $8.0 million available for carryover to future years, and for state income tax purposes of approximately $6.5 million available for carryover to future years. The federal research and experimentation tax credits will expire, if not utilized, in 2010 through 2022. State research and experimental tax credits carry forward indefinitely until utilized. The Tax Reform Act of 1986 imposes substantial restrictions on the utilization of net operating losses and tax credits in the event of a corporations ownership change, as defined in the Internal Revenue Code. Our ability to utilize net operating loss carryforwards may be limited as a result of such ownership changes. Minority Interest in Net (Income) Loss of Subsidiary Minority interest in the net (income) loss of VeriSign Japan K.K. and VeriSign Australia Limited was $(.4) million in 2002, $(.6) million in 2001 and $(1.3) million in 2000. The year to year changes are primarily due to VeriSign Japans increased revenues as compared to the prior years partially offset by losses incurred by VeriSign Australia following our acquisition of a majority interest in the company in July 2002. As the VeriSign Japan and VeriSign Australia businesses continue to develop and evolve, we expect that the minority interest in net (income) loss of subsidiary will fluctuate. Liquidity and Capital Resources 2002 2001 Change (Dollars in thousands) Cash, cash equivalents and short term investments $ 403,904 $ 726,697 (44 )% Working capital $ (61,041 ) $ 256,714 (124 )% Stockholders equity $ 1,579,425 $ 6,506,074 (76 )% At December 31, 2002, our principal source of liquidity was $403.9 million of cash, cash equivalents and short term investments, consisting principally of commercial paper, medium term corporate notes, corporate bonds and notes, market auction securities, U.S. government and agency securities and money market funds. Working capital decreased $317.8 million over the periods presented due to a decrease in cash, cash equivalents and short term investments of $322.8 million primarily as a result of our acquisition of H.O. Systems in 2002, and due to a decrease in net accounts receivable and other current assets of $163.5 million, partially offset by a decrease in accounts payable and accrued liabilities of $55.1 million and a decrease in current deferred revenue of $113.4 million. 53 Table of Contents Net cash provided by operating activities was $238.4 million in 2002, $227.5 million in 2001 and $192.0 million in 2000. The increase in both 2002 and 2001 was primarily due to an overall increase in net income after adjustments for non cash items such as amortization and the write down of goodwill and other intangible assets, depreciation of property and equipment and the write down of certain investments. Additionally, in 2002 a substantial decrease in accounts receivable partially offset by a decrease in deferred revenue, and accounts payable and accrual liabilities contributed to the increase in net cash provided by operating activities as compared to 2001. Net cash used in investing activities was $282.5 million in 2002, primarily as a result of $348.6 million used for acquisitions which includes $346.3 million for the acquisition of H.O. Systems along with an additional $53.6 million used in acquisition related costs during 2002. We also used $112.1 million for purchases of short and long term investments and $176.2 million for purchases of property and equipment. These purchases were partially offset by proceeds of $403.6 million from maturities and sales of short and long term investments. Net cash used in investing activities was $389.1 million in 2001, primarily as a result of $1.3 billion used for purchases of investments, which were offset by proceeds of $1.4 billion from sales and maturities of investments, $380.3 million used for purchases of property and equipment, including approximately $285 million used for the purchase of the land and buildings for our corporate headquarters in California, and $52.6 million paid, net of cash acquired, for business combinations. Net cash provided by investing activities was $124.0 million in 2000, primarily as a result of the cash acquired in our acquisitions, partially offset by increased purchases of short and long term investments, and costs relating to our acquisitions. Capital expenditures for property and equipment totaled $176.2 million in 2002, $380.3 million in 2001 and $58.8 million in 2000. Our planned capital expenditures for 2003 are approximately $120 million to $130 million, primarily for computer and communications equipment, computer software and leasehold improvements. Our most significant expenditures are focused on market development initiatives as well as productivity and cost improvement. As of December 31, 2002, we also had commitments under non cancelable operating leases for our facilities for various terms through 2014. See Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We also expect to incur additional restructuring charges of approximately $10 to $15 million in the first quarter of 2003 due to the restructuring of our consulting services. In addition, cash payments totaling $23.5 million related to the abandonment of excess facilities will be paid over the next six years. See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Cost savings resulting from our restructuring program, not including other cost savings efforts, were estimated to have been approximately $52 million in 2002 and are estimated to be approximately $56 million in 2003. Net cash provided by financing activities was $22.0 million in 2002, $10.8 million in 2001 and $73.5 million in 2000. In 2002, 2001 and 2000, cash was provided primarily from common stock issuances as a result of stock option exercises. In 2001, these proceeds were partially offset by the use of approximately $70 million to repurchase shares of our common stock. In 2001, our Board of Directors authorized the use of up to $350 million to repurchase shares of our common stock on the open market, or in negotiated or block trades. During 2001, we repurchased approximately 1,650,000 shares at a cost of approximately $70 million. During 2002, no shares were repurchased and at December 31, 2002, approximately $280 million remained available for future repurchases under this program. We believe our existing cash, cash equivalents and short term investments and operating cash flows, will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months. An increase in the number of significant acquisitions or investments to be funded with cash may require us to raise additional funds through public or private financing, strategic relationships or other arrangements. This additional funding, if needed, might not be available on terms attractive to us, or at all. Failure to raise capital 54 Table of Contents when needed could materially harm our business. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity securities, the percentage of our stock owned by our then current stockholders will be reduced. Furthermore, these equity securities might have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock. We have entered into various capital lease obligations and we lease a portion of our facilities under operating leases. We also sub lease a portion of our office space to third parties. In addition, we have signed a master contract with IBM under which we are committed to purchase a pre determined value of their technology and we have entered into an agreement for the management and administration of the .tv ccTLD with the Government of Tuvalu for payments of future royalties. As of December 31, 2002, the present value of our future minimum capital lease payments, our future minimum lease payments under non cancelable operating leases, our future minimum sub lease income, our IBM purchase commitments and our future royalty payments for the next five years are as follows: Commitments by Period 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Total (Dollars in thousands) Capital lease payments (including interest) $ 559 $ $ $ $ $ 559 Operating lease payments 28,242 28,558 25,056 22,540 21,675 126,071 Sub lease income (1,731 ) (1,051 ) (982 ) (519 ) (4,283 ) Purchase commitments 2,052 3,874 5,926 Tuvalu royalty payments 2,200 2,200 2,200 2,200 2,000 10,800 Total $ 31,322 $ 33,581 $ 26,274 $ 22,221 $ 23,675 $ 139,073 We have pledged a portion of our short term investments as collateral for standby letters of credit that guarantee certain of our contractual obligations, primarily relating to our real estate lease agreements. As of December 31, 2002, the amount of short term investments we have pledged pursuant to such agreements was approximately $21 million. The restructuring accrual is included on the balance sheet as accrued restructuring costs. Amounts related to the lease terminations due to the abandonment of excess facilities will be paid over the respective lease terms, the longest of which extends through February 2008. Future cash payments related to lease terminations due to the abandonment of excess facilities are expected to be as follows: (In thousands) 2003 $ 6,403 2004 6,086 2005 4,589 2006 3,038 2007 2,367 Thereafter 1,029 $ 23,512 We entered into an agreement with Bank of America effective June 1, 2000 to provide a capital expenditure loan facility. The capital expenditure loan facility is a $15 million unsecured loan with a five year term. As of December 31, 2002, $720,000 was outstanding under this capital expenditure loan facility. In October 2001, we filed a shelf registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission to offer an indeterminate number of shares of common stock that may be issued at various times and at indeterminate prices, with a total public offering price not to exceed $750 million. To date, no shares have been issued under this registration statement. 55 Table of Contents In December 2001, we signed a master contract with IBM under which we committed to purchase $30 million of IBM technology on or before December 28, 2004. During 2002, we paid IBM $24.1 million and at December 31, 2002, we had an additional $2.1 million of open purchase orders with IBM under the master contract. IBM has also committed to use certain products and services of VeriSign. In November 1999, we entered into an agreement for the management and administration of the Tuvalu Internet top level domain, .tv with the Government of Tuvalu for payments of future royalties which will amount to $12.8 million over the next six years. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements In June 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 146, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities. SFAS No. 146 eliminates Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 94 3 Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity (Including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring). Under SFAS No. 146, liabilities for costs associated with an exit or disposal activity are recognized when the liabilities are incurred, as opposed to being recognized at the date of an entitys commitment to an exit plan under EITF No. 94 3. Furthermore, SFAS No. 146 establishes that fair value is the objective for initial measurement of the liabilities. This Statement will be effective for exit or disposal activities that are initiated after December 31, 2002. The effect of adopting SFAS No. 146 is not expected to have a material effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. The effect on timing of recognition of liabilities could be significantly different from previous restructurings. In December 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 148, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure. SFAS No. 148 amends SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, to provide alternative methods of transition for a voluntary change to the fair value based method of accounting for stock based employee compensation. In addition, SFAS No. 148 amends the disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 123 to require prominent disclosures in both annual and interim financial statements about the method of accounting for stock based employee compensation and the effect of the method used on reported results. The annual disclosure provisions of SFAS No. 148 are presented in Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The interim disclosure provisions are effective for our March 31, 2003 interim period. We have determined that the adoption of SFAS No. 148 will not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In November 2002, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 45, Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness to Others, an interpretation of FASB Statements No. 5, 57 and 107 and a rescission of FASB Interpretation No. 34. This Interpretation elaborates on the disclosures to be made by a guarantor in its interim and annual financial statements about its obligations under guarantees issued. The Interpretation also clarifies that a guarantor is required to recognize, at inception of a guarantee, a liability for the fair value of the obligation undertaken. The initial recognition and measurement provisions of the Interpretation are applicable to guarantees issued or modified after December 31, 2002 and are not expected to have a material effect on our financial statements. The annual disclosure requirements are effective for these financial statements and for interim periods ending after December 15, 2002. See Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for disclosures required by FASB Interpretation No. 45. The adoption of FASB Interpretation No. 45 did not have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In January 2003, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an interpretation of Accounting Research Bulletin (ARB) No. 51. This Interpretation requires companies to include in their consolidated financial statements the assets, liabilities and results of activities of variable interest entities if the company holds a majority of the variable interests. The consolidated requirements of this Interpretation are effective for variable interest entities created after January 31, 2003 or for entities in which an interest is acquired after January 31, 2003. The consolidation requirements of this Interpretation are effective June 15, 2003 for all variable entities acquired before February 1, 2003. This Interpretation also requires companies that expect to consolidate a variable interest entity they acquired before February 1, 2003 to disclose 56 Table of Contents the entities nature, size, activities, and the companys maximum exposure to loss in financial statements issued after January 31, 2003. We have determined this Interpretation will not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Interest rate sensitivity The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal while at the same time maximizing the income we receive from our investments without significantly increasing risk. Some of the securities that we have invested in may be subject to market risk. This means that a change in prevailing interest rates may cause the principal amount of the investment to fluctuate. For example, if we hold a security that was issued with a fixed interest rate at the then prevailing rate and the prevailing interest rate later rises, the principal amount of our investment will probably decline in value. If market interest rates were to increase immediately and uniformly by 10 percent from levels at December 31, 2002, this would not materially change the fair market value of our portfolio. To minimize this risk, we maintain our portfolio of cash equivalents and short term investments in a variety of securities, including commercial paper, medium term notes, corporate bonds and notes, market auction securities, U.S. government and agency securities and money market funds. In general, money market funds are not subject to interest rate risk because the interest paid on such funds fluctuates with the prevailing interest rate. In addition, we generally invest in relatively short term securities. As of December 31, 2002, 70% of our non strategic investments mature in less than one year. We do not hold any derivative financial instruments. The following table presents the amounts of our cash equivalents and investments that are subject to market risk by range of expected maturity and weighted average interest rates as of December 31, 2002. This table does not include money market funds because those funds are not subject to market risk. Maturing in Six Months or Less Six Months to One Year More than One Year Total Estimated Fair Value (Dollars in thousands) Included in cash and cash equivalents $ 128,017 $ $ $ 128,017 $ 128,031 Weighted average interest rate 1.70 % Included in short term investments $ 35,477 $ 10,237 $ 73,617 $ 119,331 $ 119,789 Weighted average interest rate 1.75 % 2.98 % 3.35 % Exchange rate sensitivity We consider our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations to be minimal. All revenues derived from operations, other than VeriSign Japan K.K., THAWTE (South Africa), VeriSign Australia Limited, Domainnames.com (U.K.) and our European digital brand management services business, are denominated in United States Dollars and, therefore, are not subject to exchange rate fluctuations. Revenues from international subsidiaries and affiliates accounted for approximately 9% of our revenues in 2002, 13% in 2001 and 14% in 2000. Both the revenues and expenses of our majority owned subsidiaries in Japan and Australia as well as our wholly owned subsidiaries and sales offices in South Africa, Europe, and the United Kingdom are denominated in local currencies. In these regions, we believe this serves as a natural hedge against exchange rate fluctuations because although an unfavorable change in the exchange rate of the foreign currency against the United States dollar will result in lower revenues when translated to United States Dollars, operating expenses will also be lower in these circumstances. We have not engaged in any hedging activities, although if future events or changes in circumstances indicate that hedging activities would be beneficial, we may consider such activities. 57 Table of Contents Equity price risk We own shares of common stock of public companies. We value these investments using the closing market value for the last day of each month. These investments are subject to market price volatility. We reflect these investments on our balance sheet at their market value, with the unrealized gains and losses excluded from earnings and reported in the Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) component of stockholders equity. We have also invested in equity instruments of several privately held companies, many of which can still be considered in the startup or development stages, and therefore, carry a high level of risk. In 2002 and 2001, we determined the decline in value of certain public and non public equity investments was other than temporary and we recognized impairment losses totaling $170.9 million and $89.1 million, respectively. Due to the inherent risk associated with some of our investments, and in light of current stock market conditions, we may incur future losses on the sales, write downs or write offs of our investments. We do not currently hedge against equity price changes. 
 
