ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS Except for historical information, this Report contains forward looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, including, among other things, statements regarding our anticipated costs and expenses and revenue mix. Forward looking statements include, among others, those statements including the words expects, anticipates, intends, believes and similar language. Our actual results may differ significantly from those projected in the forward looking statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Item 1A Risk Factors. You should carefully review the risks described in other documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Quarterly Reports on Form 10 Q or Current Reports on Form 8 K that we filed in 2007. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. We undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to the forward looking statements or reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document. Business Overview We operate infrastructure services that enable and protect billions of interactions every day across the worlds voice, video and data networks. We offer a variety of Internet and communications related services, which are marketed through Web site sales, direct field sales, channel sales, telesales, and member organizations in our global affiliate network. Our business consists of two reportable segments: the Internet Services Group and the Communications Services Group. The Internet Services Group consists of the Information and Security Services business and the Naming Services business. The Information and Security Services business provides products and services that protect online and network interactions, enabling companies to manage reputational, operational and compliance risks. The Naming Services business is the authoritative directory provider of all .com, .net, .cc, and .tv domain names. The Communications Services Group provides communications services, such as connectivity and interoperability services and intelligent database services; commerce services, such as billing and operational support system services, and mobile commerce services; and content services, such as digital content and messaging services. In late 2007, we announced a change to our business strategy to be more tightly aligned with our core competencies, which is providing highly scaleable, reliable and secure Internet infrastructure services to customers around the world. The strategy calls for divesture of a number of non core businesses in our portfolio, such as communications, billing and commerce, content delivery, messaging and enterprise security services. By divesting these non core businesses, additional resources should be available to invest in the core businesses that will remain: Naming Services, SSL Certificate Services, and Identity and Authentication services. We face a number of risks associated with our plan to divest ourselves of several non core businesses. The operations of these businesses will be classified as discontinued operations when all criteria of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 144 (SFAS 144), Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets, are met. All of such criteria were not met as of December 31, 2007. As a result of these divestitures in 2008, we would expect revenues, operating expenses and operating income from continuing operations to decrease in absolute dollars and expect a reduction in the number of employees. Effective January 1, 2007, we adopted a functional business structure that realigned the Internet Services Group and the Communications Services Group to deliver products and services on an integrated basis through two main functional units: Sales and Consulting Services and Products and Marketing. The Sales and Consulting Services group is aligned by vertical industry and combines our multiple sales functions, in market consulting services, and business development teams. The Products and Marketing group combines our product 41 Table of Contents management, product development, marketing and customer support functions, as well as a new innovation team chartered with looking at longer term product line synergies and emerging market trends. With our decision to divest all non core business lines, the businesses identified for sale have retained (or are in the process of developing) separate sales, consulting, product marketing and other capabilities that would have otherwise been delivered through our Sales and Consulting Services and Products and Marketing organizations. 2007 Business Highlights Total revenues from our Internet Services Group increased $158.2 million, primarily due to continued growth in our Naming Services and Information and Security Services businesses. Total revenues from our Communications Services Group decreased $224.9 million, primarily due to a decline in revenues that resulted from the divestiture of our majority ownership interest in our Jamba business unit in January 2007. We saw a 24% increase in 2007 in active domain names for .com and .net under management. The increase is primarily due to increased demand for new domain names and high renewal rates for existing domain names. We saw a 16% increase in 2007 in our installed base of SSL certificates. The growth is driven by increased demand for our VeriSign, GeoTrust and thawte branded certificates. In January 2007, we sold 51% of our ownership interest in our Jamba subsidiary to Fox Entertainment (Fox), a subsidiary of News Corporation, for approximately $192.4 million in cash. Our total net gain from the divestiture was approximately $68.2 million. In August 2007, we issued $1.25 billion principal amount of 3.25% junior subordinated convertible debentures due August 15, 2037, to an initial purchaser in a private offering. We received net proceeds of $1.22 billion after deduction of issuance costs of $25.8 million. We used the proceeds from the issuance of the convertible debentures to repurchase approximately 38.0 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate cost of approximately $1.15 billion. In the fourth quarter of 2007, we recorded an impairment charge of $182.2 million, $62.6 million and $4.3 million for goodwill, other intangible assets and property and equipment, respectively, related to our Content Services business reporting unit. Acquisitions We did not make any acquisitions in fiscal 2007. In 2006, we paid approximately $633.3 million to acquire the following companies: inCode Telecom Group, Inc., a privately held consulting firm for the wireless industry in November 2006; GeoTrust, Inc., a privately held provider of digital certificates and identity verification solutions in September 2006; m Qube, Inc., a privately held mobile channel enabler that helps companies develop, deliver and bill for mobile content, applications and messaging services in May 2006; Kontiki, Inc., a provider of broadband content services in March 2006; 3united Mobile Solutions ag, a provider of wireless application services in February 2006; CallVision, Inc., a privately held provider of online analysis applications for mobile communications customers in January 2006; and other acquisitions that were not material on a individual basis or in the aggregate. In 2005, we paid approximately $436.4 million to acquire the following companies: Retail Solutions International, Inc., a privately held provider of operational point of sale data to the retail industry in October 2005; Moreover Technologies, Inc., a privately held wholesale aggregator of real time internet content in October 2005; siteRock K.K., a Japan based privately held remote network monitoring and outage managing handling firm in October 2005; iDefense, Inc., a privately held provider of detailed intelligence on network based threats, vulnerabilities and malicious code July 2005; LightSurf Technologies, Inc., a privately held provider of multimedia messaging and interoperability solutions for the wireless market in April 2005; and another acquisition that was not material on an individual basis. 42 Table of Contents We account for all of our significant acquisitions as business combinations using the purchase method of accounting in accordance with SFAS No. 141, Business Combinations. Accordingly, the acquired companies revenues, costs and expenses have been included in our results of operations beginning with their dates of acquisition. As a result of our acquisitions in 2006 and 2005, revenues, costs and expenses for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005 may not be comparable. See Note 3, Business Combinations, of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding our business acquisitions over the last three years. Joint Ventures On January 31, 2007, we entered into two joint venture agreements with Fox, a subsidiary of News Corporation, to provide mobile entertainment to consumers on a global basis. Fox paid VeriSign approximately $192.4 million in cash for a 51% ownership interest in Jamba and we paid Fox approximately $4.9 million in cash for its contribution of Fox Mobile Entertainment assets. As a result, Fox owns a 51% interest and VeriSign owns a 49% interest in the joint ventures. We recognized a gain of approximately $68.2 million upon the divestiture of our majority ownership interest in Jamba and recorded our interests in the joint ventures as Investments in unconsolidated entities as of December 31, 2007. During the third quarter of 2007, we invested $17.2 million in the joint ventures pursuant to capital calls approved by the board of managers of the joint ventures. The purpose of the capital calls was to fund the ongoing business and working capital needs of the joint ventures. Under the terms of the joint venture agreements, we have agreed to invest an additional amount of approximately $15.6 million in the two joint ventures. In 2007, we provided a working capital loan of $15.0 million under a promissory note to the joint ventures. This loan is outstanding as of December 31, 2007, and is included in Other assets. In connection with the joint ventures, VeriSign and Fox entered into various put and call agreements. We calculated the initial fair value of our written call options to be $10.9 million using the Black Scholes option pricing model. We recorded the fair value of the call options within other long term liabilities, and will mark to market the call options at each reporting period. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we recorded an unrealized gain of $10.9 million, on joint venture call options within Other income, net. See Note 2, Joint Ventures, of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding our joint ventures. Discontinued Operations We account for discontinued operations when all criteria of SFAS 144 are met. Accordingly, we have reclassified the financial data for all periods presented to reflect the following discontinued operations: Jamba Service business In September 2007, we sold our wholly owned Jamba Service GmbH subsidiary (Jamba Service), which marketed insurance and extended service warranties to consumers for mobile electronic equipment and products, for approximately $12.8 million in cash and recorded a net gain of $1.4 million. Jamba Service operations were recorded through August 31, 2007. Jamba Service was part of the Communications Services Group segment. Payment Gateway business On November 18, 2005, we completed the sale of certain assets related to our Payment Gateway business to PayPal, Inc. and PayPal International Limited for $370 million in cash. The Payment Gateway business was part of the Internet Services Group. 43 Table of Contents Subsequent Events In January and February of 2008, we repurchased 13.3 million shares of our common stock under the 2006 stock repurchase program for an aggregate cost of $451.9 million. As of February 28, we have approximately $532.7 million available under the 2006 stock repurchase program. On January 31, 2008, our Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program (2008 stock repurchase program) having an aggregate purchase price of up to $600 million of our common stock. On February 8, 2008, we announced that we entered into an Accelerated Share Repurchase (ASR) agreement to repurchase $600 million of our common stock under the 2008 stock repurchase program and announced an intent to repurchase up to an additional $200 million in open market transactions under the 2006 stock repurchase program. We paid $600 million to a financial institution in exchange for a number of shares, which will be determined, subject to a cap, based on market prices during the term of the ASR agreement. Through February 28, 2008 we received 15.1 million shares under the ASR agreement. We expect to complete the ASR by the end of the third quarter of 2008, although in certain circumstances the completion date may be shortened or extended. On February 20, 2008, our Board of Directors approved the sale of our Digital Brand Management Services business unit, one of the businesses within the Internet Services Group. In accordance with SFAS 144, the associated assets and liabilities of this business will be classified as held for sale and its operations will be reported as discontinued operations in the first quarter of 2008. Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Management Estimates The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, allowance for doubtful accounts, goodwill, long lived assets, restructuring liability, contingent convertible debt, stock based compensation and income taxes. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and on various assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily available from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe the following critical accounting policies have the most significant impact on our judgment and estimates used in preparing our consolidated financial statements: Revenue recognition We recognize revenues in accordance with current generally accepted accounting principles. Revenue recognition requirements are complex rules which require us to make judgments and estimates. In applying our revenue recognition policy, we must determine which portions of our revenue are recognized currently and which portions must be deferred. In order to determine current and deferred revenue, we make judgments and estimates with regard to the products and services to be provided. Our assumptions and judgments regarding products and services could differ from actual events. Revenues from consulting services are recognized either on a time and materials basis as the services are performed, or for fixed price consulting as services are performed, completed and accepted. In some cases, fixed price consulting is measured using the proportional performance method of accounting. Proportional performance is based upon the ratio of hours incurred to total hours estimated to be incurred for the project. We 44 Table of Contents have a history of accurately estimating project status and the hours required to complete projects. If different conditions were to prevail such that accurate estimates could not be made, then the use of the completed contract method would be required and all revenue and costs would be deferred until the project was completed. Revenues from time and materials are recognized as services are performed. In June 2006, the FASB issued EITF No. 06 3 (EITF 06 3), How Taxes Collected from Customers and Remitted to Governmental Authorities Should Be Presented in the Income Statement. EITF 06 3 provides guidance on an entitys disclosure of its accounting policy regarding the gross or net presentation of certain taxes and provides that if taxes included in gross revenues are significant, a company should disclose the amount of such taxes for each period for which an income statement is presented (i.e., both interim and annual periods). Taxes within the scope of EITF 06 3 are those that are imposed on and concurrent with a specific revenue producing transaction. We record transaction based taxes on a net basis. These taxes are recorded as current liabilities until remitted to the relevant government authority. Allowance for doubtful accounts We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. We regularly review the adequacy of our accounts receivable allowance after considering the size of the accounts receivable balance, each customers expected ability to pay and our collection history with each customer. We review significant invoices that are past due to determine if an allowance is appropriate based on the risk category using the factors described above. In addition, we maintain a general reserve for certain invoices by applying a percentage based on the age category. We require all acquired companies to adopt our credit policies. The allowance for doubtful accounts represents our best estimate, but changes in circumstances relating to accounts receivable may result in a requirement for additional allowances in the future. As of December 31, 2007, the allowance for doubtful accounts represented approximately 3% of total accounts receivable, or approximately $6.3 million. A change of 100 basis points in our estimate would amount to approximately $2.1 million. The following table shows a comparison of our bad debt expense: 2007 2006 2005 Provision for doubtful accounts $ 850 $ (1,165 ) $ 1,041 Valuation of goodwill and other intangible assets Goodwill represents the excess of costs over fair value of net assets of businesses acquired. Goodwill and other intangible assets acquired in a business combination and determined to have an indefinite useful life are not amortized, but instead tested for impairment at least annually in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 142 (SFAS 142), Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. In accordance with SFAS 142, such goodwill and other intangible assets may also be tested for impairment between annual tests in the presence of impairment indicators such as: (a) a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate; (b) an adverse action or assessment by a regulator; (c) unanticipated competition; (d) loss of key personnel; (e) a more likely than not expectation of sale or disposal of a reporting unit or a significant portion thereof; (f) testing for recoverability under SFAS 144 of a significant asset group within a reporting unit; (g) recognition of a goodwill impairment loss in the financial statements of a subsidiary that is a component of a reporting unit. We performed our annual impairment tests as of June 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005. The fair value of our reporting units is determined using either the income or the market valuation approach or a combination thereof. Under the income approach, the fair value of the reporting unit is based on the present value of estimated future cash flows that the reporting unit is expected to generate over its remaining life. Under the market approach, the value of the reporting unit is based on an analysis that compares the value of the reporting unit to values of publicly traded companies in similar lines of business. In the application of the income and market valuation approaches, we are required to make estimates of future operating trends and judgments on discount rates and other variables. Actual 45 Table of Contents future results related to assumed variables could differ from these estimates. There were no impairment charges for goodwill from the annual impairment tests conducted as of June 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005. At December 31, 2007, we performed an additional impairment test primarily as a result of our decision to divest our non core businesses. As a result of the impairment test, we recorded an impairment charge of $182.2 million, $62.6 million and $4.3 million for goodwill, other intangible assets and property and equipment, respectively, related to our Content Services business reporting unit. See Note 7, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. The process of evaluating the potential impairment of goodwill is highly subjective and requires significant judgment at many points during the analysis. In estimating the fair value of the businesses with recognized goodwill for the purposes of its annual or periodic analyses, the Company makes estimates and judgments about the future cash flows of these businesses. Although the Companys cash flow forecasts are based on assumptions that are consistent with the plans and estimates it is using to manage the underlying businesses, there is significant judgment in determining the cash flows attributable to these businesses over their estimated remaining useful lives. The Company also considers its market capitalization on the date it performs the analysis. As the Company divests its non core businesses, it may incur further charges for impairment of goodwill in the future if the net book value of its reporting units exceeds the estimated fair value. Any additional future impairment charges could adversely affect the Companys earnings. Valuation of long lived assets Our long lived assets consist primarily of property and equipment and purchased intangible assets subject to amortization. We review long lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that we will not be able to recover the assets carrying amount in accordance with SFAS 144. Such events or circumstances include, but are not limited to, a significant decrease in the fair value of the underlying business or asset, a significant decrease in the benefits realized from the acquired business, difficulty and delays in integrating the business or a significant change in the operations of the acquired business or use of an asset. Recoverability of long lived assets is measured by comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to estimated undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its estimated future cash flows, an impairment charge is recognized by the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair value. Any such impairment charge could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our reported financial statements. Restructuring charges We record restructuring charges related to workforce reduction in accordance with SFAS No. 112 (SFAS 112), Employers Accounting for Postemployment Benefits an amendment of FASB Statements No. 5 and 43, since benefits are provided pursuant to a severance plan which uses a standard formula of paying benefits based upon tenure with the Company. The accounting for such restructuring charges meets the four requirements of SFAS 112 which are: (i) our obligation relating to employees rights to receive compensation for future absences is attributable to employees services already rendered; (ii) the obligation relates to rights that vest or accumulate; (iii) payment of the compensation is probable; and (iv) the amount can be reasonably estimated. We record restructuring charges related to excess facilities and other exit costs in accordance with SFAS No. 146 (SFAS 146), Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities. SFAS 146 requires that a liability for costs associated with an exit or disposal activity be measured and recognized initially at fair value only when the liability is incurred. Excess facilities restructuring charges take into account the fair value of lease obligations of the abandoned space, including the potential for sublease income. Estimating the amount of sublease income requires management to make estimates for the space that will be rented, the rate per square foot that might be received and the vacancy period of each property. These estimates could differ materially from actual amounts due to changes in the real estate markets in which the properties are located, such as the supply of 46 Table of Contents office space and prevailing lease rates. Changing market conditions by location and considerable work with third party leasing companies require us to periodically review each lease and change our estimates on a prospective basis, as necessary. Contingent convertible debentures We account for our contingent convertible debentures and related provisions in accordance with the provisions of EITF No. 98 5, Accounting for Convertible Securities with Beneficial Conversion Features or Contingently Adjustable Conversion Ratios, EITF No. 00 27, Application of Issue No. 98 5 to Certain Convertible Instruments, EITF No. 00 19, Accounting for Derivative Financial Instruments Indexed to, and Potentially Settled in, a Companys Own Stock, and EITF No. 01 6, The Meaning of Indexed to a Companys Own Stock, EITF No. 04 08 (EITF 04 08), The Effect of Contingently Convertible Debt on Diluted Earnings Per Share and EITF 90 19, Convertible Bonds with Issuer Option to Settle for Cash upon Conversion. We also evaluate the instruments in accordance with SFAS No. 133 (SFAS 133), Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, which requires bifurcation of embedded derivative instruments and measurement of fair value for accounting purposes. EITF 04 08 requires us to include the dilutive effect of the shares of our common stock issuable upon conversion of the outstanding convertible debentures in our diluted income per share calculation regardless of whether the market price trigger or other contingent conversion feature has been met. We apply the treasury stock method as we have the intent and the current ability to settle the principal amount of the convertible debentures in cash. This method results in incremental dilutive shares when the average fair value of our common stock for a reporting period exceeds the initial conversion price per share of $34.37. We consider the embedded features related to the contingent interest payments, over allotment option, and our ability to make specific types of distributions (e.g., extraordinary dividends) to qualify as derivatives, and bundle them as a compound embedded derivative under SFAS 133. The fair value of the derivative at the date of issuance of the debentures is accounted for as a discount on the debentures. The over allotment feature which was revalued on the date of exercise is accounted for as a premium on the debentures. The debt discount and the debt premium are being accreted to the face value of the debentures as interest expense, net, over the maturity period of the debentures. Any change in the fair value of this embedded derivative is recognized as an unrealized gain or loss in Other income, net. We account for our investments in joint ventures as equity method investments, based on our ability to exert significant influence but not control over the joint ventures. VeriSign records its investments at the amount of capital contributed plus its percentage interest in the joint ventures earnings or loss. We regularly review the operating and financial results based on information provided by these joint ventures, and determine the fair values of these investments based on a valuation performed using the income approach and the market approach. If it is determined that an other than temporary decline exists in the fair values of these investments, we write down the investments to their fair value and record the related impairments in earnings from unconsolidated entities. Stock based compensation Effective January 1, 2006, we adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 123R (SFAS 123R), Share Based Payment. SFAS 123R replaced SFAS No. 123 (SFAS 123), Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, and superseded Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25 (APB 25), Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees. We elected the modified prospective application method, under which prior periods are not revised for comparative purposes. The valuation provisions of SFAS 123R apply to new grants and to grants that were outstanding as of the effective date and are subsequently modified. For stock based awards granted on or after January 1, 2006, we will amortize stock based compensation expense on a straight line basis over the requisite service period, which is the vesting period. Estimated compensation for grants that were outstanding as of the effective date will be recognized over the remaining service period using the compensation costs estimated for the SFAS 123 pro forma disclosures. 47 Table of Contents We currently use the Black Scholes option pricing model to determine the fair value of stock options and employee stock purchase plan shares. The determination of the fair value of stock based awards on the date of grant using an option pricing model is affected by our stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of complex and subjective variables. These variables include our expected stock price volatility over the term of the awards, actual and projected employee stock option exercise behaviors, risk free interest rate and expected dividends. We estimate the expected term of options granted based on observed and expected time to post vesting exercise and or cancellations. Expected volatility is based on the combination of historical volatility of our common stock over the period commensurate with the expected life of the options and the mean historical implied volatility from traded options. We base the risk free interest rate that we use in the option pricing model on U.S. Treasury zero coupon issues with remaining terms similar to the expected term on the options. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future and therefore use an expected dividend yield of zero in the option pricing model. We are required to estimate forfeitures at the time of grant and revise those estimates in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. We use historical data to estimate pre vesting option forfeitures and record stock based compensation expense only for those awards that are expected to vest. All stock based awards are amortized on a straight line basis over the requisite service periods of the awards, which are generally the vesting periods. We use the Monte Carlo simulation option pricing model to determine the fair value of market based awards. The Monte Carlo simulation option pricing model takes into account the same input assumptions as the Black Scholes model; however, it also further incorporates into the fair value determination, the possibility that the market condition may not be satisfied and the impact of the possible differing stock price paths. Compensation costs related to awards with a market based condition will be recognized regardless of whether the market condition is satisfied, provided that the requisite service has been provided. The stock based compensation expense for market based awards is recognized on a straight line basis over the requisite service period for each such award. If factors change and we employ different assumptions for estimating stock based compensation expense in future periods or if we decide to use a different valuation model, the future periods may differ significantly from what we have recorded in the current period and could materially affect our operating income, net income and net income per share. See Note 13, Stock Based Compensation, of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the SFAS 123R disclosures. Income taxes We adopted FASB Interpretation Number 48 (FIN 48), Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109, on January 1, 2007. FIN 48 is an interpretation of SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, and it seeks to reduce the diversity in practice associated with certain aspects of measurement and recognition in accounting for income taxes. FIN 48 prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position that an entity takes or expects to take in a tax return. Additionally, FIN 48 provides guidance on de recognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosures, and transition. Under FIN 48, an entity may only recognize or continue to recognize tax positions that meet a more likely than not threshold. In accordance with our accounting policy, we recognize accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as a component of income tax expense. The cumulative effect of adopting FIN 48 was a decrease in income taxes payable of $9.3 million, an increase in long term deferred tax assets of $26.2 million, and a decrease in the January 1, 2007, accumulated deficit balance of $35.5 million. Included in this amount is an adjustment made by the Company to increase accumulated deficit by $2.5 million in the fourth quarter of 2007. At the adoption date of January 1, 2007, we had an unrecognized tax benefit for income taxes associated with uncertain tax positions of $45.0 million. As of December 31, 2007, this amount was $41.4 million. 48 Table of Contents See Note 14, Income Taxes, of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the adoption of FIN 48. Discontinued Operations In accordance with SFAS 144, we report businesses or asset groups as discontinued operations when the operations and cash flows of the business or asset group have been or will be eliminated, when we will not have any continuing involvement with the business or asset group after the disposal transaction, and when we have met the following additional six criteria: Management with the authority to do so, commits to a plan to sell the business or asset group; The business or asset group is available for immediate sale; An active program to sell the business or asset group has been initiated; The sale of the business or asset group is probable within one year; The marketed sales value of the business or asset group is reasonable in relation to its current fair value; and It is unlikely that the plan to sell the business or asset group will be significantly altered or withdrawn. We did not have any assets held for sale as of December 31, 2007. Results of Operations The following table sets forth selected information regarding our results of operations as a percentage of revenues: Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 Revenues 100 % 100 % 100 % Costs and expenses Cost of revenues 40 37 32 Sales and marketing 18 24 30 Research and development 11 8 6 General and administrative 18 16 11 Restructuring, impairments and other charges (reversals), net 7 1 Impairment of goodwill 12 Amortization of other intangible assets 8 8 6 Acquired in process research and development 1 Total costs and expenses 114 94 86 Operating (loss) income (14 ) 6 14 Other (loss) income, net 6 3 3 (Loss) income from continuing operations before income taxes, earnings from unconsolidated entities and minority interest (8 ) 9 17 Income tax (expense) benefit (1 ) 16 (6 ) Loss from unconsolidated entities, net of tax Minority interest, net of tax Net (loss) income from continuing operations (9 ) 25 11 Net income from discontinued operations, net of tax Gain on sale of discontinued operations, net of tax 16 Net (loss) income (9 )% 25 % 27 % 49 Table of Contents Revenues by Segment In 2007, 2006 and 2005, we had two reportable segments: the Internet Services Group and the Communications Services Group. A comparison of revenues from continuing operations is presented below: 2007 %Change 2006 %Change 2005 (Dollars in thousands) Internet Services Group $ 916,984 21 % $ 758,763 20 % $ 633,784 Communications Services Group 579,305 (28 )% 804,235 (17 )% 970,793 Total revenues $ 1,496,289 (4 )% $ 1,562,998 (3 )% $ 1,604,577 Internet Services Group (ISG) 2007 compared to 2006: Revenues from our ISG increased by approximately $158.2 million. Our Naming Services revenues increased $91.9 million due to a 24% increase in the number of active domain names ending in .com and .net under management. The growth in .com and .net domain names was driven by continued global Internet adoption and strong renewal rates of existing domains. Our Information and Security Services revenues increased $55.7 million primarily due to a $43.9 million increase in SSL Certificate services revenues that was the result of a 16% increase in the installed base of SSL certificates and recognizing a full year of revenues from the GeoTrust acquisition in late 2006. Additional increases in our Information and Security Services revenues were primarily due to increases in our VeriSign Identity Protection services and our United Authentication services that was the result of an increase in demand for secure real time validation capabilities. 2006 compared to 2005: Revenues from our ISG increased by approximately $125.0 million. Our Naming Services revenues increased $69.4 million due to a 30% increase in the number of active domain names ending in .com and .net under management. Our Information and Security Services revenues increased $55.6 million primarily due to a $29.3 million increase in SSL certificate revenues that was the result of a 65% increase in the installed base of SSL certificates, an $11.9 million increase in our managed security services and security consulting revenues, and a $14.4 million increase in other information services revenues. The 65% increase in the installed base of SSL certificates was primarily due to the 259,000 additional certificates acquired as a result of the acquisition of GeoTrust in September of 2006. Excluding the GeoTrust transaction, the installed base of SSL certificates would have increased 12% year over year. The following table compares active domain names ending in .com and .net managed by our Information Services business and the approximate installed base of SSL certificates in our commerce site services business as of the end of each year presented: December 31,2007 %Change December 31,2006 %Change December 31,2005 Active domain names ending in .com and .net 80.4 million 24 % 65.0 million 30 % 50.0 million Installed base of SSL certificates 938,000 16 % 807,000 65 % 489,000 Communications Services Group (CSG) 2007 compared to 2006: Revenues from our CSG decreased approximately $224.9 million, primarily due to a decrease in revenues directly related to the divestiture of our majority ownership interest in our Jamba business unit in January 2007. In 2007, we recognized one month of Jamba revenues totaling $23.8 million and in 2006 we recognized twelve months of Jamba revenues totaling $285.4 million. Our Commerce and Communications Services revenues decreased by $41.0 million primarily due to a $21.4 million decrease in commerce and billing services revenues and a $19.6 million decrease in communication services revenues. The decrease in revenues from commerce and billing services was primarily due to a $20.6 million decline in payment service revenues and the decrease in revenues from communications services was primarily due to 50 Table of Contents declines in revenues from connectivity and signaling services and intelligent data base services that resulted from continued industry consolidation among telecommunication companies and pricing pressures. These declines were offset by a $44.9 million increase in professional communications consulting services revenues which was primarily due to our acquisition of inCode in December 2006, and a $32.4 million increase in Content Services revenues which was primarily due to recognizing a full year of revenues in 2007 for acquisitions in 2006. 2006 compared to 2005: Revenues from our CSG decreased approximately $166.6 million primarily due to a decrease in our Content Services revenues, which includes our digital content, messaging and mobile delivery services, of $159.4 million. The decrease in content services revenues was primarily due to a $237.7 million decrease in revenues from Jamba, partially offset by a $26.0 million increase in messaging services revenues and a $46.2 million increase in revenues as a result of 2006 acquisitions. The decline in our Content Services business was primarily attributable to increased pricing pressure and a decline in the number of subscribers. Our Commerce and Communications Services revenues decreased by $7.8 million compared to 2005. The decrease in revenues was primarily due to a $13.4 million decrease in clearing and settlement services and a $6.7 million decrease in connectivity and database services. These declines were primarily due to industry consolidation and pricing pressures. These declines were partially offset by $6.4 million increase in revenues from billing and payment services, which was primarily due to the result of an increase in the number of subscribers. Revenues in 2006 include $57.8 million in additional revenue as a result of acquisitions in 2006. Revenues by Geographic Region Our revenues are broken out into three geographic regions consisting of the Americas, EMEA and APAC. The following table presents a comparison of our continuing revenues by geographic region: Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (In thousands) Americas: United States $ 1,248,071 $ 1,104,594 $ 1,012,448 Other (1) 34,028 40,119 25,214 Total Americas 1,282,099 1,144,713 1,037,662 EMEA (2) 116,899 300,635 468,308 APAC (3) 97,291 117,650 98,607 Total revenues $ 1,496,289 $ 1,562,998 $ 1,604,577 (1) Canada and Latin America (Americas) (2) Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA) (3) Australia, Japan and Asia Pacific (APAC) 2007 compared to 2006: Revenues increased approximately $137.4 million in the Americas region primarily as a result of the increase in domain names ending in .com and .net under management coupled with an increase in the installed base of SSL certificates. Revenues in our EMEA region decreased approximately $183.7 million primarily due to the divestiture of our majority ownership interest of our Jamba business unit. Revenues in our APAC region decreased approximately $20.4 million primarily due to the divestiture of our majority ownership interest in our Jamba business unit in the region, offset by an increase in security services revenues in both Japan and Australia. 2006 compared to 2005: Revenues increased approximately $107.1 million in the Americas region primarily as a result of the increase in domain names ending in .com and .net under management coupled with an increase in the installed base of SSL certificates. Revenues in our EMEA region decreased approximately $167.7 million primarily due to a decrease in revenues from Jamba business unit in the region. The increase in APAC revenues of approximately $19.0 million was attributed to increased enterprise security revenues in both Japan and Australia and increased managed security services revenue in Japan. 51 Table of Contents We primarily operate in the United States, Europe, Japan, Australia, Latin America, South Africa and India. In general, revenues are attributed to the country in which the contract originated. However, revenues from all digital certificates issued from the Mountain View, California facility and domain names issued from the Dulles, Virginia facility are attributed to the United States because it is impracticable to determine the country of origin. Cost of Revenues Cost of revenues consist primarily of content licensing costs, carrier costs for our SS7 and IP based networks, costs related to providing digital certificate enrollment and issuance services, billing services, operational costs for the domain name registration business, customer support and training, consulting and development services, operational costs related to the management and monitoring of our clients network security infrastructures, labor costs to provide security and communications consulting, and costs of facilities and computer equipment used in these activities. A comparison of cost of revenues is presented below: 2007 %Change 2006 %Change 2005 (Dollars in thousands) Cost of revenues $ 596,517 4 % $ 574,762 13 % $ 508,509 2007 compared to 2006: Cost of revenues increased approximately $21.8 million primarily due to recognizing a full year of expenses for the acquisition of inCode in November 2006, partially offset by a reduction of expenses due to the divestiture of our majority ownership interest of our Jamba business unit in January 2007. Salary and employee benefits increased by $20.2 million, primarily due to company wide merit pay increases in base pay and recognizing a full year of salary expenses that was a result of the acquisition of inCode, GeoTrust and m Qube during the latter half of 2006. Stock based compensation expense increased approximately $5.0 million primarily due to an increase in the issuances of restricted stock to employees and a modification expense pertaining to our employee stock purchase plan that allowed employees to increase their contribution withholding percentages in 2007. Depreciation expense increased approximately $8.1 million primarily due to an increase in capitalized projects placed into service and telecommunication expenses increased by $10.7 million primarily due to additional bandwidth costs needed to support our 2006 acquisitions. Expenses related primarily to redeployed employees of $11.5 million were included in cost of revenues from the general and administrative expenses category due to the realignment of business divisions as a result of the 2007 restructuring plan. Direct cost of revenues decreased by $23.0 million primarily due to a discontinuance of product lines and a reduction in spending that was a result of managements strategy to reduce costs. Contract and professional services decreased by approximately $13.3 million primarily due to reduction in third party costs associated with our acquisitions. 2006 compared to 2005: Cost of revenues increased approximately $66.3 million primarily due to the business acquisitions completed during 2006 and a full year of expenses for the business acquisitions completed in 2005. Salary and employee benefit costs increased approximately $38.4 million primarily due to a 30% increase in headcount primarily related to completed business acquisitions in 2006, merit increases and increase in bonus payments. Stock compensation expense increased $13.8 million primarily as a result of the adoption of SFAS 123R in 2006. Contract and professional services increased approximately $13.9 million in 2006, primarily due to increased third party customer care services, an increase in the use of contractors to support new product initiatives and the addition of acquisitions. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of costs related to sales, marketing and policy activities. These expenses include salaries, sales commissions, sales operations and other personnel related expenses, travel and related expenses, trade shows, costs of lead generation, costs of computer and communications equipment 52 Table of Contents and support services, facilities costs, consulting fees and costs of marketing programs, such as internet, television, radio, print and direct mail advertising costs. A comparison of sales and marketing expenses is presented below: 2007 %Change 2006 %Change 2005 (Dollars in thousands) Sales and marketing $ 276,632 (27 )% $ 376,508 (21 )% $ 477,752 2007 compared to 2006: Sales and marketing expenses decreased approximately $99.9 million primarily due to a decrease of approximately $120.3 million in advertising and marketing expense that was primarily due to the result of managements cost reduction efforts and the divestiture of our majority ownership interest in our Jamba business in January 2007. Salary and employee benefits increased approximately $14.0 million primarily due to recognizing a full year of expense for headcount from our acquisitions of inCode, GeoTrust and m Qube during the later half of 2006, partially offset by a reduction of employees due to the 2007 restructuring plan and the divestiture of our majority ownership interest in Jamba. Stock based compensation expense increased approximately $5.9 million primarily due to an increase in the issuances of restricted stock to employees and a modification expense pertaining to our employee stock purchase plan that allowed employees to increase their contribution withholding percentages in 2007. Expenses related primarily to redeployed employees of $3.1 million were included in sales and marketing from the general and administrative expense category due to the realignment of business divisions as a result of the 2007 restructuring plan. 2006 compared to 2005: Sales and marketing expenses decreased approximately $101.2 million primarily due to a decrease of approximately $144.7 million in advertising and marketing expense that was primarily due to the result of significant marketing cutbacks for our content services business. Salary and employee benefits increased approximately $14.8 million due to a 30% increase in headcount primarily related to the business acquisitions completed in 2006, and an increase in bonus and commission payments. Stock compensation expense increased $15.0 million as a result of the adoption of SFAS 123R. Travel expense increased approximately $5.5 million primarily due to an increase in headcount related to our business acquisitions in 2006. Contract and professional services increased approximately $4.1 million as a result of policy efforts directly related to the renewal of the ICANN agreement. Research and Development Research and development expenses consist primarily of costs related to research and development personnel, including salaries and other personnel related expenses, consulting fees and the costs of facilities, computer and communications equipment and support services used in service and technology development. We believe that continued development of new and enhanced services and technologies are necessary to maintain our leadership position in the marketplace. Accordingly, we intend to continue to recruit experienced research and development personnel both domestically and internationally and to make other investments in research and development. A comparison of research and development is presented below: 2007 %Change 2006 %Change 2005 (Dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 160,186 24 % $ 129,256 35 % $ 95,572 2007 compared to 2006: Research and development expenses increased approximately $30.9 million primarily due to recognizing a full year of expenses for the acquisitions of inCode, GeoTrust and m Qube during 53 Table of Contents the latter half of 2006, partially offset by a reduction of expenses due to the divestiture of our majority ownership interest in Jamba in January 2007. Salary and employee benefit costs increased $19.7 million primarily due to merit pay increases and additional headcount expense related to the acquisitions in 2006. Stock based compensation expense increased approximately $4.0 million primarily due to an increase in the issuances of restricted stock to employees and a modification expense pertaining to our employee stock purchase plan that allowed employees to increase their contribution withholding percentages in 2007. Expenses related primarily to redeployed employees of $12.3 million were included in research and development from the general and administrative expense category due to the realignment of business divisions as a result of the 2007 restructuring plan. Contract and professional services decreased by $8.1 million primarily due to a decrease in the use of external consultants for research and development projects in 2007. 2006 compared to 2005: Research and development expenses increased approximately $33.7 million primarily due to additional expenses from the business acquisitions completed during 2006 and a full year of expenses for the completed business acquisitions in fiscal 2005. Salary and employee benefit costs increased $17.6 million due to a 28% increase in headcount. Occupancy related costs increased due to an increase in infrastructure and assets placed in service in 2006. Stock compensation expense increased $9.1 million as a result of the adoption of SFAS 123R. Other increases were primarily related to costs associated with the depreciation and maintenance of equipment and software. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries and other personnel related expenses for our executive, administrative, legal, finance, information technology and human resources personnel, and facility related expenses. A comparison of general and administrative expenses is presented below: 2007 %Change 2006 %Change 2005 (Dollars in thousands) General and administrative $ 276,130 8 % $ 256,592 43 % $ 179,294 2007 compared to 2006: General and administrative expenses increased approximately $19.5 million primarily due to a recognizing a full year of expenses for the acquisitions of inCode, GeoTrust and m Qube during the latter half of 2006, partially offset by a reduction of expenses due to the divestiture of our majority ownership interest in Jamba. Salary and benefit expenses increased $18.3 million primarily due to severance charges in connection with the separation agreements entered into with our former chief executive officer and former chief financial officer, merit pay increases, and additional expenses related to the acquisitions in late 2006. Stock based compensation expense increased approximately $7.6 million primarily due to an increase in the issuances of restricted stock to employees and a modification expense pertaining to our employee stock purchase plan that allowed employees to increase their contribution withholding percentages in 2007. Legal expense increased by $14.6 million primarily due to $24.8 million in litigation accruals, partially offset by a decrease in legal expenses, which were higher in 2006 due to increased activity associated with the stock option investigation. These increases were primarily offset by a decrease in expenses related primarily to redeployed employees of $26.9 million in general and administrative due to the realignment of business divisions as a result of the 2007 restructuring plan. 2006 compared to 2005: General and administrative expenses increased approximately $77.3 million primarily due to an increase of approximately $20.3 million in salary and employee benefit costs that was caused by a 39% increase in headcount and merit increases across all business units. Stock compensation expense increased $38.6 million as a result of the adoption of SFAS 123R. Expenses related to contract and professional services increased approximately $13.4 million primarily due to the legal and consulting services relating to the stock option investigation. 54 Table of Contents Restructuring, Impairments and Other Charges (Reversals), Net The following table presents a comparison of the restructuring, impairments and other charges (reversals), net: Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (In thousands) 2007 restructuring plan charges $ 29,615 $ $ 2002 and 2003 restructuring reversals, net (175 ) (6,420 ) (3,744 ) Total restructuring charges (reversals), net 29,440 (6,420 ) (3,744 ) Impairments and other charges 80,670 1,949 22,447 Total restructuring, impairments and other charges (reversals), net $ 110,110 $ (4,471 ) $ 18,703 The changes in restructuring, impairments and other charges (reversals), net, are primarily due to the timing of our restructuring initiatives. 2007 Restructuring Plan: In January 2007, we initiated a restructuring plan to execute a company wide reorganization replacing our previous business unit structure with a new combined worldwide sales and services team, and an integrated development and products organization. The restructuring plan included workforce reductions, abandonment of excess facilities and other charges. 2002 and 2003 Restructuring Plans: In November 2003, we initiated a restructuring plan related to the sale of our Network Solutions business and the realignment of other business units. In April 2002, we initiated a plan to restructure our operations to rationalize, integrate and align resources. All remaining charges relating to the 2002 and 2003 plans will be incurred by 2008. Impairments and other charges: During 2007, we recognized an impairment charge of $62.6 million for other intangible assets of the Content Services business reporting unit as a result of the impairment test conducted as required by SFAS 142 and SFAS 144 as of December 31, 2007. During 2007, we wrote off an additional $4.8 million of other intangible assets primarily related to a significant change in the operations of an asset group. During 2006, we wrote off approximately $2.0 million of other intangible assets specifically related to abandoned technology acquired for a specific customer. Other charges comprised of excess and obsolete property and equipment that were impaired, disposed of or abandoned. Other charges comprised of excess and obsolete property and equipment that were impaired, disposed of or abandoned. During 2007, we recognized an impairment charge of $4.3 million for property and equipment, net, of the Content Services business reporting unit as a result of the impairment test conducted as required by SFAS 144 as of December 31, 2007. During 2007, we recorded additional other charges of approximately $9.0 million, primarily for the abandonment of obsolete property and equipment and impairment specifically related to a significant change in the operations of an asset group. During 2005, we recorded an impairment of approximately $22.4 million relating to the abandonment of the development efforts related to an internally developed software project. See Note 1, Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, and Note 5, Restructuring, Impairments and Other Charges (Reversals), Net, of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Impairment of Goodwill At December 31, 2007, we recorded an impairment charge of $182.2 million relating to our Content Services business reporting unit, as a result of our decision to divest our non core businesses. See Note 7, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 55 Table of Contents Amortization of Other Intangible Assets The following table presents a comparison of our amortization of other intangible assets: Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (In thousands) Amortization of other intangible assets $ 116,064 $ 122,767 $ 101,638 2007 compared to 2006: Amortization of other intangible assets decreased approximately $6.7 million primarily due to the other intangible assets sold as part of the Jamba divestiture and other intangible assets becoming fully amortized. These decreases were offset by a full year of amortization related to other intangible assets acquired in 2006. 2006 compared to 2005: Amortization of other intangible assets increased approximately $21.1 million primarily due to a full year of amortization related to other intangible assets acquired in 2005 and new intangible assets acquired in 2006. Other intangible amortization expense as a result of business acquired in 2006 was approximately $29.1 million. Our anticipated 2008 amortization expense is expected to be approximately $37.3 million. This amount should decrease as we dispose of our existing business units with net other intangible assets. This amount may increase if we acquire any additional companies with other intangible assets. See Note 7, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Acquired In process Research and Development In 2007, we did not write off any in process research and development (IPR&D). During 2006, we wrote off approximately $16.7 million of IPR&D acquired in the CallVision, Kontiki, m Qube and GeoTrust transactions. During 2005, we wrote off $7.7 million of IPR&D acquired in the purchase of LightSurf Technologies, iDefense, Moreover and Retail Solutions International. At the date of each acquisition, the projects associated with the IPR&D efforts had not yet reached technological feasibility and the research and development in process had no alternative future uses. Accordingly, these amounts were charged to expense on the respective acquisition date of each of the acquired companies. Other Income, Net Other income, net, consists primarily of interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents, and investments, interest expense related to our borrowings, gains and losses on the sale or impairment of equity investments, gains and losses on divestiture of businesses, unrealized gains and losses on joint venture call options, realized and unrealized gains and losses on embedded derivative, and the net effect of foreign currency gains and losses. 56 Table of Contents The following table presents the components of other income, net: Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (In thousands) Interest income $ 47,348 $ 27,222 $ 29,924 Interest expense (18,266 ) (7,838 ) Net (loss) gain on sale of investments (1,787 ) 21,258 11,310 Net gain on divestiture of businesses 71,216 Unrealized gain on joint venture call options 10,925 Realized and unrealized loss on embedded derivative (15,301 ) Other, net (376 ) 2,001 10,740 Total other income, net $ 93,759 $ 42,643 $ 51,974 2007 compared to 2006: Other income, net, increased approximately $51.1 million in 2007. Interest income increased approximately $20.1 million primarily as a result of higher cash balances throughout the year. Interest expense increased approximately $10.4 million primarily due to interest expense related to our convertible debentures issued in August 2007. We recognized a gain of approximately $68.2 million upon the divestiture of our majority ownership interest in our Jamba business unit. We recorded $10.9 million of unrealized gain on the joint venture call options and $15.3 million of realized and unrealized losses on the embedded derivative associated with our convertible debentures. Due to the fact that we are required to mark to market the fair value of these call options and the embedded derivative at each reporting period, such revaluations could result in further gains or losses. Other activity during 2007 included a $1.8 million net loss on the sale of investments and a $3.0 million gain on the divestiture of a business unit. 2006 compared to 2005: Other income, net, decreased approximately $9.3 million primarily due to $7.8 million in interest expense related to our outstanding balance from our credit facility in 2006. We recorded a $21.7 million gain on sale of our remaining equity ownership interest in Network Solutions in 2006. Interest income decreased $2.7 million, primarily as a result of a decrease in our short term investment balances. Other, net decreased approximately $8.7 million primarily due to a $6.0 million gain recorded in 2005. Income Tax Expense In the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005, we recorded income tax expense from continuing operations of $11.1 million, or 8.7% of pretax loss, income tax benefit of $243.6 million, or 182.5% of pretax income, and income tax expense of $101.0 million, or 37.7% of pretax income, respectively. Our effective tax rate in 2007 differs from 2006 primarily because of the 2007 impairment to goodwill which is nondeductible for tax purposes, the 2006 reduction in our valuation allowance, and the implementation in 2006 of a global business structure. Our effective tax rate in 2007 also differs from 2006 because we were granted relief from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) in 2006 for an uncertainty regarding a tax benefit resulting from a prior divestiture. As a result, we benefited income tax expense of $113.4 million in 2006. Prior to 2006, we provided a tax valuation allowance on our United States (U.S.) federal and state deferred tax assets based on our evaluation that realizability of such assets was not more likely than not as required by generally accepted accounting principles. We continuously evaluated additional facts representing positive and negative evidence in the determination of the realizability of the deferred tax assets. Such deferred tax assets consisted primarily of net operating loss carryforwards, temporary differences on tax deductible goodwill and intangible assets, and temporary differences on deferred revenue. In 2006, based on additional evidence regarding our past earnings, scheduling of deferred tax liabilities and projected future taxable income from operating activities, we determined that it was more likely than not that the deferred tax assets would be 57 Table of Contents realized. Accordingly, we released our valuation allowance of $236.4 million from our deferred tax assets resulting in a benefit to deferred tax expense in its statement of operations. We continue to assess the future realization of net U.S. deferred tax assets and believe that it is more likely than not that forecasted income, tax effects of deferred tax liabilities and projected future taxable income from operating activities will be sufficient to support future realization of net U.S. deferred tax assets. We continue to apply a valuation allowance on certain deferred tax assets which we do not believe are more likely than not that they would be realized. We continue to apply a valuation allowance on the deferred tax assets relating to capital loss carryforwards and to book impairments of investments, due to the limited carryforward period and character of such tax attributes. The amount of deferred tax assets which continues to be subject to a valuation allowance was $53.3 million and $51.9 million as of December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006, respectively. As of December 31, 2007, we had U.S. federal and state net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $520.9 million and $136.3 million, respectively, including federal and state net operating loss carryforwards of $520.9 million and $130.4 million, respectively, related to the settlement of employee stock awards. When recognized pursuant to the implementation guidance in SFAS 123R, these net operating losses will result in a benefit to additional paid in capital. As of December 31, 2007, we had foreign net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $27.0 million. If we are not able to use them, the U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards will expire in 2020 through 2026 and the state net operating loss carryforwards will expire in 2008 through 2027. Most of our foreign net operating loss carryforwards do not expire, but could be subject to future restrictions based on changes in the business or ownership of the foreign subsidiary. As of December 31, 2007 we had U.S. federal and state research and experimentation tax credits available for future years of approximately $37.9 million and $22.1 million, respectively. Of the $37.9 million federal research credit carry forward, $7.9 million will be recognized as a benefit to paid in capital when utilized. The federal research and experimentation tax credits will expire, if not utilized, in 2011 through 2027. Most state research and experimentation tax credits carry forward indefinitely until utilized. The Tax Reform Act of 1986 imposes substantial restrictions on the utilization of net operating losses and tax credits in the event of a corporations ownership change, as defined in the Internal Revenue Code. We experienced cumulative changes in ownership of greater than 50 percent in 2003 and 2002. These changes in ownership resulted in the imposition of an annual limitation on our ability to utilize certain U.S. federal and state net operating loss carryforwards of $232.9 million and $116.5 million, respectively. Losses not utilized due to these limitations can be carried forward, but are subject to the expiration dates described above. Deferred income taxes have not been provided on the undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries. The amount of such earnings at December 31, 2007, was $259.5 million, principally from VeriSign Japan KK and VeriSign Switzerland SA. These earnings have been permanently reinvested and VeriSign does not plan to initiate any action that would precipitate the payment of income taxes thereon. It is not practicable to estimate the amount of additional tax that might be payable on the undistributed foreign earnings. We are currently under examination by the IRS and the California Franchise Tax Board for the years ended December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2005. We are also under examination by numerous state taxing jurisdictions. Because we use historic net operating loss carryforwards and other tax attributes to offset our taxable income in current and future years, such attributes can be adjusted by the IRS and other taxing authorities until the statute closes on the year in which such attribute was utilized. 58 Table of Contents Loss from Unconsolidated Entities, Net of Tax Loss from unconsolidated entities, net of tax, represents the net loss recognized from the joint ventures entered into with Fox, as described in Note 2, Joint Ventures, of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We recorded a loss, net of tax, of approximately $2.0 million in 2007. Minority Interest, Net of Tax Minority interest, net of tax represents the portion of net income belonging to minority shareholders of our consolidated subsidiaries. The following table presents a comparison of minority interest, net of tax: Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (In thousands) Minority interest, net of tax $ (3,840 ) $ (2,875 ) $ (4,702 ) 2007 compared to 2006: Minority interest, net of tax, increased primarily from an increase in net income from our VeriSign Japan subsidiary primarily due to an increase in security services revenues. 2006 compared to 2005: Minority interest, net of tax, decreased primarily from decreased net income from our VeriSign Japan subsidiary primarily due to a decrease in the installed base of SSL certificates and a decrease in demand for managed security services in Japan. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 31, 2007 2006 (In thousands) Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,376,722 $ 478,749 Short term investments 1,011 198,656 Subtotal 1,377,733 677,405 Restricted cash and investments 46,936 49,437 Total $ 1,424,669 $ 726,842 Working capital from continuing operations $ 803,431 $ (38,973 ) At December 31, 2007, our principal source of liquidity was $1.4 billion of cash and cash equivalents consisting principally of money market funds. In January 2007, we entered into two joint venture agreements with Fox to provide mobile entertainment to consumers on a global basis. Under the terms of the agreements, Fox owns a 51% interest and VeriSign owns a 49% interest in the joint ventures. Fox paid VeriSign approximately $192.4 million in cash for the divestiture of 51% of our ownership interest in Jamba and we paid Fox approximately $4.9 million in cash for its contribution of Fox Mobile Entertainment assets. In August 2007, we issued $1.25 billion principal amount of 3.25% convertible debentures due 2037, to an initial purchaser in a private offering. We received net proceeds of $1.22 billion after deduction of issuance costs of $25.8 million. Concurrently with the issuance of the convertible debentures, the Board of Directors of VeriSign authorized the use of the net proceeds from the issuance of the convertible debentures to repurchase shares of our common stock in addition to the previously approved 2006 stock repurchase program. 59 Table of Contents During the second half of 2007, we divested certain businesses for $19.2 million in cash and $3.8 million in preferred stock of one of the acquiring companies, and recorded a net gain of $4.4 million. During the second half of 2007, we used the proceeds from the issuance of the convertible debentures to repurchase 12.2 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate cost of approximately $350 million. Additionally, we entered into a $200 million Guaranteed Share Repurchase (GSR) agreement and a $600 million ASR agreement with two independent financial institutions. Under the terms of the GSR agreement, we received approximately 6.3 million shares of our common stock. Under the terms of the ASR agreement, we received approximately 19.5 million shares. In January and February of 2008, we repurchased 13.3 million shares of our common stock under the 2006 stock repurchase program for an aggregate cost of $451.4 million. As of February 28, we have approximately $532.7 million available under the 2006 stock repurchase program. On January 31, 2008, our Board of Directors authorized the 2008 stock repurchase program having an aggregate purchase price of up to $600 million of our common stock. On February 8, 2008, we announced that we entered into an ASR agreement to repurchase $600 million of our common stock under the 2008 stock repurchase program and announced an intent to repurchase up to an additional $200 million in open market transactions under the 2006 stock repurchase program. We paid $600 million to a financial institution in exchange for a number of shares, which will be determined, subject to a cap, based on market prices during the term of the ASR agreement. Through February 28, 2008 we received 15.1 million shares under the ASR agreement. We expect to complete the repurchases by the end of the third quarter of 2008, although in certain circumstances the completion date may be shortened or extended. As a result of the Companys decision to divest its non core businesses, we expect cash flows from investing activities to increase in 2008, as and when proceeds are received from the sale of those businesses. We continue to expect positive cash flows from operating activities as our core businesses generate the majority of our cash flows from operations. In summary, our cash flows were as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (In thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 470,460 $ 474,779 $ 481,122 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 212,085 (562,396 ) 143,596 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 188,671 110,735 (469,513 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 3,721 6 (7,186 ) Net increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 874,937 $ 23,124 $ 148,019 Net cash provided by operating activities Our largest source of operating cash flows is cash collections from our customers. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities are for personnel related expenditures, and other general operating expenses, as well as payments related to taxes and facilities. 2007 compared to 2006: Net cash provided by operating activities decreased primarily due to $139.5 million in net loss adjusted for non cash items and changes in operating assets and liabilities. The non cash items contributing to the increase primarily included an increase in restructuring, impairments and other charges (reversals), net, primarily associated with our 2007 restructuring plan, an increase in stock based compensation expense primarily due to acceleration of stock options and awards related to the separation of our former Chief Executive Officer, a charge for impairment of goodwill, realized and unrealized losses on our embedded 60 Table of Contents derivative associated with our issuance of convertible debentures and a change in deferred income taxes primarily due to a release of the valuation allowance on deferred tax assets in 2006. The non cash items partially offsetting the increase included gain from our divestiture of our majority ownership interest in Jamba, gains from the divestitures of certain other business units and an unrealized gain on joint venture call options. The changes in operating assets and liabilities were primarily due to timing of receipts, purchases and payments. 2006 compared to 2005: Net cash provided by operating activities decreased primarily due to a decrease in net income adjusted for non cash items and changes in operating assets and liabilities. The non cash items contributing to the decrease included a change in deferred income taxes primarily due to a release of the valuation allowance on deferred tax assets, partially offset by an increase in stock based compensation expense as a result of the adoption of SFAS 123R. The changes in operating assets and liabilities were primarily due to timing of receipts, purchases and payments. Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities The changes in cash flows from investing activities primarily relate to business combinations, divestiture of businesses, timing of purchases, maturities and sales of investments, purchases of property and equipment, investments in unconsolidated entities and long term note receivable. 2007 compared to 2006: Net cash provided by investing activities increased primarily due to proceeds received on divestiture of our majority ownership interest in Jamba and certain other businesses, partially offset by a decrease in cash spent on business combinations and for purchases of investments and a decrease in cash received from maturities and sales of investments. 2006 compared to 2005: Net cash used in investing activities increased primarily due to an increase in cash spent on business combinations and for purchases of investments, partially offset by an increase in cash received from maturities and sales of investments. Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities The changes in cash flows from financing activities primarily relate to borrowings and payments under debt obligations, as well as stock repurchase and stock option exercise activities. 2007 compared to 2006: Net cash provided by financing activities increased primarily due to proceeds received from issuance of convertible debentures and an increase in proceeds received from the issuance of common stock from stock option exercises and employee stock purchase plan purchases, partially offset by an increase in cash spent for stock repurchase activities and repayment of short term debt under the Credit Facility. 2006 compared to 2005: Net cash provided by financing activities increased primarily due to proceeds received from draw down of the Credit Facility, partially offset by a decrease in cash spent for stock repurchase activities and for repayment of short term debt under the Credit Facility. As of December 31, 2007, restricted cash and investments primarily include $45.0 million related to a trust established during 2004 for our director and officer liability self insurance coverage. As of December 31, 2007, we have pledged approximately $2.5 million as collateral for standby letters of credit that guarantee certain of our contractual obligations, primarily relating to our real estate lease agreements, the longest of which is expected to mature in 2014. Of the $2.5 million pledged as of December 31, 2007, approximately $2.0 million is classified as short term restricted cash and is included in cash and cash equivalents. In January 2008, the collateral associated with stand by letters of credit was released. In 2006, we entered into a credit agreement with a syndicate of banks and other financial institutions related to a $500.0 million senior unsecured revolving credit facility (the Facility), under which VeriSign, or certain 61 Table of Contents designated subsidiaries may be borrowers. As of December 31, 2007, there were no outstanding borrowings under the Facility. Any future borrowings under the Facility will be used for working capital, capital expenditures, permitted acquisitions and repurchases of our common stock and other lawful corporate purposes. We believe existing cash and cash equivalents, together with funds generated from operations should be sufficient to meet our working capital, capital expenditure requirements and to service our debt for the next 12 months. Our philosophy regarding the maintenance of a balance sheet with a large component of cash, cash equivalents and short term investments reflects our views on potential future capital requirements relating to expansion of our businesses, acquisitions, and share repurchases. We regularly assess our cash management approach and activities in view of our current and potential future needs. Property and Equipment Expenditures The following table shows our planned property and equipment expenditures for 2008 and our actual expenditures in 2007, 2006 and 2005: 2008Planned 2007Actual 2006Actual 2005Actual (In thousands) Property and equipment expenditures $ 160,000 $ 168,400 $ 141,700 $ 140,499 Our planned property and equipment expenditures for 2008 are anticipated to be approximately $160.0 million and will primarily be focused on productivity, cost improvement and market development initiatives for the Internet Services Group. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our significant non cancelable contractual obligations at December 31, 2007, and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods: Payments due by period Total 2008 20092010 20112012 Thereafter (In thousands) Contractual obligations Operating lease obligations $ 115,734 $ 26,135 $ 40,972 $ 24,343 $ 24,284 Purchase obligations 52,132 39,577 12,002 553 ICANN agreement 57,000 10,000 24,000 23,000 Junior subordinated convertible debentures principal and interest 2,468,186 40,061 81,250 81,250 2,265,625 Total $ 2,693,052 $ 115,773 $ 158,224 $ 129,146 $ 2,289,909 As of December 31, 2007, we had commitments under non cancelable operating leases for our facilities for various terms through 2017. See Note 15, Commitments and Contingencies, of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We enter into certain purchase obligations with various vendors. Our significant purchase obligations primarily consist of firm commitments with telecommunication carriers and other service providers. We do not have any significant purchase obligations beyond 2010. In 2006, we entered into a contractual agreement with ICANN to be the sole registry operator for domain names in the .com top level domain through November 30, 2012. Under the new agreement, we paid ICANN fixed registry level fees of $10.0 million during 2007. Beginning in 2009, the agreement provides for contingent payments upon meeting certain criteria based on growth in annual domain name registrations that could amount to an additional $20.5 million through the end of the contract. 62 Table of Contents In August 2007, we issued $1.25 billion principal amount of 3.25% debentures due 2037. We will pay cash interest at an annual rate of 3.25% payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 of each year until maturity. See Note 10, Junior Subordinated Debentures, of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No 160 (SFAS 160), Non controlling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements, an amendment of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51, which requires all entities to report minority interests in subsidiaries as equity in the consolidated financial statements, and requires that transactions between entities and non controlling interests be treated as equity. SFAS 160 is effective for fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2008, and will be applied prospectively. We are currently evaluating the effect of SFAS 160, and the impact it will have on our financial position and results of operations. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141(R) (SFAS 141R), Business Combinations, which will significantly change how business acquisitions are accounted for and will impact financial statements both on the acquisition date and in subsequent periods. Some of the changes, such as the accounting for contingent consideration, will introduce more volatility into earnings, and may impact a companys acquisition strategy. SFAS 141R is effective for fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2008, and will be applied prospectively. We are currently evaluating the effect of SFAS 141R, and the impact it will have on our financial position and results of operations. In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159 (SFAS 159), The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets or Financial Liabilities, which provides companies with an option to report selected financial assets and liabilities at fair value. The objective is to reduce both complexity in accounting for financial instruments and the volatility in earnings caused by measuring related assets and liabilities differently. SFAS 159 also establishes presentation and disclosure requirements designed to facilitate comparisons between companies that choose different measurement attributes for similar types of assets and liabilities. SFAS 159 is effective as of the beginning of an entitys first fiscal year beginning after November 15, 2007. Early adoption is permitted as of the beginning of the previous fiscal year provided that the entity makes that choice in the first 120 days of that fiscal year and also elects to apply the provisions of SFAS No. 157 (SFAS 157), Fair Value Measurements. We do not expect the adoption of SFAS 159 to have a material impact on our financial position and results of operations. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS 157, which defines fair value, establishes guidelines for measuring fair value and expands disclosures regarding fair value measurements. SFAS 157 does not require any new fair value measurements but rather eliminates inconsistencies in guidance found in various prior accounting pronouncements. SFAS 157 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. On February 12, 2008, the FASB issued FSP SFAS 157 2, Effective Date of FASB Statement No 157, which defers the effective date for adoption of fair value measurements for nonfinancial assets and liabilities to fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008. We do not expect the adoption of SFAS 157 to have a material impact on our financial position and results of operations. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Interest rate sensitivity The primary objective of our short term investment management activities is to preserve principal with the additional goals of maintaining appropriate liquidity and driving after tax returns. We manage our interest rate risk by maintaining an investment portfolio generally consisting of debt instruments of high credit quality and relatively short maturities. We invest in a variety of securities, including commercial paper, medium term notes, corporate bonds and notes, U.S. government and agency securities and money market funds. In general, money market funds are not considered to be subject to interest rate risk because the interest paid on such funds fluctuates with the prevailing interest rate. As of December 31, 2007, our cash and cash equivalents consisted primarily of money market funds and we did not have any fixed income marketable securities. 63 Table of Contents Notwithstanding our efforts to manage interest rate risks, there can be no assurance that we will be adequately protected against risks associated with interest rate fluctuations. At any time, a sharp change in interest rates could have a significant impact on the fair value of our investment portfolio. Foreign exchange risk management We conduct business throughout the world and transact in multiple foreign currencies. As we continue to expand our international operations we are increasingly exposed to currency exchange rate risks. In the fourth quarter of 2003, we initiated a foreign currency risk management program designed to mitigate foreign exchange risks associated with the monetary assets and liabilities of our operations that are denominated in non functional currencies. The primary objective of this program is to minimize the gains and losses resulting from fluctuations in exchange rates. We do not enter into foreign currency transactions for trading or speculative purposes, nor do we hedge foreign currency exposures in a manner that entirely offsets the effects of changes in exchange rates. The program may entail the use of forward or option contracts and in each case these contracts are limited to a duration of less than 12 months. At December 31, 2007, we held forward contracts in notional amounts totaling approximately $50.9 million to mitigate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations associated with certain foreign currencies. All forward contracts are recorded at fair market value. We attempt to limit our exposure to credit risk by executing foreign exchange contracts with high quality financial institutions. Market risk management The fair market value of the junior subordinated convertible debentures (the Debentures) issued by the Company and due August 2037, is subject to interest rate risk and market risk due to the convertible feature of the Debentures. Generally, the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. The fair market value of the Debentures will also increase as the market price of our stock increases and decrease as the market price falls. The interest and market value changes affect the fair market value of the Debentures but do not impact our financial position, cash flows or results of operations. As of December 31, 2007, the fair value of the Debentures was approximately $1.6 billion, based on quoted market prices. 64 Table of Contents 
 
