ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS Except for historical information, this Report contains forward looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act of 1934. These forward looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, including, among other things, statements regarding our anticipated costs and expenses and revenues mix. Forward looking statements include, among others, those statements including the words expects, anticipates, intends, believes and similar language. Our actual results may differ significantly from those projected in the forward looking statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Item 1A Risk Factors. You should carefully review the risks described in other documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Quarterly Reports on Form 10 Q or Current Reports on Form 8 K that we filed in 2008. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Form 10 K. We undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to the forward looking statements or reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document. Business Overview Overview We are the trusted provider of Internet infrastructure services for the networked world. We offer a comprehensive spectrum of products and services that help a growing number of organizations and individuals to communicate and conduct commerce with confidence. As of December 31, 2008, our business consisted of two reportable segments: (1) Internet Infrastructure and Identity Services (3IS), which consists of Naming Services, Secure Socket Layer (SSL) Certificate Services, Identity and Authentication Services (IAS), and VeriSign Japan, and (2) Other Services, which represents continuing operations of non core businesses and legacy products and services from divested businesses. Prior to 2008, our business consisted of the following two reportable segments: Internet Services Group (ISG) and the Communication Services Group (CSG). As a result of a comprehensive review of our business strategy, we changed our reportable segments in 2008. Comparative segment revenues and related financial information for 2008, 2007, and 2006 are presented in Note 16, Segment Information, Description of Segments, of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Form 10 K. We have reclassified prior period amounts to conform to current period presentation. We have operations inside as well as outside the U.S. For a geographic breakdown of revenues and changes in revenues, see Note 16, Segment Information, Geographic Revenues, of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Form 10 K. The Naming Services business is the authoritative directory provider of all .com, .net, .cc, .tv, .name and .jobs domain names. The SSL Certificate Services business enables enterprises and Internet merchants to implement and operate secure networks and websites that utilize SSL protocol. These services provide customers the means to authenticate themselves to their end users and website visitors and to encrypt communications between client browsers and Web servers. The IAS business includes identity protection services, fraud detection services, managed public key infrastructure (PKI) services, and unified authentication services. These services are intended to help enterprises secure intranets, extranets and other applications and devices, and provide authentication credentials. VeriSign Japan is a majority owned subsidiary and its operations primarily consist of SSL Certificate Services and IAS. The Other Services segment consists of the continuing operations of our non core Pre pay billing and payment services (Pre pay) business as well as legacy products and services from divested businesses. We are in the process of winding down the operations of the Pre pay business. In Other Services, the legacy products and services from divested businesses primarily include the following: Jamba, 47 Table of Contents which provided mobile entertainment to consumers; the RDS business, which offered point of sale data information for retail, pharmaceutical and consumer goods customers; and the CDN business, which offered broadband content services that enable the delivery of high quality video and other rich media securely and efficiently at a very large scale. During the fourth quarter of 2007, we announced a change to our business strategy to allow management to focus its attention on our core competencies and to make additional resources available to invest in our core businesses. The strategy calls for a divestiture or winding down of all the business lines in our former CSG segment and all business lines in our former ISG segment except for our core businesses. The business lines that we expect to divest, including those that have been sold since the fourth quarter of 2007, accounted for approximately 50% of our overall revenues in fiscal 2007. These businesses are classified as disposal groups held for sale as of December 31, 2008, and their results of operations have been classified as discontinued operations for all periods presented. The continued execution of our divestiture plan is subject to the availability of financing, identification of buyers, and general market conditions, including further developments in the current global economic condition and potential continued deterioration of the credit markets. While we are executing our divestiture plan, we will experience additional risks, including, but not limited to the disruption of our business and the potential loss of key employees; difficulties separating operations, services, products and personnel; the potential damage to relationships with our existing customers; and the delay in completion of transition services. For example, our divestiture plan requires a substantial amount of management, administrative and operational resources. Once our divestiture plan is completed, the scale and scope of our operations will decrease in absolute terms, which we expect will allow our remaining core businesses to benefit from a more efficient and streamlined operational structure. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve the full strategic and financial benefits we expect from the divestiture of our non core businesses and there is no guarantee that the planned divestitures will occur or will not be significantly delayed, all of which may result in future variability in our results of operations. By divesting our non core businesses, additional resources should be available to invest in our core services that will remain: Naming Services, SSL Certificate Services and IAS. In the first quarter of 2009, we announced a realignment of our three core services into two business units to include the following: (1) Naming Services and (2) Authentication Services, which would include both SSL Certificate Services and IAS. Our Core Services Our core services consist of our Naming Services, SSL Certificate Services and IAS. Naming Services As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately 90.4 million domain names registered under the .com and .net registries, which are our principal registries. The number of domain names registered is largely driven by Internet usage and broadband penetration rates. Although growth in absolute number of registrations remains greatest in mature markets such as the U.S. and Western Europe, growth on an annual percentage basis is expected to be greatest in markets outside of the U.S. and Europe where Internet penetration has demonstrated the greatest potential for growth. We are largely insulated from the risk posed by fluctuations in exchange rates due to the fact that all revenues paid to us for .com and .net registrations are in U.S. dollars. SSL Certificate Services As of December 31, 2008, we had an installed base of SSL certificates of approximately 1.1 million. We currently offer the following SSL Certificate Services: VeriSign&reg;, GeoTrust&reg;, and thawte&reg; branded certificates. The major factors impacting the growth and performance of our SSL Certificate Services business are the penetration and adoption of the Internet, especially through broadband services, the spread of e commerce, the utilization of electronic means for executing financial transactions (such as credit card payments), and the extent to which advertising through search engines encourages consumers to engage in e commerce. As a result of the 48 Table of Contents growing impact of the Internet on global commercial transactions, we expect continued revenue growth in our business, primarily in markets outside of the U.S. where e commerce has the largest growth potential. IAS As with our SSL Certificate Services, the major factors impacting the growth and performance of our IAS are the penetration and adoption of the Internet, especially through broadband services, the spread of e commerce, the utilization of electronic means for executing financial transactions (such as credit card payments), and the extent to which advertising through search engines encourages consumers to engage in e commerce. 2008 Business Highlights Our 3IS segment recorded revenues of $936.3 million in 2008, an increase of 20% from last year. We recorded income from continuing operations of $92.6 million in 2008, compared to a net loss from continuing operations of $147.7 million in 2007. We sold certain non core businesses for aggregate net cash consideration of $102.4 million, and recorded an aggregate net loss on sale of $13.7 million, net of an aggregate income tax benefit of $5.2 million, including estimated losses recorded prior to sale. See Assets held for sale and Discontinued Operations in Item 7 of this Form 10 K for further information. We sold our remaining 49% ownership interest in the Jamba joint ventures to Fox for $199.4 million and recorded a gain of $66.9 million, net of an income tax expense of $11.0 million. We acquired Global Name Registry, Ltd. (GNR), the registry operator for the .name gTLD, for net cash consideration of $11.7 million. We recorded an other than temporary impairment charge of $8.2 million relating to our investments in certain money market funds managed by The Reserves Primary Fund (the Primary Fund) and The Reserve International Liquidity Fund, Ltd. (the International Fund). For further information, see Note 8, Other Balance Sheet Items, Prepaid Expenses and Other Current Assets, of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Form 10 K for further information. We terminated the $45.0 million trust established during 2004 for our director and officer liability self insurance coverage and classified the amount as Cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2008, as our ability to use it is no longer restricted. We repurchased 38.6 million shares of our common stock at an average stock price of $34.07 per share for an aggregate cost of approximately $1.3 billion under the 2008 and 2006 Stock Repurchase Programs. As of December 31, 2008, we have $950.0 million remaining for further repurchases under the 2008 and 2006 Stock Repurchase Programs. We sold certain land and buildings located in Mountain View, California, for net cash consideration of $47.6 million. At the time of closing, we entered into a separate lease agreement with the purchaser of the property for an initial term expiring on December 31, 2010, with an option to extend the lease for five years from the date of expiration of the initial term. We recorded a loss of $79.1 million upon sale of the property. Our 2008 restructuring plan was announced in late 2007 to complement our plan to divest our non core businesses. We recorded $69.6 million in restructuring charges related to the 2008 restructuring plan, inclusive of amounts for discontinued operations. Of the total restructuring charges, expenses related to severance and benefit costs for terminated employees, inclusive of amounts for discontinued operations, totaled $63.8 million. Since announcing the 2008 restructuring plan, we have reduced our headcount in businesses targeted for divestiture, either through the sale of businesses, employee terminations or voluntary resignations. 49 Table of Contents Acquisitions On October 1, 2008, we completed our acquisition of GNR, a United Kingdom based company that manages and operates the registry for the .name top level domain. We paid $11.7 million in cash (net of cash acquired of $1.1 million) for the acquisition, which included $0.6 million to cover certain transaction costs. We recorded goodwill of $1.2 million, other indefinite lived intangible asset of $11.7 million, and assumed net liabilities of $1.2 million. GNR is included in our 3IS segment. We had a pre existing relationship with GNR, pursuant to a registry services agreement, whereby we provided certain registry services to GNR. The effective settlement of the pre existing relationship, as a result of the acquisition, did not result in a gain or loss. In 2007, we did not acquire any businesses. In 2006, we acquired the following companies for an aggregate purchase price of $633.3 million: inCode Telecom Group, Inc., a privately held consulting firm for the wireless industry; GeoTrust, Inc., a privately held provider of digital certificates and identity verification solutions; m Qube, Inc., a privately held mobile channel enabler that helps companies develop, deliver and bill for mobile content, applications and messaging services; Kontiki, Inc., a provider of broadband content services; 3united Mobile Solutions ag, a provider of wireless application services; CallVision, Inc., a privately held provider of online analysis applications for mobile communications customers; and two other acquisitions that were not material on an individual basis or in the aggregate. We account for all of our significant acquisitions as business combinations using the purchase method of accounting Accordingly, the acquired companies revenues, costs and expenses have been included in our results of operations beginning with their dates of acquisition. See Note 3, Business Combinations, of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Form 10 K for further information regarding our business acquisitions over the last three years. Jamba Joint Ventures On October 6, 2008, we sold our remaining 49% ownership interest in the Jamba joint ventures to Fox for cash consideration of $199.4 million and recorded a gain on sale of $66.9 million, net of an income tax expense of $11.0 million, upon divestiture. Pursuant to the sale agreement, certain outstanding debts and accrued but unpaid interest owed among us and the Jamba joint ventures have been repaid, and the parties agreed to the settlement and discharge of all other amounts owed among them as of the date of the agreement. See Note 2, Joint Ventures, of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Form 10 K for further information regarding the Jamba joint ventures. Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations Completed Divestitures On December 31, 2008, we sold our EMEA Mobile Media (EMM) business which offered mobile application services that included interactive messaging applications, content portal services, and messaging gateway services for cash consideration of $7.8 million, of which $3.6 million is due in 2009, and $2.8 million related to an estimated working capital adjustment is due in 2009. We recorded a loss on sale of $13.3 million, net of an income tax benefit of $0.1 million, including estimated losses on disposal recorded prior to the sale. Our 3united Mobile Solutions business, which we acquired in 2006, was divested as part of the EMM business. The historical results of operations of the EMM business have been classified as discontinued operations for all periods presented. 50 Table of Contents On December 31, 2008, we sold our Post pay business which enabled advanced billing and customer care services to wireless telecommunications carriers for cash consideration of $28.3 million. The cash consideration includes $2.5 million that was placed in an escrow account to cover any contingent claims made by the buyer against us through December 31, 2009. If no claims are made, the amount in escrow will be released to us during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. We recorded a loss on sale of $1.9 million, net of an income tax benefit of $0.3 million, including estimated losses on disposal recorded prior to the sale. The historical results of operations of the Post pay business have been classified as discontinued operations for all periods presented. On October 31, 2008, we sold our Communications Consulting business, which offered a full range of strategy and technology consulting, business planning, sourcing, and implementation services to help telecommunications operators and equipment manufacturers drive profitable new business and technology strategies, in a management buyout transaction for cash consideration of $0.7 million. We recorded a loss on the sale of $20.9 million, net of an income tax benefit of $17.0 million, including estimated losses on disposal recorded prior to the sale. Our inCode Telecom Group business, which we acquired in 2006, was divested as part of the Communications Consulting business. The historical results of operations of the Communications Consulting business have been classified as discontinued operations for all periods presented. On April 30, 2008, we sold our DBMS business, which offered a range of corporate domain name and brand protection services that help enterprises, legal professionals, information technology professionals and brand marketers monitor, protect and build digital brand equity. We received cash consideration of $50.4 million and recorded a gain on sale of $21.2 million, net of an income tax expense of $11.4 million. The cash consideration includes $5.0 million that was placed in an escrow account to cover any contingent claims made by the buyer against us through April 30, 2009. If no claims are made, the amount in escrow will be released to us during the second quarter of fiscal 2009. The historical results of operations of the DBMS business have been classified as discontinued operations for all periods presented. On April 30, 2008, we sold our CDN business, which offered broadband content services that enable the delivery of high quality video and other rich media securely and efficiently at a very large scale. We received cash consideration of $1.0 million and recorded a gain on sale of $1.7 million, net of an income tax expense of $1.1 million. Our Kontiki business, which we acquired in 2006, was divested as part of the CDN business. We retained an equity ownership in the CDN business and have accounted for our investment in the CDN business on an equity method basis. As a result of our continuing involvement in the CDN business, the historical results of operations of the CDN business have not been classified as discontinued operations. The historical results of operations of CDN are included in our Other Services segment. On March 31, 2008, we sold our SC&A business, which provided on line analysis applications for mobile communications customers and on line customer self service with a single view of billing across multiple systems. We received cash consideration of $14.2 million and recorded a loss on sale of $0.5 million, net of an income tax benefit of $0.3 million. Our CallVision business, which we acquired in 2006, was sold as part of the SC&A business. The historical results of operations of the SC&A business have been classified as discontinued operations for all periods presented. On December 31, 2007, we sold our Retail Data Solutions (RDS) business, which offered point of sale data information for retail, pharmaceutical and consumer goods customers, for $10.2 million in consideration. The sale price included $6.4 million in cash and $3.8 million in preferred stock of the acquiring company. We recorded the preferred stock as a long term investment. We recorded a gain on sale of $4.5 million, net of income tax benefit of $1.5 million. As the historical results of operations of the RDS business were not significant, they have not been classified as discontinued operations. The historical results of operations of RDS are included in our Other Services segment. On September 1, 2007, we sold our wholly owned Jamba Service GmbH subsidiary (Jamba Service), which marketed insurance and extended service warranties to consumers for mobile electronic equipment and 51 Table of Contents products. We received net cash consideration of $12.8 million and recorded a gain on sale of $1.8 million. The historical results of operations of Jamba Service have been classified as discontinued operations for all periods presented. Assets Held for Sale As of December 31, 2008, businesses classified as held for sale and presented as discontinued operations are the following: Communications Services Our Communications Services business provides communications services, such as Billing and Commerce Services, Connectivity and Interoperability Services and Intelligent Database Services. The Billing and Commerce Services primarily include our Billing Services, Global Consulting Services for Billing, Real Time Rating and Payment Services, Real Time Roaming Services, and Settlement and Exchange Services. The Connectivity and Interoperability Services primarily include our Signaling System 7 (SS7) Connectivity, Voice and Data Roaming services, and Voice Over Internet Protocol Services. The Intelligent Database Services primarily include our Number Portability Services, Calling Name Database Services, Line Information Database Services and Toll free Database Services. On March 2, 2009, we entered into a binding agreement to sell our Communications Services business to Transaction Network Services, Inc. for $230.0 million subject to certain adjustments to reflect normal fluctuations in working capital. The transaction is subject to Hart Scott Rodino Act review, and the agreement contains customary closing conditions. The parties anticipate that the transaction will close within 60 days. Content Portal Services Our CPS business enables a seamless end to end solutions business focused on providing best in class digital content storefront services. CPS can be used as a content delivery platform for games, ringtones, and other content services. Our CPS business provides services to mobile carriers and media companies primarily located in Canada. Enterprise Security Services Our Enterprise Security Services business includes Managed Security Services (MSS), iDefense Security Intelligence Services, and the Global Consulting Services. MSS enables enterprises to effectively monitor and manage their network security infrastructure 24 hours per day, every day of the year while reducing the associated time, expense, and personnel commitments by relying on our security platform and experienced security staff. Our iDefense Security Intelligence Services deliver comprehensive, actionable intelligence to help companies decide how to respond to threats and manage security risks on networks. Our Global Consulting Services help companies understand corporate security requirements, comply with all applicable regulations, identify security vulnerabilities, reduce risk, and meet the security compliance requirements applicable to the particular business and industry. International Clearing Our International Clearing business enables financial settlement and call data settlement for wireless and wireline carriers. Messaging and Mobile Media Our Messaging and Mobile Media (MMM) Services business is an industry leading global provider of short messaging, multimedia messaging, and mobile content application services. MMM Services enable 52 Table of Contents messages and multimedia content to be sent globally across any wireless operator and mobile device. MMM Services offer the global connectivity, network reliability, and scalability necessary to capitalize on the fast growing global messaging and media content markets. Real time Publisher Services Our RTP Services allow organizations to obtain access to and organize large amounts of constantly updated content, and distribute it, in real time, to enterprises, Web portal developers, application developers and consumers. RTP also makes it easier for publishers of all sizes to distribute and track their content feeds, which may improve the reliability and quality of their real time content. See Note 4, Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Form 10 K for further information regarding our disposal groups. Subsequent Events On January 23, 2009, we entered into an arrangement agreement with Certicom Corp. (Certicom), a corporation continued under the laws of Canada, whereby we agreed to acquire all of the outstanding common shares of Certicom, for an aggregate purchase price, of approximately $73 million. On February 10, 2009, Certicom terminated the arrangement agreement in order to accept a superior acquisition proposal from a third party, as determined by Certicoms Board of Directors. Certicom has paid a termination fee of $3.3 million to us, pursuant to the terms of the arrangement agreement. On January 30, 2009, we received $85.8 million from the International Fund and on February 20, 2009, we received $8.3 million from the Primary Fund. The total distributions to date represents approximately 85% and 65% of our total investment in the Primary Fund and the International Fund, respectively. As of March 2, 2009, the funds held by the Primary Fund and the International Fund were $16.2 million and $40.1 million, respectively, net of the other than temporary impairment. For more information regarding the status of our investments with The Reserve, see Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Discussions About Market Risk. In January 2009, we announced a realignment of our three core services into two business units to include the following: (1) Naming Services and (2) Authentication Services, which would include both SSL Certificate Services and IAS. On March 2, 2009, we entered into a binding agreement to sell our Communications Services business to Transaction Network Services, Inc. for $230.0 million subject to certain adjustments to reflect normal fluctuations in working capital. The transaction is subject to Hart Scott Rodino Act review, and the agreement contains customary closing conditions. The parties anticipate that the transaction will close within 60 days. Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Management Estimates The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates those estimates. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and on various assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily available from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe the following critical accounting policies have the most significant impact on our judgment and estimates used in preparing our consolidated financial statements: 53 Table of Contents Revenue recognition We recognize revenues in accordance with current generally accepted accounting principles. Revenue recognition requirements are complex rules which require us to make judgments and estimates related to both the timing and amount of revenue recognition. Our assumptions and judgments regarding products and services could differ from actual events. As our Naming Services, SSL Certificate Services and IAS are provided over time, the associated revenues from these services are generally recognized over the contractual term. However, certain revenues are recognized over an estimated relationship period determined based on an analysis of historical performance and customer usage. While the majority of our revenue transactions contain standard business terms and conditions, there are certain transactions that contain non standard business terms and conditions. In addition, we may enter into certain revenue transactions that involve multiple element arrangements (arrangements with more than one deliverable). As a result, significant contract interpretation is sometimes required to determine the appropriate accounting for these transactions including: (1) whether an arrangement exists; (2) how the arrangement consideration should be allocated among potential multiple elements; (3) when to recognize revenues on the deliverables; and (4) whether all elements of the arrangement have been delivered. In addition, our revenue recognition policy requires an assessment as to whether collection is reasonably assured, which inherently requires us to evaluate the creditworthiness of our customers. Changes in judgments on these assumptions and estimates could materially impact the timing or amount of revenue recognition. Valuation of goodwill and other long lived assets Goodwill represents the excess of costs over fair value of net assets of businesses acquired. Fair value determination of acquired net assets, especially intangible assets, requires us to make significant estimates, assumptions and judgment. These estimates are based upon a number of factors, including historical experience, market conditions and information obtained from the management of the acquired company. Critical estimates in valuing certain of the intangible assets include, but are not limited to, historical and projected customer retention rates, anticipated growth in revenue from the acquired customer and product base and the expected use of the acquired assets. These factors are also considered in determining the useful life of the acquired intangible assets. Goodwill and other intangible assets acquired in a business combination that are determined to have an indefinite useful life are not amortized, but instead tested for impairment at least annually or between annual tests in the presence of impairment indicators such as: (a) a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate; (b) an adverse action or assessment by a regulator; (c) unanticipated competition; (d) loss of key personnel; (e) a more likely than not expectation of sale or disposal of a reporting unit or a significant portion thereof; (f) testing for recoverability of a significant asset group within a reporting unit; or (g) recognition of a goodwill impairment loss in the financial statements of a subsidiary that is a component of a reporting unit. Judgment is required in determining the existence of these factors and its effect on any impairment determination. The fair value of our reporting units is determined considering the income, the market or the transaction valuation approaches or a combination thereof. Under the income approach, the fair value of the reporting unit is based on the present value of estimated future cash flows that the reporting unit is expected to generate over its remaining life. Under the market approach, the value of the reporting unit is based on an analysis that compares the value of the reporting unit to values of publicly traded companies in similar lines of business. The transaction approach is a valuation technique that estimates the fair value of the reporting unit based on market prices on actual transactions and asking prices for businesses currently available for sale. The process of evaluating the potential impairment of goodwill is highly subjective and requires significant judgment at many points during the analysis. In estimating the fair value of our reporting units for the purposes 54 Table of Contents of our annual or interim analyses, we make estimates and judgments about the future cash flows, operating trends, discount rates, control premiums, and other variables of these businesses. Although our cash flow forecasts are based on assumptions that are consistent with the plans and estimates we use to manage the underlying businesses, there is significant judgment in determining the cash flows attributable to these businesses over their estimated remaining useful lives. We also consider our market capitalization on the date we perform the analysis. Our other long lived assets consist primarily of property and equipment and purchased intangible assets. We review other long lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that we will not be able to recover the assets carrying amount. Such events or circumstances include, but are not limited to, a significant decrease in the fair value of the underlying business or asset, a significant decrease in the benefits realized from the acquired business, difficulty and delays in integrating the business or a significant change in the operations of the acquired business or use of an asset. Recoverability of other long lived assets is measured by comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to estimated undiscounted cash flows of the group containing the asset. If the carrying amount of an asset group exceeds its estimated future cash flows, an impairment charge is recognized by the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair value. Valuation of assets held for sale Disposal groups classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of their carrying amount or fair value less cost to sell and are not depreciated or amortized. Classification of our disposal groups as held for sale occurs when sufficient authority to sell the disposal group has been obtained, the disposal group is available for immediate sale, an active program to sell the disposal group has been initiated and its sale is probable within one year. If at any time these criteria are no longer met, the disposal group would be reclassified as held and used. We evaluate the held for sale classification and the fair value of such disposal groups at each reporting period. The fair value of assets held for sale is determined considering active bids from potential buyers and also using the income, the market or the transaction valuation approaches or a combination thereof. The fair value analysis using the income, market and transaction approach for assets held for sale is similar to the fair value analysis of reporting units for goodwill impairment described above and requires significant judgment. Restructuring charges We record restructuring charges related to excess facilities and one time severance costs at fair value only when the liability is incurred. Severance costs associated with our standard restructuring plans are recorded once the costs are determined to be both probable and estimable. Excess facilities restructuring charges take into account the fair value of the future lease obligations of the abandoned space, including the potential for sublease income. Estimating the amount of sublease income requires management to make estimates for the space that will be rented, the rate per square foot that might be received and the vacancy period of each property. These estimates could differ materially from actual amounts due to changes in the real estate markets in which the properties are located, such as the supply of office space and prevailing lease rates. Changing market conditions by location and considerable work with third party leasing companies require us to periodically review each lease and change our estimates on a prospective basis, as necessary. Fair Value of Financial Instruments Our Convertible Debentures have contingent interest payments that are considered to be an embedded derivative which is marked to market at the end of each reporting period. We utilize a valuation model based on simulations of stock prices, interest rates, credit ratings and bond prices to estimate the value of the embedded derivative. The inputs to the model include risk adjusted interest rates, volatility and average yield curve observations and stock price. Several significant inputs to the model are not observable and require management judgment. 55 Table of Contents Stock based compensation We use the Black Scholes option pricing model to determine the fair value of stock options and employee stock purchase plan shares which contain a service and or performance condition. The determination of the fair value of stock based awards on the date of grant using an option pricing model is affected by our stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of complex and subjective variables. These variables include our expected stock price volatility over the expected term of the awards, actual and projected employee stock option exercise behaviors, risk free interest rate and expected dividends. We estimate the expected term of options granted based on observed and expected time to post vesting exercise and or cancellations. Expected volatility is based on a combination of historical volatility of our common stock over a period commensurate with the expected life of the options and the mean historical implied volatility from traded options. We base the risk free interest rate that we use in the option pricing model on U.S. Treasury zero coupon issues with remaining terms similar to the expected term on the options. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future and therefore use an expected dividend yield of zero in the option pricing model. We are required to estimate forfeitures at the time of grant and revise those estimates in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. We use historical data to estimate pre vesting option forfeitures and record stock based compensation expense only for those awards that are expected to vest. We use the Monte Carlo simulation option pricing model to determine the fair value of market based awards. The Monte Carlo simulation option pricing model takes into account the same input assumptions as the Black Scholes model; however, it also further incorporates into the fair value determination the possibility that the market condition may not be satisfied. If factors change and as a result we employ different assumptions for estimating stock based compensation expense in future periods, the stock based compensation expense we record for such future periods may differ significantly from what we have recorded in the current period and could materially affect our operating income (loss), net income (loss) and net income (loss) per share. Income taxes Accounting for income taxes requires significant judgments in the development of estimates used in income tax calculations. Such judgments include, but are not limited to, the likelihood we would realize the benefits of net operating loss carryforwards, domestic and or foreign tax credit carryforwards, the adequacy of valuation allowances, and the rates used to measure transactions with foreign subsidiaries. To the extent recovery of deferred tax assets is not likely, we record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. The extent of our operations involves dealing with uncertainties and judgments in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions. The final taxes payable are dependent upon many factors, including negotiations with taxing authorities in various jurisdictions and resolution of disputes arising from U.S. federal, state, and international tax audits Effective January 1, 2007, we adopted FASB Interpretation No. 48 (FIN 48), Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes. FIN 48 is an interpretation of SFAS No. 109 (SFAS 109), Accounting for Income Taxes, and provides for the recognition and measurement of uncertain tax positions. Under FIN 48, an entity may only recognize or continue to recognize tax positions that meet a more likely than not threshold. We adjust these amounts in light of changing facts and circumstances; however, due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from our current estimate of the tax liabilities. 56 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table sets forth selected information regarding our results of operations as a percentage of revenues: Year Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Revenues 100 % 100 % 100 % Costs and expenses Cost of revenues 24 28 29 Sales and marketing 17 28 32 Research and development 10 12 9 General and administrative 21 31 24 Restructuring, impairments and other charges (reversals), net 20 28 (1 ) Amortization of other intangible assets 1 2 3 Acquired in process research and development 1 Total costs and expenses 93 129 97 Operating income (loss) 7 (29 ) 3 Other income, net 5 11 5 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes, loss from unconsolidated entities and minority interest 12 (18 ) 8 Income tax (expense) benefit (4 ) 1 29 Loss from unconsolidated entities, net of tax Minority interest, net of tax 2 (1 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations 10 (18 ) 37 (Loss) income from discontinued operations, net of tax (49 ) 2 Net (loss) income (39 %) (18 %) 39 % Revenues by Segment We have two reportable segments: Internet Infrastructure and Identity Services (3IS) and Other Services. A comparison of revenues is presented below: 2008 %Change 2007 %Change 2006 (Dollars in thousands) Internet Infrastructure and Identity Services $ 936,317 20 % $ 783,171 23 % $ 638,554 Other Services 25,418 (60 %) 64,286 (81 %) 344,180 Total revenues $ 961,735 13 % $ 847,457 (14 %) $ 982,734 The changes in revenues during the periods presented are described in the segment discussions that follow. Internet Infrastructure and Identity Services (3IS) 3IS segment revenues increased $153.1 million in 2008, as compared to 2007. 3IS segment revenues increased $144.6 million in 2007, as compared to 2006. 57 Table of Contents The following table compares active domain names ending in .com and .net managed by our Naming Services business and the approximate installed base of SSL certificates in our SSL Certificate Services business for each year presented: December 31,2008 %Change December 31,2007 %Change December 31,2006 Active domain names ending in .com and .net 90.4 million 12 % 80.4 million 24 % 65.0 million Installed base of SSL certificates 1,118,000 13 % 987,000 18 % 840,000 Naming Services Revenues in our Naming Services business are derived from registrations for domain names in the .com, .net, .cc, .tv, .name and .jobs domain name registries. Revenues from .tv, .cc, .name, and .jobs are not significant. For domain names registered with the .com and .net registries, we receive a fee per annual registration that is fixed pursuant to our agreements with ICANN. Changes in revenues are driven largely by increases in the number of new domain name registrations and the renewal rate for existing registrations, as well as fee increases as permitted under our agreements with ICANN. As of December 31, 2008, we have the contractual right to increase the fees for .com domain name registrations up to 7% each year during any two years over the remaining four years of our agreement with ICANN through November 30, 2012. As of December 31, 2008, we have the contractual right to increase the fees for .net domain name registrations up to 10% each year during the remaining three years of our agreement with ICANN through September 30, 2011. During 2008, the growth in the number of domain names registered was primarily driven by continued Internet growth and adoption, though we have seen some signs of slowing growth in domain name registrations for customers engaged in the business of on line advertising. We expect that new name registrations and renewals from customers engaged in the business of participating in on line advertising will continue to weaken through 2009 primarily due to a decrease in earnings per click for those domain name holders. We expect that on line advertising domain names will become a smaller part of our business; these names comprise approximately 7% of our active domain names zone ending in .com and .net as of December 31, 2008. Towards the end of 2008, we started seeing signs of slowing growth in new name registrations for traditional names (other than on line advertising names) as well due to the current macro economic environment. We expect that weakening economic conditions will contribute to slowing growth rates in 2009 for the total worldwide domain name zone as well as for the .com and .net domain name zones under our management. We are experiencing declines in on line advertising names and slowing growth in traditional names within North America. However, we are also experiencing continued growth in international markets where we have focused efforts to develop regions for growth with potential in both our .com and .net domain name zones over time. Our Naming Services revenues increased $102.6 million in 2008, as compared to 2007, primarily due to a 12% year over year increase in the number of active domain names ending in .com and .net and increases in our .com and .net registry fees in late 2007 of 7% and 10%, respectively, to $6.42 and $3.85, respectively as per our agreements with ICANN. On October 1, 2008, we increased our .com and .net domain name registry fees by 7% and 10%, respectively, to $6.86 and $4.23, respectively, as per our agreements with ICANN. Our Naming Services revenues increased $88.8 million in 2007, as compared to 2006, primarily due to a 24% year over year increase in the number of active domain names ending in .com and .net. SSL Certificate Services Revenues in our SSL Certificate Services business are derived from licensing and service fees charged to our customers for the issuance of SSL certificates that authenticate their identity to the third parties with whom they carry out secured transactions. Revenues in the SSL Certificate Services business are related to fees charged per certificate, which are based upon a number of factors, including: (i) the brand name under which the certificate is issued, which determines the level of encryption and rigor of authentication; (ii) the number of 58 Table of Contents servers authenticated, and (iii) the duration of the certification. We generally issue SSL certificates for one, two and three years, however, the majority of our customers tend to commit to shorter certifications. We have historically experienced healthy renewal rates, and have not increased prices for our SSL certificates during 2008 and 2007. During 2008, our installed base of SSL certificates from our GeoTrust&reg; and thawte&reg; brands increased at a higher rate than our higher priced VeriSign&reg; brand and as a result of this shift to lower priced brands, our average unit revenue decreased compared to prior periods. We expect that the number of our SSL certificates issued will continue to increase at a higher rate than the revenues recognized from our SSL Certificate Services due to the continued shift to lower priced brands. As we have a market share leadership at the high end of the SSL certificates market, our unit growth rate for the high end is limited by the overall segment growth. In the mid and low segments, where our market share is not as strong, we expect to see good growth opportunities for market share gains as these markets are growing faster than the high end market. Our EV SSL certificate sales, while still a small portion of our SSL Certificate Services business, continue to increase as we more than doubled our units sold compared to last year. Due to the effect of the economic slowdown, however, EV SSL certificates adoption has slowed as large scale customers delay their orders. We expect the mainstream adoption of EV SSL certificates will be deferred until we see improvements in the macro economic environment. The weakening economy is affecting our SSL Certificate Services business and, while we expect to experience growth, we expect those growth rates to decline in 2009 compared to 2008. Our SSL Certificate Services revenues increased $42.1 million in 2008, as compared to 2007, primarily due to a 13% year over year increase in the installed base of SSL certificates. Our SSL Certificate Services revenues increased $46.7 million in 2007, as compared to 2006, primarily due to an 18% year over year increase in the installed base of SSL certificates and recognizing a full year of revenues from the GeoTrust acquisition, which was completed in late 2006. IAS Revenues in our IAS business are derived from one time credential sales to customers seeking network services, and one time set up fees. We also charge an annual service fee based upon the number of individual users authorized by the customer to access its network and a customer support fee. Our managed PKI service is characterized by lower growth rates than other product lines within the IAS business, reflecting the greater maturity of our managed PKI service. We expect IAS revenues to continue to grow in 2009 primarily from growth in our VIP Services and Fraud Detection Services, but at a lower growth rate than 2008. Our IAS revenues increased $8.3 million in 2008, as compared to 2007, primarily due to increased demand for our fraud detection and identity protection services. Our IAS revenues increased $11.2 million in 2007, as compared to 2006 primarily due to increased demand for our unified authentication and identity protection services. Our expectations and trends for our core services are based on what we are observing and can project about the current macro economic environment. Our outlook is subject to broader changes in the market and could change. Other Services Other Services segment revenues decreased $38.9 million in 2008, as compared to 2007, primarily due to the divestiture of our majority ownership interest in Jamba in the first quarter of 2007, decrease in revenues from our Pre pay business and the divestiture of other legacy businesses. Other Services segment revenues decreased $279.9 million in 2007, as compared to 2006, primarily due to the divestiture of our majority ownership interest in Jamba in the first quarter of 2007 and a decrease in revenues from our Pre pay business. 59 Table of Contents We expect revenues for our Other Services segment to decrease in absolute dollars as we wind down our remaining non core Pre pay business in 2009. Geographic Revenues A comparison of our geographic revenues is presented below: 2008 %Change 2007 %Change 2006 (Dollars in thousands) United States $ 645,329 3 % $ 624,435 9 % $ 570,288 Switzerland 214,214 100 % 107,277 141 % 44,581 Japan 78,469 10 % 71,515 4 % 69,062 Germany 100 % 23,778 92 % 285,387 Other 23,723 16 % 20,452 52 % 13,416 Total revenues 961,735 847,457 982,734 Revenues are generally attributed to the respective countries in which our contracting entities are located, which does not necessarily reflect the location of our customers. 2008 compared to 2007: Revenues in the U.S. increased $20.9 million primarily as a result of the increase in the number of active domain names ending in .com and .net, an increase in our .com and .net registry fees in late 2007 and an increase in the installed base of SSL certificates. Revenues in Switzerland increased $106.9 million primarily due to the continued implementation of our global business structure, including contracting through our foreign subsidiaries for services provided to customers located outside the U.S. and Japan. Revenues in Japan increased $7.0 million primarily due to increases in demand for our SSL Certificate Services and IAS. Revenues in Germany decreased $23.8 million due to the divestiture of our majority ownership interest in Jamba in the first quarter of 2007. Revenues from our Other regions increased $3.3 million primarily due to growth in SSL Certificate Services and IAS. 2007 compared to 2006: Revenues in the U.S. increased $54.1 million primarily as a result of the increase in the number of active domain names ending in .com and .net coupled with an increase in the installed base of SSL certificates. Revenues in Switzerland increased $62.7 million primarily due to the continued implementation of our global business structure, including contracting through our foreign subsidiaries for services provided to customers located outside the U.S. and Japan. Revenues in Japan increased $2.5 million primarily due to increases in demand for our SSL Certificate Services and IAS. Revenues in Germany decreased $261.6 million due to the divestiture of our majority ownership interest in Jamba in the first quarter of 2007. Revenues from our Other regions increased $7.0 million due to growth in IAS. Mature markets, such as the U.S. and Western Europe, where broadband and e commerce have seen strong market penetration, may be expected to see decreasing incremental growth rates reflecting the maturity of these markets. We expect to see larger increases in revenues from Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA) and Australia, Japan and Asia Pacific (APAC) driven by greater growth in international regions, resulting from greater broadband and Internet penetration and expanding e commerce as electronic means of payment are increasingly adopted. 60 Table of Contents Cost of Revenues Cost of revenues consist primarily of costs related to providing digital certificate enrollment and issuance services, billing services, operational costs associated with the delivery of our services, customer support and training, consulting and development services, labor costs to provide security, costs of facilities and computer equipment used in these activities and allocations of indirect costs such as corporate overheads. All allocations of indirect costs are included in continuing operations. A comparison of cost of revenues is presented below: 2008 %Change 2007 %Change 2006 (Dollars in thousands) Cost of revenues $ 227,351 (6 %) $ 240,962 (16 %) $ 287,281 2008 compared to 2007: Cost of revenues decreased $13.6 million primarily due to decreases in direct cost of revenues, salary and employee benefits expenses, contract and professional services expenses, and allocated overhead expenses, partially offset by increases in telecommunication expenses, facility expenses and depreciation expenses. Direct cost of revenues decreased $5.7 million primarily due to the divestiture of our majority ownership interest in Jamba in the first quarter of 2007, partially offset by an increase in outside consulting costs for our Naming Services business. Salary and employee benefits expenses, which include stock based compensation benefits expenses, decreased $6.4 million primarily due to a decrease in headcount as a result of our 2008 restructuring plan. Contract and professional services expenses decreased $5.7 million primarily due to the divestiture of our majority ownership interest in Jamba, and a reduction in spending on consulting services as a result of managements realignment initiatives relating to the 2008 restructuring plan. Allocated overhead expenses decreased $6.0 million primarily due to a reduction in headcount and general corporate overhead expenses. Telecommunication expenses increased $6.0 million primarily due to increased spending on capacity for global constellation sites that support our .com and .net registries. Depreciation expense increased $2.6 million primarily due an increase in capitalized projects placed into service during 2008. Facilities expenses increased $2.1 million primarily due to an increase in operational and maintenance expense related to our new data center that was placed into service in July 2008. 2007 compared to 2006: Cost of revenues decreased $46.3 million primarily due to decreases in direct cost of revenues, salary and employee benefits expenses, contract and professional services expenses, and depreciation expense, partially offset by increases in telecommunication expenses and expense related to the realignment of our business divisions. Direct cost of revenues decreased $35.7 million primarily due to the divestiture of our majority ownership interest in Jamba in the first quarter of 2007, a reduction in revenues from our legacy and Pre pay businesses as well as discontinuance of product lines, partially offset by an increase from our Naming Services business due to an increase in registry fees. Contract and professional services expenses decreased $16.7 million primarily due to decrease in services as a result of the divestiture of our majority ownership interest in Jamba and a reduction in third party costs related to our Pre pay business, partially offset by an increase in external services related to our Naming Services and SSL Certificate Services businesses. Salary and employee benefits expenses, which includes stock based compensation expenses, decreased $5.8 million, primarily due to the divestiture of our majority ownership interest in Jamba and a reduction in headcount as a result of our 2007 restructuring plan. The decrease in salary and employee benefits expenses was partially offset by an increase in salary expenses due to the acquisition of GeoTrust during the latter half of 2006, and an increase in stock based compensation expenses due to an increase in the issuances of restricted stock to employees and a modification expense as a result of an amendment of our employee stock purchase plan to allow employees to increase their contribution withholding percentages in 2007. Depreciation expense decreased $6.6 million primarily due to an impairment of equipment related to our Pre pay business during the second quarter of 2007 and the divestiture of our majority ownership interest in Jamba. Telecommunication expenses increased $5.8 million primarily due to increased spending on capacity for global constellation sites that support our .com and .net registries. Allocated overhead expenses increased $14.9 million primarily due to the redeployment of 61 Table of Contents certain employees from the general and administrative function to the cost of revenues function resulting from the 2007 restructuring plan realignment initiatives. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of salaries, sales commissions, sales operations and other personnel related expenses, travel and related expenses, trade shows, costs of lead generation, costs of computer and communications equipment and support services, facilities costs, consulting fees, costs of marketing programs, such as the Internet, television, radio, print and direct mail advertising costs and allocations of indirect costs such as corporate overheads. All allocations of indirect costs are included in continuing operations. A comparison of sales and marketing expenses is presented below: 2008 %Change 2007 %Change 2006 (Dollars in thousands) Sales and marketing $ 167,184 (29 %) $ 236,729 (24 %) $ 312,829 2008 compared to 2007: Sales and marketing expenses decreased $69.5 million primarily due to decreases in salary and employee benefits expenses, travel expenses and allocated overhead expenses, partially offset by an increase in advertising and marketing expenses. Salary and employee benefits expenses, which include stock based compensation expenses, decreased $55.8 million primarily due to lower headcount resulting from the 2008 restructuring plan. Travel expenses decreased $6.2 million primarily due to cost savings initiatives relating to the 2008 restructuring plan. Allocated overhead expenses decreased $5.9 million primarily due to a reduction in headcount and general corporate overhead expenses. 2007 compared to 2006: Sales and marketing expenses decreased $76.1 million primarily due to a decrease in advertising and marketing expenses, partially offset by increases in salary and employee benefits expenses and expenses related to the realignment of our business divisions. Advertising and marketing expenses decreased $117.7 million primarily due to the divestiture of our majority ownership interest in Jamba in the first quarter of 2007 and the result of managements cost reduction efforts. Salary and employee benefits expenses, which includes stock based compensation expenses, increased $23.4 million primarily due to recognizing a full year of expense for headcount from our acquisition of GeoTrust during the latter half of 2006 and due to an increase in stock based compensation expenses that resulted from an increase in the issuances of restricted stock to employees and a modification expense as a result of an amendment of our employee stock purchase plan to allow employees to increase their contribution withholding percentages in 2007. The increase in salary and benefits expenses was partially offset by a reduction in headcount related to the 2007 restructuring plan and due to the divestiture of our majority ownership interest in Jamba. Allocated overhead expenses increased $20.5 million primarily due to the redeployment of certain employees from the general and administrative function to the sales and marketing function resulting from the 2007 restructuring plan realignment initiatives. Research and Development Research and development expenses consist primarily of costs related to research and development personnel, including salaries and other personnel related expenses, consulting fees and the costs of facilities, computer and communications equipment, support services used in service and technology development and allocations of indirect costs such as corporate overheads. All allocations of indirect costs are included in continuing operations. 62 Table of Contents A comparison of research and development is presented below: 2008 %Change 2007 %Change 2006 (Dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 91,508 (9 %) $ 100,213 12 % $ 89,834 2008 compared to 2007: Research and development expenses decreased $8.7 million primarily due to decreases in contract and professional services expenses and allocated overhead expenses, partially offset by an increase in depreciation expense. Contract and professional services expenses decreased $10.0 million primarily due to decreased deployment of external consultants resulting from the 2008 restructuring plan initiatives. Allocated overhead expenses decreased $3.8 million primarily due to a reduction in general corporate overhead expenses. Depreciation expense increased $4.3 million due to additional capitalized projects placed into service in 2008. 2007 compared to 2006: Research and development expenses increased $10.4 million primarily due to increase in expenses related to the realignment of our business divisions, partially offset by a decrease in contract and professional services. Allocated overhead expenses increased $18.8 million primarily due to the redeployment of certain employees from the general and administrative function to the research and development function resulting from the 2007 restructuring plan realignment initiatives. Contract and professional services expenses decreased $4.4 million primarily due to a decrease in the use of external consultants for research and development projects in 2007 General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries and other personnel related expenses for our executive, administrative, legal, finance, information technology and human resources personnel, facilities, computer and communications equipment, management information systems, support services, professional services fees, certain tax and license fees, bad debt expense and allocations of indirect costs such as corporate overheads. All allocations of indirect costs are included in continuing operations. A comparison of general and administrative expenses is presented below: 2008 %Change 2007 %Change 2006 (Dollars in thousands) General and administrative $ 206,294 (22 %) $ 263,862 13 % $ 233,877 2008 compared to 2007: General and administrative expenses decreased $57.6 million primarily due to decreases in salary and employee benefits expenses, contract and professional services expenses, depreciation expense and legal expenses. Legal expenses decreased $31.2 million primarily due to lower litigation expenses and the reversal of certain previously accrued estimated litigation settlement costs in excess of actual final outcome, offset by legal consulting fees related to our plan to divest or wind down our non core businesses during 2008. Salary and employee benefits expenses, which includes stock based compensation expenses, decreased $27.4 million primarily due to severance charges related to a former chief executive officer recorded in the second quarter of 2007, $5.9 million in additional penalties recorded in the latter half of 2007 that resulted from late payments of federal and state payroll taxes, and a reduction in headcount relating to the 2008 restructuring plan. The decrease in salary and employee benefits expenses was partially offset by $4.9 million of stock based compensation expenses related to the acceleration of vesting of stock based awards for a former chief executive officer in the second quarter of 2008. Contract and professional services expenses decreased $8.9 million due to cost savings initiatives and reduction in external services as a result of our plan to divest or wind down our non core businesses. Depreciation expense decreased $3.9 million primarily due to the sale of part of our Mountain View facility in the second quarter of 2008. Allocated expenses increased $14.3 million primarily due to proportionately higher headcount in the general and administrative function. 63 Table of Contents 2007 compared to 2006: General and administrative expenses increased $30.0 million primarily due to increases in salary and employee benefits expenses and legal expenses, partially offset by a decrease in expenses related to the realignment of our business divisions. Salary and employee benefit expenses increased $33.6 million primarily due to severance charges related to a former chief executive officer and former chief financial officer. Stock based compensation expenses increased due to an increase in the issuances of restricted stock to employees and a modification expense as a result of an amendment of our employee stock purchase plan to allow employees to increase their contribution withholding percentages in 2007. Legal expenses increased $14.9 million primarily due to litigation accruals, partially offset by a decrease in legal expenses, which were higher in 2006 associated with the stock option investigation. These increases were primarily offset by a decrease in allocated overhead expenses of $25.1 million primarily due to the redeployment of certain employees from the general and administrative function to certain other functions resulting from the 2007 restructuring plan realignment initiatives. Restructuring, impairments and other charges (reversals), net A comparison of restructuring, impairments and other charges (reversals), net, is presented below: Year Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (In thousands) 2008 restructuring plan charges $ 31,484 $ $ 2007 restructuring plan charges 369 20,115 2003 and 2002 restructuring plan reversals (60) (99) (6,209 ) Total restructuring charges (reversals) for continuing operations 31,793 20,016 (6,209 ) Impairments and other charges for continuing operations 156,758 214,961 Total restructuring, impairments and other charges (reversals), net, for continuing operations 188,551 234,977 (6,209 ) Total restructuring, impairments and other charges, net, for discontinued operations 84,445 57,285 1,738 Total restructuring, impairments and other charges (reversals), net $ 272,996 $ 292,262 $ (4,471 ) The changes in restructuring, impairments and other charges (reversals), net, are primarily due to the timing of our restructuring initiatives. 2008 Restructuring Plan: In late 2007, we announced a restructuring plan to change our business strategy to be more aligned with our core competencies, which are to provide highly scaleable, reliable and secure Internet infrastructure and identity services to customers around the world. The 2008 restructuring plan includes workforce reductions, abandonment of excess facilities and other exit costs. As of December 31, 2008, we recorded $69.6 million in restructuring charges, inclusive of amounts for discontinued operations, under our 2008 restructuring plan. See Note 5, Restructuring, Impairments and Other Charges (Reversals), Net, of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Form 10 K for further information on our restructuring plans. Under our 2008 restructuring plan, through December 31, 2008, we notified certain employees of their termination and recognized total consolidated expense relating to severance and benefit costs of $63.8 million, inclusive of amounts for discontinued operations. As part of the 2008 restructuring plan, we anticipate recording additional charges related to our workforce reduction, excess facilities and other exit costs, the timing of which will primarily depend upon the timing of notification of the employees leaving VeriSign as determined by local employment laws and business requirements, and as we exit facilities. In addition, we anticipate incurring additional charges associated with productivity improvement initiatives and expense reduction measures. While the estimate of these charges is not yet finalized, the total amount and timing of these charges will depend upon the nature, timing, and extent of these future actions. 64 Table of Contents 2007 Restructuring Plan: In January 2007, we initiated a restructuring plan to execute a company wide reorganization replacing our previous business unit structure with a combined worldwide sales and services team, and an integrated development and products organization. The restructuring plan included workforce reductions, abandonment of excess facilities and other exit costs. 2003 and 2002 Restructuring Plans: In November 2003, we initiated a restructuring plan related to the sale of our Network Solutions business and the realignment of other business units. In April 2002, we initiated a plan to restructure our operations to rationalize, integrate and align resources. All charges relating to the 2002 and 2003 plans have been incurred as of December 31, 2008. Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets In 2008, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $77.6 million related to our VeriSign Japan reporting unit, which is classified as continuing operations. In 2008, we also recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $45.8 million related to our Post pay business, which is classified as discontinued operations. See Note 7, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Form 10 K for further information regarding the impairment of goodwill related to the VeriSign Japan and Post pay reporting units. In 2007, we recorded impairment charges of $182.2 million and $62.6 million related to goodwill and other intangible assets, respectively, related to our former Content Services reporting unit, as a result of our decision to divest our non core businesses. In 2007, the entire impairment charge related to goodwill was classified as continuing operations and of the impairment charge related to other intangible assets, $15.6 million was classified as continuing operations and $47.0 million was classified as discontinued operations. In 2007, we wrote off approximately $4.8 million of other intangible assets specifically related to abandoned technology acquired for a specific customer, all of which relates to continuing operations. In 2006, we wrote off approximately $2.0 million of other intangible assets specifically related to abandoned technology acquired for a specific customer, which is classified as discontinued operations. Other charges In 2008, we recorded a loss of $79.1 million in continuing operations as a result of the sale of certain Mountain View facilities. The sale of the Mountain View facilities was consummated as a result of our 2008 restructuring plan to divest or wind down our non core businesses. In 2007, we recognized an impairment charge of $4.3 million for property and equipment, net, of the former Content Services business reporting, which is classified as continuing operations. In 2007, we recorded additional other charges of $9.0 million for excess and obsolete property and equipment, specifically related to a significant change in the operations of an asset group. Of the total consolidated other charges, $0.9 million relates to discontinued operations in 2007. Amortization of Other Intangible Assets A comparison of amortization of other intangible assets is presented below: Year Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (In thousands) Amortization of other intangible assets for continuing operations $ 10,069 $ 16,506 $ 29,258 Amortization of other intangible assets for discontinued operations 15,594 99,558 93,509 Total amortization of other intangible assets $ 25,663 $ 116,064 $ 122,767 65 Table of Contents 2008 compared to 2007: Total amortization of other intangible assets decreased $90.4 million primarily due to a $62.6 million impairment charge to other intangible assets in 2007, the reclassification of certain other intangible assets to assets held for sale during 2008 and due to certain other intangible assets becoming fully amortized in 2007. The Company ceases to amortize its other intangible assets upon reclassification to assets held for sale. 2007 compared to 2006: Total amortization of other intangible assets decreased $6.7 million primarily due to certain other intangible assets sold as part of the divestiture of our majority ownership interest in Jamba in the first quarter of 2007, partially offset by an increase related to other intangible assets acquired in business combinations in 2006. See Note 7, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Form 10 K for further information. Acquired In process Research and Development In 2006, we wrote off $16.7 million of in process research and development (IPR&D) acquired, of which $5.1 million is classified as discontinued operations. At the date of each acquisition, the projects associated with the IPR&D efforts had not yet reached technological feasibility and the research and development in process had no alternative future uses. Accordingly, these amounts were charged to expense on the respective acquisition date of each of the acquired companies. In 2008 and 2007, we did not acquire any IPR&D. Other Income, Net Other income, net, consists primarily of interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents, and investments, interest expense related to our borrowings, net gains or losses on the sale and impairment of investments, net gains or losses on the divestiture of businesses, realized and unrealized gains and losses on the contingent interest derivative on the Convertible Debentures, income from transition services agreements, and the net effect of foreign currency gains and losses. The net effect of foreign currency gains and losses is included in Other, net, in the table below. A comparison of other income, net, is presented below: Year Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (In thousands) Interest income $ 16,376 $ 47,074 $ 27,123 Interest expense (41,062 ) (18,266 ) (7,838 ) Net (loss) gain on sale and impairment of investments (6,365 ) (1,788 ) 21,234 Net gain on divestiture of businesses and unconsolidated entities 80,583 71,216 Unrealized gain on joint venture call options 10,925 Realized and unrealized gain (loss) on contingent interest derivative on Convertible Debentures 3,616 (15,301 ) Income from transition services agreements 3,641 Other, net (4,316 ) 758 2,601 Total other income, net $ 52,473 $ 94,618 $ 43,120 2008 compared to 2007: Other income, net, decreased $42.1 million in 2008. Interest income decreased $30.7 million due to lower average invested balances, primarily resulting from stock repurchase activity in 2008, as well as lower average interest rates. Interest expense increased $22.8 million primarily due to interest expense on our Convertible Debentures issued in August 2007. In 2008, we recognized a gain of $77.9 million upon the divestiture of our remaining 49% ownership interest in the Jamba joint ventures, compared to a gain of $68.2 million recognized in 2007 upon the divestiture of our majority ownership interest in Jamba. In 2008, we 66 Table of Contents recorded a charge of $8.2 million for an other than temporary impairment of funds held by the Primary Fund and the International Fund as a result of managements assessment of our investment portfolio with consideration to the economic market conditions at the time. In 2008, we recorded $3.6 million of unrealized gains on the contingent interest derivative on our Convertible Debentures compared to $15.3 million of realized and unrealized losses on the contingent interest derivative on Convertible Debentures in 2007. Since we are required to mark to market the fair value of the contingent interest derivative on our Convertible Debentures at each reporting period, such revaluation could result in further gains and losses. We have entered into certain transition services agreements with the purchasers of certain divested businesses. The income received from such agreements was $3.6 million in 2008. 2007 compared to 2006: Other income, net, increased $51.5 million in 2007. Interest income increased $20.0 million due to higher average cash balances throughout the year, primarily resulting from the issuance of our Convertible Debentures as well as the lack of cash outlays on acquisitions in 2007. Interest expense increased $10.4 million primarily due to interest expense related to our Convertible Debentures issued in August 2007. We recognized a gain of approximately $68.2 million upon the divestiture of our majority ownership interest in Jamba. We recorded $10.9 million of unrealized gain on the joint venture call options and $15.3 million of realized and unrealized losses on the contingent interest derivative on our Convertible Debentures. Other activity during 2007 included a $1.8 million net loss on the sale of investments and a $3.0 million gain on the divestiture of a business unit. Income Tax Expense For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, we recorded income tax expense from continuing operations of $42.8 million or 34.7% of pretax income, income tax benefit of $9.3 million or 6.1% of pretax loss, and income tax benefit of $297.2 million or (441.1)% of pretax income, respectively. Our effective tax rate increased in 2008 as compared to 2007 primarily due to the 2008 estimated losses on assets held for sale, impairments of nondeductible goodwill and the agreement to the conclusions of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) examination for fiscal years 2004 and 2005, partially offset by the release of valuation allowances and tax reserves related to the utilization of certain carryforward attributes and statute closures. Our effective tax rate increased in 2007 as compared to 2006 primarily due to the 2007 impairments of nondeductible goodwill and a benefit for the reduction in our valuation allowance in 2006 partially offset by the implementation of a global business structure in 2006. Our effective tax rate in 2007 also differs from 2006 because we were granted relief from the IRS in 2006 for an uncertainty regarding a tax benefit resulting from a prior divestiture. As a result, we benefited income tax expense of $113.4 million in 2006. As of December 31, 2008, we had deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences, tax losses, and tax credits of $352.0 million before the offset of certain deferred liabilities. With the exception of certain deferred tax assets related to book impairments on investments and certain foreign net operating loss carryforwards, management believes it is more likely than not that forecasted income, including income that may be generated as a result of certain tax planning strategies, together with the tax effects of the deferred tax liabilities, will be sufficient to fully recover the remaining deferred tax assets. During 2008, we released a valuation allowance of $16.0 million related to the utilization of U.S. federal and state capital loss carryforwards. During 2008, we also released a valuation allowance of $7.4 million related to the deferred tax assets of our Australian subsidiary. Such release resulted in a benefit to Income tax expense of $3.8 million and a reduction to Goodwill of $3.6 million. We will continue to evaluate the realizability of our deferred tax assets quarterly and will assess the need for additional valuation allowances, if any, in subsequent quarters. On December 29, 2008, we received and agreed to a Revenue Agents Report reflecting the IRS conclusion of its audit of the years ended December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2005. The Company agreed with the IRS conclusions which primarily related to the research and experimental tax credits, the results of which are reflected in the tax expense in the amount of $12.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. 67 Table of Contents Loss from unconsolidated entities, net of tax Loss from unconsolidated entities, net of tax, represents the net loss recognized from the Jamba joint ventures entered into in the first quarter of 2007. Year Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (In thousands) Loss from unconsolidated entities, net of tax $ (3,868 ) $ (2,018 ) $ 2008 compared to 2007: Loss from unconsolidated subsidiaries, net of tax, increased due to a decrease in revenues and an increase in operating expenses in the Jamba joint ventures. On October 6, 2008, we sold our remaining 49% ownership interest in the Jamba joint ventures to Fox. 2007 compared to 2006: Loss from unconsolidated subsidiaries, net of tax, was $2.0 million during 2007. Minority Interest, Net of Tax Minority interest, net of tax represents the portion of net income belonging to minority shareholders of our consolidated subsidiary, VeriSign Japan. The following table presents a comparison of minority interest, net of tax: Year Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (In thousands) Minority interest, net of tax $ 16,009 $ (3,840 ) $ (2,875 ) 2008 compared to 2007: Minority interest, net of tax, decreased primarily due to a goodwill impairment charge related to our VeriSign Japan reporting unit. 2007 compared to 2006: Minority interest, net of tax, increased primarily due to an increase in SSL Certificate Services revenues from our VeriSign Japan subsidiary. Discontinued operations, net of tax As of December 31, 2008, businesses classified as held for sale and presented as discontinued operations included the following: Messaging and Mobile Media Services, CPS, Communications Services, International Clearing, RTP and ESS. Businesses that have been divested in 2008, and whose results of operations are reflected as discontinued operations include the following: DBMS, Post pay, Communications Consulting, EMM and SC&A. The following table presents the revenues and the components of discontinued operations, net of tax: Year Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (In thousands) Revenues $ 593,700 $ 654,383 $ 585,935 (Loss) income before income taxes $ (18,930 ) $ 16,981 $ 65,767 Income tax expense (26,726 ) (19,930 ) (44,573 ) (Loss) income from discontinued operations (45,656 ) (2,949 ) 21,194 (Loss) gain on sale of discontinued operations and estimated losses on assets held for sale, before income taxes (433,232 ) 1,357 Income tax benefit 11,604 (Loss) gain on sale of discontinued operations (421,628 ) 1,357 Total (loss) income from discontinued operations $ (467,284 ) $ (1,592 ) $ 21,194 68 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 31, 2008 2007 (In thousands) Cash and cash equivalents $ 789,068 $ 1,376,722 Restricted cash 1,858 46,936 Total $ 790,926 $ 1,423,658 At December 31, 2008, our principal source of liquidity was $790.9 million of cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash. In 2008, we divested certain non core businesses for a total consideration of $102.4 million. In 2008, we received cash consideration of $74.9 million, net of $12.1 million of cash contributed and $ 1.6 million of transaction costs. The remaining balance of $13.8 million is expected to be received in 2009. See Note 4, Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Form 10 K for further information regarding the completed divestitures. In October 2008, we sold our remaining 49% ownership interest in the Jamba joint ventures to Fox for $199.4 million. Pursuant to the sale agreement, certain outstanding debts and accrued but unpaid interest owed among us and the Jamba joint ventures have been repaid, and we agreed to the settlement and discharge of all other amounts owed among us and the Jamba joint ventures as of the date of the agreement. In October 2008, we completed the acquisition of GNR for approximately $11.7 million in cash (net of cash acquired of $1.1 million), which included $0.6 million to cover certain transaction costs. In September 2008, the trust established during 2004 for our director and officer liability self insurance coverage was terminated, and as a result $45.0 million was released from the trust. As of December 31, 2008, the amount is recorded as Cash and cash equivalents as our ability to use it is no longer restricted. In June 2008, we sold certain property and equipment in our Mountain View, California location for a cash consideration of $47.6 million, net of transaction costs, and recorded a loss of $79.1 million in continuing operations. As a part of the transaction, we entered into a lease agreement with the purchaser of our Mountain View property. Under the terms of the lease agreement, we leased the property for an initial term of 30 months, which will expire on December 31, 2010, with an option to extend the lease for five years from the date of initial term expiration. Our lease obligations under the term will be approximately $5.6 million and $5.4 million in 2009 and 2010, respectively. In 2008, we entered into an ASR agreement to repurchase $600.0 million of our common stock under the 2008 Stock Repurchase Program and paid $600.0 million to a financial institution in exchange for an initial purchase of 15.1 million shares. The ASR agreement was completed on July 10, 2008, when we received an additional 1.4 million shares for an aggregate of 16.5 million shares under the terms of the ASR agreement. The average price per share paid on the ASR agreement was $36.33. In August 2008, our Board of Directors authorized additional stock repurchases under our 2008 Stock Repurchase Program of an aggregate purchase price of $680.0 million of our common stock. We currently have $680.0 million remaining for further repurchases under the 2008 Stock Repurchase Program. In the first quarter of 2008, we repurchased approximately 15.9 million shares of our common stock at an average stock price of $33.85 per share for an aggregate cost of $544.7 million under the 2006 Stock Repurchase Program. In July 2008, we repurchased approximately 3.5 million shares of our common stock at an average stock price of $34.38 per share for an aggregate of $120.0 million pursuant to a stock repurchase agreement with a financial institution under the 2006 Stock Repurchase Program. In November 2008, we repurchased 69 Table of Contents approximately 2.7 million shares of our common stock at an average stock price of $18.83 per share for an aggregate cost of $50.0 million under the 2006 Stock Repurchase Program. As of December 31, 2008, approximately $270.0 million is available for further repurchases under the 2006 Stock Repurchase Program. In aggregate, as of December 31, 2008, $950.0 million is available for repurchase of our common stock under the 2008 and 2006 Stock Repurchase Programs. As of December 31, 2008, we have $1.9 million classified as restricted cash, of which $0.3 million is pledged as collateral for standby letters of credit that guarantee certain of our contractual obligations, primarily relating to our real estate lease agreements, the longest of which is expected to mature in 2010, and $1.6 million represents employee payroll withholdings, net of claims, paid related to the short term disability program under the State of California Employment Development Departments Voluntary Plan Fund guidelines. In 2007, we issued $1.25 billion principal amount of 3.25% convertible debentures due 2037. We are required to pay cash interest semiannually on February 15 and August 15 of each year until maturity. In 2008, we paid $40.1 million for interest on the Convertible Debentures. In 2006, we entered into a $500.0 million senior unsecured revolving credit facility (the Facility) with a syndicate of banks and other financial institutions under which VeriSign, or certain designated subsidiaries may be borrowers. The Facility is available for cash borrowings up to $500.0 million and for the issuance of letters of credit up to a maximum limit of $50.0 million. In 2008, we received and paid in full $200.0 million from a draw down of the Facility. As of December 31, 2008, there were no outstanding borrowings under the Facility. Any future borrowings under the Facility will be used for working capital, capital expenditures, permitted acquisitions and repurchases of our common stock and other lawful corporate purposes. See Note 9, Credit Facility, of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Form 10 K for further information. In summary, our cash flows were as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (In thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $482,043 $471,989 $474,787 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 78,755 210,557 (562,404 ) Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities (1,164,027 ) 188,671 110,735 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 15,575 3,721 6 Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents $(587,654 ) $874,938 $23,124 Net cash provided by operating activities Our largest source of operating cash flows is cash collections from our customers. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities are for personnel related expenditures, and other general operating expenses, as well as payments related to taxes and facilities. 2008 compared to 2007: Cash provided by operations increased primarily due to an increase in revenues in 2008 coupled with an increase in cash collections from customers due to an improved collection process implemented in 2008. The increase in cash receipts was partially offset by payments for interest on our Convertible Debentures, and a decrease in interest income received due to lower average cash balances and lower interest rates in 2008. 2007 compared to 2006: Cash provided by operations decreased marginally primarily due to a decrease in cash received from customers resulting from the divestiture of our majority interest in Jamba, coupled with the timing of receipts from customers. The decrease in cash receipts was partially offset by a decrease in cash 70 Table of Contents payments to suppliers and employees primarily resulting from lower headcount, an increase in cash received for interest income due to higher average cash balances in 2007 and a decrease in cash payments for income taxes due to lower pre tax income in 2007. Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities The changes in cash flows from investing activities primarily relate to business combinations, divestiture of businesses, timing of purchases, maturities and sales of investments, purchases of property and equipment, investments in unconsolidated entities and long term note receivable. 2008 compared to 2007: Net cash provided by investing activities decreased primarily due to the reclassification of the money market funds held by The Reserve classified as cash equivalents to prepaid expenses and other current assets in 2008, offset by an increase in proceeds received in 2008 due to the divestiture of businesses, the sale of our investments in unconsolidated entities, the sale of property and equipment related to part of our Mountain View facilities and the termination of the trust established for our directors and officers liability self insurance coverage. The decrease was also due to lower cash proceeds from maturities and sales of investments and cash spent on our acquisition of GNR, partially offset by lower cash spent on purchases of property and equipment. 2007 compared to 2006: Net cash provided by investing activities increased primarily due to proceeds received upon the divestiture of our majority ownership interest in Jamba and certain other businesses, and a decrease in cash spent on business combinations and purchases of investments, partially offset by a decrease in cash received from maturities and sales of investments. Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities The changes in cash flows from financing activities primarily relate to borrowings and payments under debt obligations, as well as stock repurchase and stock option exercise activities. 2008 compared to 2007: Net cash used in financing activities increased primarily due to stock repurchases in 2008 without corresponding proceeds from financing activities, as compared to 2007 when stock repurchases were primarily funded by proceeds received from the issuance of the Convertible Debentures. The remaining increase in cash used in financing activities is primarily due to an increase in stock repurchases in 2008 and a decrease in proceeds received from issuance of common stock from stock option exercises and employee stock purchase plans. 2007 compared to 2006: Net cash provided by financing activities increased primarily due to proceeds received from issuance of the Convertible Debentures and an increase in proceeds received from the issuance of common stock upon stock option exercises and employee stock purchase plan purchases, partially offset by an increase in cash spent for stock repurchase activities and repayment of short term debt under the Facility. We believe existing cash and cash equivalents, together with funds generated from operations and the availability of financing, if necessary, from our Facility should be sufficient to meet our working capital, capital expenditure requirements and to service our debt for the next 12 months. Our philosophy regarding the maintenance of a balance sheet with a large component of cash, cash equivalents and short term investments reflects our views on potential future capital requirements relating to expansion of our businesses, related acquisitions, and share repurchases. We regularly assess our cash management approach and activities in view of our current and potential future needs. Impact of Inflation We believe that inflation has not had a significant impact on our operations during 2008, 2007 and 2006. 71 Table of Contents Property and Equipment Expenditures Our planned property and equipment expenditures for 2009 are anticipated to be approximately $104 million and will primarily be focused on productivity, cost improvement and market development initiatives for our 3IS business. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our significant non cancelable contractual obligations at December 31, 2008, and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods: Payments due by period Total 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Thereafter (In thousands) Contractual obligations Operating lease obligations $ 110,730 $ 31,019 $ 43,583 $ 19,766 $ 16,362 Purchase obligations 35,896 28,969 6,884 43 ICANN agreement 67,500 15,000 36,000 16,500 Junior subordinated convertible debentures principal and interest 2,428,125 40,625 81,250 81,250 2,225,000 Total $ 2,642,251 $ 115,613 $ 167,717 $ 117,559 $ 2,241,362 As of December 31, 2008, we had commitments under non cancelable operating leases for our facilities for various terms through 2017. See Note 15, Commitments and Contingencies, Leases, of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Form 10 K. We enter into certain purchase obligations with various vendors. Our significant purchase obligations primarily consist of firm commitments with telecommunication carriers and other service providers. We do not have any significant purchase obligations beyond 2012. In June 2008, we entered into a lease agreement with the purchaser of our Mountain View property. Under the terms of the lease agreement, we will lease the property for an initial term of 30 months, which will expire on December 31, 2010, with an option to extend the lease for five years from the date of initial term expiration. Our lease obligations under the term will be approximately $5.6 million and $5.4 million in 2009 and 2010, respectively. In 2007, we issued $1.25 billion principal amount of 3.25% convertible debentures due 2037. We will pay cash interest semiannually to the holders of the Convertible Debentures on February 15 and August 15 of each year until maturity. Interest paid for the Convertible Debentures for the year ended December 31, 2008, was approximately $40.1 million. See Note 10, Junior Subordinated Debentures, of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Form 10 K. In 2006, we entered into a contractual agreement with ICANN to be the sole registry operator for domain names in the .com top level domain through November 30, 2012. Under the agreement, we paid ICANN fixed registry level fees of $10.0 million in 2008 and $10.0 million in 2007. Beginning in 2009, the agreement provides for contingent payments upon meeting certain criteria based on growth in the number of annual domain name registrations. As of December 31, 2008, we have met the criteria and as a result our contractual payments will increase to the amounts as listed in the table above for the respective future periods. We provide for uncertain tax positions and adjust our unrecognized tax benefits accordingly. Due to the inherent uncertainty with respect to the timing of future cash outflows associated with our unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2008, we are unable to reliably estimate the timing of cash settlement with the respective taxing authorities. Therefore, $31.7 million of liabilities under FIN 48 have been excluded from the contractual obligations table above. See Note 14, Income Taxes, of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Form 10 K for further information regarding our unrecognized tax benefits. 72 Table of Contents We enter into indemnification agreements with many of our customers and certain other business partners in the ordinary course of business. See Note 15, Commitments and Contingencies, Indemnifications, of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Form 10 K for further information regarding our indemnifications. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements It is not our business practice to enter into off balance sheet arrangements. As of December 31,2008, we did not have any significant off balance sheet arrangements. See Note 15, Commitments and Contingencies, Off Balance Sheet Arrangements, of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Form 10 K for further information regarding off balance sheet arrangements. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1, Basis of Presentation, Recent Accounting Pronouncements, of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Form 10 K. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK In the latter half of 2008, there was a major disruption in the global credit markets due to the rising concerns about possible financial institution defaults, the bankruptcy filing of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (Lehman) and the potential for a deep economic recession. Following these disruptions, certain money market funds managed by The Reserve made various announcements that their underlying portfolios had experienced a loss of principal, the redemption rights of all holders were suspended indefinitely and the funds would be liquidated. The loss of principal was primarily related to the underlying securities of Lehman in the funds. At the time of the redemption suspension, we had $256.7 million invested in the Primary Fund and the International Fund which we had previously classified as Cash and cash equivalents and is now classified as Prepaid expenses and other current assets. Due to the lack of an active market for most corporate and bank debt securities, we assessed the fair value of the underlying securities within the Primary Fund and the International Fund based on a review of current investment ratings of the underlying securities within the money market funds coupled with an evaluation of the expected maturity value and the current performance of the securities within the funds in meeting scheduled payments of principal and interest. We based our estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of our investments in the Primary Fund and the International Fund. During the third quarter of 2008, we recognized an other than temporary impairment loss of $8.2 million in Other (loss) income, net, related to the underlying securities of Lehman held in the Primary Fund and the International Fund and the related liquidity risk in the investment. The credit and capital markets deteriorated significantly in 2008 and may continue to deteriorate into 2009. If these markets deteriorate further, or if we are allocated a portion of the legal and or administrative costs incurred by the Primary Fund and or the International Fund during their liquidation process, we may incur additional impairments, which could negatively affect its financial position, cash flows and results of operations. The timing of additional distributions from these money market funds are currently subject to the discretion of the funds boards of directors, possible oversight by the SEC and resolution of certain pending and possible future lawsuits against The Reserve. During the fourth quarter of 2008, we received a distribution of $98.2 million from the Primary Fund. As of December 31, 2008, we had $150.3 million in the Primary Fund and the International Fund. On January 30, 2009, we received $85.8 million from The Reserves International Fund and on February 20, we received $8.3 million from The Reserves Primary Fund. The total distributions to date represents approximately 85% and 65% of our total investment in the Primary Fund and the International Fund, respectively. 73 Table of Contents Interest rate sensitivity We invest our cash primarily in money market funds. In general, money market funds are not considered to be subject to interest rate risk because the interest paid on such funds fluctuates with the prevailing interest rate. As of December 31, 2008, our cash and cash equivalents consisted primarily of money market funds. Foreign exchange risk management We conduct business throughout the world and transact in multiple foreign currencies. As we continue to expand our international operations we are increasingly exposed to currency exchange rate risks. Our foreign currency risk management program is designed to mitigate foreign exchange risks associated with the monetary and non monetary assets and liabilities of our operations that are denominated in non functional currencies. The primary objective of this program is to minimize the gains and losses to income resulting from fluctuations in exchange rates. We may choose not to hedge certain foreign exchange exposures due to immateriality, prohibitive economic cost of hedging particular exposures, and limited availability of appropriate hedging instruments. We do not enter into foreign currency transactions for trading or speculative purposes, nor do we hedge foreign currency exposures in a manner that entirely offsets the effects of changes in exchange rates. The program may entail the use of forward or option contracts and in each case these contracts are limited to a duration of less than 12 months. As of December 31, 2008, our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations was not significant. At December 31, 2008, we held forward contracts in notional amounts totaling $69.0 million to mitigate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations associated with certain foreign currencies. All forward contracts are recorded at fair market value. A hypothetical uniform 10% strengthening or weakening in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the foreign currency derivatives outstanding would result in a decrease/increase in income of approximately $6 million. However, this would be largely offset by the remeasurement of our foreign currency denominated monetary and non monetary assets and liabilities resulting in an insignificant net impact to income. A hypothetical uniform 10% strengthening or weakening in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the foreign currencies in which our revenues and expenses are denominated would not result in a significant impact to our financial statements. There are inherent limitations in the sensitivity analysis presented, due primarily to the assumption that foreign exchange rate movements are linear and instantaneous. As a result, the analysis is unable to reflect the potential effects of more complex market changes that could arise, which may positively or negatively affect income. Market risk management The fair market value of the Convertible Debentures issued by us and due August 2037, is subject to interest rate risk and market risk due to the convertible feature of the debentures. Generally, the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. The fair market value of the Convertible Debentures will also increase as the market price of our stock increases and decrease as the market price falls. The interest and market value changes affect the fair market value of the Convertible Debentures but do not impact our financial position, cash flows or results of operations. As of December 31, 2008, the fair value of the Convertible Debentures was approximately $812.5 million, based on quoted market prices. The fair market value of the contingent interest derivative on Convertible Debentures is also subject to interest rate risk and market risk. Generally, the fair market value of the contingent interest derivative will change due to changes in interest rates as well as due to changes in the fair market value of the Convertible Debentures. 74 Table of Contents 
 
