ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS This Report on Form 10 K contains forward looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). These forward looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, including, among other things, statements regarding our anticipated costs and expenses and revenue mix. Forward looking statements include, among others, those statements including the words expects, anticipates, intends, believes and similar language. Our actual results may differ significantly from those projected in the forward looking statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10 K. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Form 10 K. We undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to the forward looking statements or reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document. Overview VeriSigns mission is to bring trust to the Internet. We offer a comprehensive spectrum of products and services that enable confidence among Internet users, website owners and operators of digital networks. VeriSigns Naming Services capabilities enable domain name registration through our registrar partners and provide network availability for registrars and Internet users alike. VeriSigns Authentication Services capabilities make it easier for consumers to identify websites that are authentic, safe and secure. We enhance business reputations, security and website uptime resulting in improved online traffic, sales conversion and customer loyalty for websites. We have the following two reportable segments: (1) Internet Infrastructure and Identity Services (3IS), which consists of Naming Services and Authentication Services; and (2) Other Services, which consists of the continuing operations of our Content Portal Services (CPS), our remaining non core business, and legacy products and services from divested businesses. Naming Services is the authoritative directory provider of all .com, .net, .cc, .tv, .name, .jobs and .edu domain names. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately 96.7 million domain names registered under the .com and .net registries, which are our principal registries. The number of domain names registered is largely driven by Internet usage and broadband penetration rates. Although growth in absolute number of registrations remains greatest in mature markets such as the United States (U.S.) and Western Europe, growth on an annual percentage basis is expected to be greatest in markets outside of the U.S. and Western Europe where Internet penetration has demonstrated the greatest potential for growth. We are largely insulated from the risk posed by fluctuations in exchange rates due to the fact that all revenues paid to us for .com and .net registrations are in U.S. dollars. VeriSign Internet Defense Services provide infrastructure assurance to organizations and is comprised of VeriSign iDefense Security Intelligence Service (iDefense) and VeriSign Internet Defense Network (VIDN). Revenues from VeriSign Internet Defense Services are not significant. Authentication Services is comprised of Business Authentication Services and User Authentication Services. Business Authentication Services enable enterprises and Internet merchants to implement and operate secure networks and websites that utilize Secure Socket Layer (SSL) protocol. Business Authentication Services provide customers the means to authenticate themselves to their end users and website visitors and to encrypt transactions and communications between client browsers and Web servers. We currently offer the following Business Authentication Services: VeriSign&reg;, thawte&reg;, and GeoTrust&reg; branded SSL certificates. As of December 31, 2009, we had an installed base of SSL certificates of approximately 1.2 million. The major factors 39 Table of Contents impacting the growth and performance of our Business Authentication Services are the penetration and adoption of the Internet, especially through broadband services, the spread of e commerce, the utilization of electronic means for executing financial transactions (such as credit card payments), and the extent to which advertising through search engines encourages consumers to engage in e commerce. As a result of the growing impact of the Internet on global commercial transactions and the current economic environment, we expect continued but slowing revenue growth in our business, primarily in markets outside of the U.S. where e commerce has the largest growth potential. User Authentication Services are intended to help enterprises secure intranets, extranets and other applications and devices, and provide authentication credentials. We currently offer the following User Authentication Services: VeriSign Identity Protection (VIP), managed public key infrastructure (PKI), and fraud detection services. As with our Business Authentication Services, the major factors impacting the growth and performance of our User Authentication Services are the penetration and adoption of the Internet, especially through broadband services, the spread of e commerce, the utilization of electronic means for executing financial transactions (such as credit card payments), and the extent to which advertising through search engines encourages consumers to engage in e commerce. We are working to expand our Business Authentication Services business offerings and solutions through the development of new services, including the VeriSign Trust Seal, which will build on or complement current offerings. The VeriSign Trust Seal authenticates that a customer is a legitimate business entity that owns and operates a website domain as well as provides assurance to website users that the website is free from malware. We expect that revenues from the VeriSign Trust Seal will not be significant in 2010. 2009 Business Highlights We recorded revenues of $1.0 billion from continuing operations in 2009, an increase of 7% as compared to 2008. The increase was primarily due to an increase in revenues from our Naming Services and to a lesser extent from our Authentication Services. We recorded income from continuing operations of $197.5 million in 2009, primarily due to an increase in revenues, a decrease in operating costs and expenses due to the implementation of strategic cost saving initiatives and a decrease in restructuring and impairment activity during 2009. We sold certain non core businesses for an aggregate net cash consideration of $477.4 million and recorded an aggregate gain on sale of $35.2 million. We repurchased 11.3 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate cost of $252.8 million under the 2008 Share Buyback Program. We received distributions of $16.3 million and $113.2 million from The Reserve Primary Fund (the Primary Fund) and The Reserve International Liquidity Fund, Ltd (the International Fund), respectively. As of December 31, 2009, we had $20.9 million outstanding in the Primary Fund and the International Fund. Divestiture Transactions and Sale of Other Businesses During the fourth quarter of 2007, we announced a change to our business strategy to allow management to focus its attention on our core competencies and to make additional resources available to invest in our core businesses. The strategy called for the divestiture or winding down of our non core businesses. We substantially completed this strategy during 2009. 40 Table of Contents During 2008 and 2009, we substantially completed all of our divestitures and the winding down of our non core businesses. In October 2009, we decided to wind down the operations of the CPS business after termination of active negotiations with a potential buyer. We expect the winding down to be completed no later than the end of 2010. The assets and liabilities related to CPS have been reclassified to held and used and the results of operations of CPS have been reclassified from discontinued operations to continuing operations as part of our Other Services segment for all periods presented. The Pre pay billing and payment (Pre pay) Services business was fully wound down in October 2009, and its results of operations were reclassified into discontinued operations for all periods presented. Having divested our non core businesses, additional resources are available to invest in our core services that remain: Naming Services and Authentication Services. The proceeds from the divestiture of non core businesses will be used for, but will not be limited to, investment in growth opportunities in or adjacent to our core services. Completed Divestitures in 2009 During 2009, we completed the divestiture or winding down of the following businesses, for aggregate net cash consideration of $477.4 million, and recorded an aggregate gain on sale of $35.2 million. The historical results of operations of our divested businesses have been reclassified as discontinued operations for all periods presented. We sold our Mobile Delivery Gateway (MDG) Services business which offered solutions to manage the complex operator interfaces, relationships, distribution, reporting and customer service for the delivery of premium mobile content to customers for net cash consideration of $21.6 million. We sold our Messaging and Mobile Media (MMM) Services business which consisted of the InterCarrier Messaging, PictureMail, Premium Messaging Gateway, and Mobile Enterprise Service offerings for net cash consideration of $174.4 million. As of December 31, 2009, the Company retained the Indian operations of the MMM Services business (MMM India) upon the sale of the MMM Services business on October 23, 2009, until certain regulatory matters were finalized within India. The Company completed the sale of MMM India in January 2010. We completed the winding down of our Pre pay Services business which licensed and managed solutions for prepay billing customers to deliver rating and billing services. We sold our Global Security Consulting (GSC) business which helped companies understand corporate security requirements, comply with all applicable regulations, identify security vulnerabilities, reduce risk, and meet the security compliance requirements applicable to the particular business and industry for net cash consideration of $4.9 million. We sold our Managed Security Services (MSS) business which enabled enterprises to effectively monitor and manage their network security infrastructure 24 hours per day, every day of the year, while reducing the associated time, expense, and personnel commitments by relying on the MSS business security platform and experienced security staff for net cash consideration of $42.9 million. We sold our Real Time Publisher (RTP) Services business which allowed organizations to obtain access to and organize large amounts of constantly updated content, and distribute it, in real time, to enterprises, Web portal developers, application developers and consumers for net cash consideration of $3.6 million. We sold our Communications Services business which provided Billing and Commerce Services, Connectivity and Interoperability Services, and Intelligent Database Services for net cash consideration of $230.0 million. We sold our International Clearing business which enabled financial settlement and call data settlement for wireless and wireline carriers. 41 Table of Contents Completed Divestitures in 2008 During 2008, we completed the divestiture of the following businesses, for aggregate net cash consideration of $102.4 million, and recorded an aggregate loss on sale of $424.8 million. The historical results of operations of our divested businesses have been reclassified as discontinued operations for all periods presented unless otherwise noted. We sold our EMEA Mobile Media (EMM) business, which offered mobile application services that included interactive messaging applications, content portal services, and messaging gateway services for net cash consideration of $7.8 million. We sold our Post pay business, which enabled advanced billing and customer care services to wireless telecommunications carriers for net cash consideration of $28.3 million. We sold our Communications Consulting business, which offered a full range of strategy and technology consulting, business planning, sourcing, and implementation services to help telecommunications operators and equipment manufacturers drive profitable new business and technology strategies for net cash consideration of $0.7 million. We sold our Digital Brand Management Services (DBMS) business, which offered a range of corporate domain name and brand protection services that help enterprises, legal professionals, information technology professionals and brand marketers monitor and protect and build digital brand equity for net cash consideration of $50.4 million. We sold our Content Delivery Network (CDN) business, which offered broadband content services that enable the delivery of high quality video and other rich media securely and efficiently at a very large scale for net cash consideration of $1.0 million. We retained an equity ownership in the CDN business and have accounted for our investment in the CDN business as an equity method investment with a carrying value of zero. As a result of our continuing involvement in the CDN business, the historical results of operations of the CDN business have not been classified as discontinued operations. The historical results of operations of CDN are included in our Other Services segment. We sold our Self Care and Analytics (SC&A) business, which provided on line analysis applications for mobile communications customers and on line customer self service with a single view of billing across multiple systems for net cash consideration of $14.2 million. Completed Divestiture in 2007 We sold our Retail Data Solutions (RDS) business, which offered point of sale data information for retail, pharmaceutical and consumer goods customers for net cash consideration of $10.2 million. The sale price included $6.4 million in cash and $3.8 million in preferred stock of the acquiring company. The Company recorded the preferred stock as a long term investment and has accounted for its investment in the RDS business on a cost method basis. The historical results of operations of the RDS business have not been classified as discontinued operations because they were not significant. The historical results of operations of RDS are included in our Other Services segment. Sale of other businesses In addition to the divestiture of the non core businesses as part of the divestiture strategy, we also sold the following businesses: In 2007, we sold 51% of our ownership interest in our wholly owned Jamba subsidiary to Fox Entertainment (Fox), a subsidiary of News Corporation for net cash consideration of $192.4 million, and simultaneously entered into two joint venture agreements (Jamba joint ventures) with Fox. In 2008, we sold the remaining 49% ownership interest in the Jamba joint ventures to Fox for net cash consideration of $199.4 million. The historical results of operations of the Jamba subsidiary and the Jamba joint ventures are classified as continuing operations for all periods presented. 42 Table of Contents In 2007, we sold our Jamba Service GmbH subsidiary (Jamba Service) which marketed insurance and extended service warranties to consumers for mobile electronic equipment and products for net cash consideration of $12.8 million. The historical results of operations of Jamba Service are classified as discontinued operations for all periods presented. Subsequent Events In January 2010, we received a distribution of $8.4 million from the Primary Fund. As of February 26, 2010, we have an aggregate of $12.5 million held by the Primary Fund and the International Fund. In February 2010, we repurchased approximately 1.9 million shares of our common stock at an average stock price of $23.77 per share for an aggregate cost of $44.3 million under the 2008 Share Buyback Program. As a result, approximately $652.9 million is available for repurchase of our common stock under our 2008 Share Buyback Program. Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Management Estimates The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates those estimates. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and on various assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily available from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe the following critical accounting policies have the most significant impact on our judgment and estimates used in preparing our consolidated financial statements: Revenue recognition We recognize revenues in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Revenue recognition requirements are complex rules which require us to make judgments and estimates related to both the timing and amount of revenue recognition. Our assumptions and judgments regarding products and services could differ from actual events. As our Naming Services and Authentication Services are provided over time, the associated revenues from these services are generally recognized over the contractual term. However, certain revenues are recognized over an estimated relationship period determined based on an analysis of historical performance and customer usage. While the majority of our revenue transactions contain standard business terms and conditions, there are certain transactions that contain non standard business terms and conditions. In addition, we may enter into certain revenue transactions that involve multiple element arrangements (arrangements with more than one deliverable). As a result, significant contract interpretation is sometimes required to determine the appropriate accounting for these transactions including: (1) whether an arrangement exists; (2) how the arrangement consideration should be allocated among potential multiple elements; (3) when to recognize revenues on the deliverables; and (4) whether all elements of the arrangement have been delivered. In addition, our revenue recognition policy requires an assessment as to whether collection is reasonably assured, which inherently requires us to evaluate the creditworthiness of our customers. Changes in judgments on these assumptions and estimates could materially impact the timing or amount of revenue recognition. 43 Table of Contents Valuation of goodwill and other long lived assets Goodwill represents the excess of costs over fair value of net assets of businesses acquired. Fair value determination of acquired net assets, especially intangible assets, requires us to make significant estimates, assumptions and judgment. These estimates are based upon a number of factors, including historical experience, market conditions and information obtained from the management of the acquired company. Critical estimates in valuing certain of the intangible assets include, but are not limited to, historical and projected customer retention rates, anticipated growth in revenue from the acquired customer and product base and the expected use of the acquired assets. These factors are also considered in determining the useful life of the acquired intangible assets. Goodwill and other intangible assets acquired in a business combination that are determined to have an indefinite useful life are not amortized, but instead tested for impairment at least annually or between annual tests in the presence of impairment indicators such as: (a) a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate; (b) an adverse action or assessment by a regulator; (c) unanticipated competition; (d) loss of key personnel; (e) a more likely than not expectation of sale or disposal of a reporting unit or a significant portion thereof; (f) testing for recoverability of a significant asset group within a reporting unit; or (g) recognition of a goodwill impairment loss in the financial statements of a subsidiary that is a component of a reporting unit. Judgment is required in determining the existence of these factors and their effect on any impairment determination. The fair value of our reporting units is determined considering the income, the market or the transaction valuation approaches or a combination thereof. Under the income approach, the fair value of the reporting unit is based on the present value of estimated future cash flows that the reporting unit is expected to generate over its remaining life. Under the market approach, the value of the reporting unit is based on an analysis that compares the value of the reporting unit to values of publicly traded companies in similar lines of business. The transaction approach is a valuation technique that estimates the fair value of the reporting unit based on market prices on actual transactions and asking prices for businesses currently available for sale. The process of evaluating the potential impairment of goodwill is highly subjective and requires significant judgment at many points during the analysis. In estimating the fair value of our reporting units for the purposes of our annual or interim analyses, we make estimates and judgments about the future cash flows, operating trends, discount rates, control premiums, and other variables of these businesses. Although our cash flow forecasts are based on assumptions that are consistent with the plans and estimates we use to manage the underlying businesses, there is significant judgment in determining the cash flows attributable to these businesses over their estimated remaining useful lives. We also consider our market capitalization on the date we perform the analysis. Given the significant excess of fair value over our reporting units carrying value, the goodwill valuations were not overly sensitive to valuation methodologies or assumptions. Further, a hypothetical change of 10% in the fair value of our reporting units would not have resulted in goodwill impairments as of December 31, 2009. Our other long lived assets consist primarily of property and equipment and purchased intangible assets. We review other long lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that we will not be able to recover the assets carrying amount. Such events or circumstances include, but are not limited to, a significant decrease in the fair value of the underlying business or asset, a significant decrease in the benefits realized from the acquired business, difficulty and delays in integrating the business or a significant change in the operations of the acquired business or use of an asset. Recoverability of other long lived assets is measured by comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to estimated undiscounted cash flows of the group containing the asset. If the carrying amount of an asset group exceeds its estimated future cash flows, an impairment charge is recognized by the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair value. 44 Table of Contents Valuation of assets held for sale Disposal groups classified as held for sale were measured at the lower of their carrying amount or fair value less cost to sell and were not depreciated or amortized. Classification of our disposal groups as held for sale occurred when sufficient authority to sell the disposal group had been obtained, the disposal group was available for immediate sale, an active program to sell the disposal group had been initiated and its sale was probable within one year. If at any time these criteria were no longer met, the disposal group would have been reclassified as held and used. We evaluated the held for sale classification and the fair value of such disposal groups at each reporting period. The fair value of assets held for sale was determined considering active bids from potential buyers and also using the income, the market or the transaction valuation approaches or a combination thereof. The fair value analysis using the income, market and transaction approach for assets held for sale was similar to the fair value analysis of reporting units for goodwill impairment described above and required significant judgment. Restructuring charges We record restructuring charges related to excess facilities and one time severance costs at fair value only when the liability is incurred. Severance costs associated with our standard restructuring plans are recorded once the costs are determined to be both probable and estimable. Excess facilities restructuring charges take into account the fair value of the future lease obligations of the abandoned space, including the potential for sublease income. Estimating the amount of sublease income requires management to make estimates for the space that will be rented, the rate per square foot that might be received and the vacancy period of each property. These estimates could differ materially from actual amounts due to changes in the real estate markets in which the properties are located, such as the supply of office space and prevailing lease rates. Changing market conditions by location and considerable work with third party leasing companies require us to periodically review each lease and change our estimates on a prospective basis, as necessary. Fair Value of Financial Instruments Our 3.25% junior subordinated convertible debenture due 2037 (the Convertible Debentures) have contingent interest payments that are required to be accounted for separately from the debt instrument and marked to market at the end of each reporting period. We utilize a valuation model based on simulations of stock prices, interest rates, credit ratings and bond prices to estimate the value of the derivative. The inputs to the model include risk adjusted interest rates, volatility and average yield curve observations and stock price. Several significant inputs to the model are not observable and require management judgment. Stock based compensation We use the Black Scholes option pricing model to determine the fair value of stock options and employee stock purchase plan shares which contain a service and or performance condition. The determination of the fair value of stock based awards on the date of grant using an option pricing model is affected by our stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of complex and subjective variables. These variables include our expected stock price volatility over the expected term of the awards, actual and projected employee stock option exercise behaviors, risk free interest rate and expected dividends. We estimate the expected term of options granted based on observed and expected time to post vesting exercise and or cancellations. Expected volatility is based on a combination of historical volatility of our common stock over a period commensurate with the expected life of the options and the mean historical implied volatility from traded options. We base the risk free interest rate that we use in the option pricing model on U.S. Treasury zero coupon issues with remaining terms similar to the expected term on the options. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future and therefore use an expected dividend yield of zero in the option pricing model. We are required to estimate forfeitures at the time of grant and revise those 45 Table of Contents estimates in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. We use historical data to estimate pre vesting option forfeitures and record stock based compensation expense only for those awards that are expected to vest. We use the Monte Carlo simulation option pricing model to determine the fair value of market based awards. The Monte Carlo simulation option pricing model takes into account the same input assumptions as the Black Scholes model; however, it also further incorporates into the fair value determination the possibility that the market condition may not be satisfied. If factors change and as a result we employ different assumptions for estimating stock based compensation expense in future periods, the stock based compensation expense we record for such future periods may differ significantly from what we have recorded in the current period and could materially affect our operating income (loss), net income (loss) and net income (loss) per share. Income taxes Accounting for income taxes requires significant judgments in the development of estimates used in income tax calculations. Such judgments include, but are not limited to, the likelihood we would realize the benefits of net operating loss carryforwards, domestic and or foreign tax credit carryforwards, the adequacy of valuation allowances, and the rates used to measure transactions with foreign subsidiaries. To the extent recovery of deferred tax assets is not likely, we record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. Our operations involve dealing with uncertainties and judgments in the application of complex tax regulations in multiple jurisdictions. The final taxes payable are dependent upon many factors, including negotiations with taxing authorities in various jurisdictions and resolution of disputes arising from U.S. federal, state, and international tax audits. We only recognize or continue to only recognize tax positions that meet a more likely than not threshold. We adjust these amounts in light of changing facts and circumstances; however, due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from our current estimate of the tax liabilities. 46 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table sets forth selected information regarding our results of operations as a percentage of revenues: Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Revenues 100 % 100 % 100 % Costs and expenses Cost of revenues 24 24 29 Sales and marketing 17 18 28 Research and development 8 9 11 General and administrative 18 21 29 Restructuring, impairments and other charges, net 2 20 28 Amortization of other intangible assets 1 1 2 Total costs and expenses 70 93 127 Operating income (loss) 30 7 (27 ) Other (loss) income, net (3 ) 5 11 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and loss from unconsolidated entities 27 12 (16 ) Income tax (expense) benefit (8 ) (4 ) Loss from unconsolidated entities, net of tax Income (loss) from continuing operations, net of tax 19 8 (16 ) Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax 5 (48 ) (2 ) Net income (loss) 24 (40 ) (18 ) Less: Net (income) loss attributable to noncontrolling interest in subsidiary 1 Net income (loss) attributable to VeriSign, Inc. and subsidiaries common stockholders 24 % (39 %) (18 %) Revenues by Segment We have two reportable segments: 3IS and Other Services. A comparison of revenues is presented below: 2009 %Change 2008 %Change 2007 (Dollars in thousands) 3IS: Naming Services $ 615,947 12 % $ 549,011 23 % $ 446,661 Authentication Services 410,064 3 % 398,728 14 % 348,455 Total 3IS 1,026,011 8 % 947,739 19 % 795,116 Other Services 4,608 (73 %) 17,009 (69 %) 55,393 Total revenues $ 1,030,619 7 % $ 964,748 13 % $ 850,509 47 Table of Contents The changes in revenues for 3IS and Other Services during the periods presented are described in the segment discussions that follow. Internet Infrastructure and Identity Services (3IS) Naming Services Revenues related to our Naming Services are derived from registrations for domain names in the .com, .net, .cc, .tv, .name and .jobs domain name registries. Revenues from .cc, .tv, ..name and .jobs are not significant. For domain names registered with the .com and .net registries, we receive a fee per annual registration that is fixed pursuant to our agreements with Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN). Individual customers contract directly with third party registrars or their resellers, and the third party registrars in turn register the .com, .net, .cc, .tv, .name and .jobs domain names with VeriSign. Changes in revenues are driven largely by increases in the number of new domain name registrations and the renewal rate for existing registrations, in each case as impacted by our promotional programs, as well as fee increases as permitted under our agreements with ICANN. In December 2009, we announced a fee increase for .com domain name registration fees of 7% from $6.86 to $7.34 effective July 1, 2010. We have the contractual right to increase the fees for .com domain name registrations up to 7% either in 2011 or in 2012 prior to the end of the current agreement with ICANN on November 30, 2012. In December 2009, we also announced a fee increase for .net domain name registration fees of 10% from $4.23 to $4.65 effective July 1, 2010. We have the contractual right to increase the fees for .net domain name registrations up to 10% in 2011 prior to the end of the current agreement with ICANN on June 30, 2011. We offer promotional marketing programs for our registrars based upon market conditions and the business environment in which the registrars operate. The following table compares domain names ending in .com and .net managed by our Naming Services business: December 31,2009 %Change December 31,2008 %Change December 31,2007 Active domain names ending in .com and .net 96.7 million 7 % 90.4 million 12 % 80.4 million During 2009, the growth in the number of domain names registered was primarily driven by continued Internet growth and new domain name promotional programs, though the growth rate is slower as compared to the previous year. The slower growth rate in domain name registrations is primarily due to the impact of the macro economic environment. However, we started seeing improved revenue growth rates towards the end of 2009 resulting from an increase in new domain name registrations and renewals. We expect to see continued improvement in revenue growth rates in 2010 as a result of further Internet growth, and adoption of the fee increase that will be in effect in July 2010. In addition, we expect to see international growth in both .com and .net domain name bases, especially in markets that we have targeted through our promotional programs. Our Naming Services revenues increased by $66.9 million in 2009, as compared to 2008, primarily due to a 7% year over year increase in the number of domain names ending in .com and .net and increases in our .com and .net registry fees in October 2008 of 7% (from $6.42 to $6.86) and 10% (from $3.85 to $4.23), respectively, as per our agreements with ICANN. Our Naming Services revenues increased by $102.4 million in 2008, as compared to 2007, primarily due to a 12% year over year increase in the number of domain names ending in .com and .net primarily due to continued Internet growth and adoption and increases in our .com and .net registry fees in October 2007 of 7% (from $6.00 to $6.42) and 10% (from $3.50 to $3.85), respectively, as per our agreements with ICANN. Revenues from VeriSign Internet Defense Services, comprised of iDefense and VIDN, were not significant for the periods presented. Authentication Services Our Authentication Services revenues are derived from our Business Authentication Services and User Authentication Services. 48 Table of Contents Business Authentication Services Revenues related to our Business Authentication Services are derived from licensing and service fees charged to our customers for the issuance of SSL certificates that authenticate their identity to the third parties with whom they carry out secured transactions. Revenues in Business Authentication Services are related to fees charged per certificate, which are based upon a number of factors, including: (i) the brand name under which the certificate is issued, which determines the level of encryption and rigor of authentication; (ii) the number of servers authenticated, and (iii) the duration of the certification. We issue SSL certificates for periods ranging from one to five years. The average certification issued by our Business Authentication Services business is approximately sixteen months. The following table compares the approximate installed base of SSL certificates in our Business Authentication Services and annualized average unit revenue (AUR) for the installed base of SSL certificates: December 31,2009 %Change December 31,2008 %Change December 31,2007 Installed base of SSL certificates 1,223,000 9 % 1,118,000 13 % 987,000 Annualized AUR (1) $ 228 (8 %) $ 248 (4 %) $ 258 (1) Annualized AUR represents Business Authentication Services revenues recorded for the period, excluding revenues from our affiliates and our majority owned subsidiary VeriSign Japan, over the installed base of SSL certificates as of the end of the corresponding period. The installed base includes all SSL certificates (including our affiliates and VeriSign Japan). During 2009, the growth in the number of installed base of SSL certificates was primarily driven by continued growth in e commerce, communication, and interactions for websites. Our installed base of SSL certificates from our GeoTrust&reg; and thawte&reg; brands increased at a higher rate than our higher priced VeriSign&reg; brand, and as a result, our annualized AUR decreased compared to prior periods. We expect that the number of our SSL certificates issued will continue to increase at a higher rate than the revenues recognized from our Business Authentication Services in 2010 as compared to 2009. As we have a market share leadership position at the high end of the SSL certificates market, our unit growth rate for the high end is limited by the overall segment growth. In the mid and low segments, we expect to see good growth opportunities for market share gains as these markets are growing faster than the high end market. We expect revenues to remain consistent in 2010 as compared to 2009. User Authentication Services Revenues related to our User Authentication Services are derived from one time credential sales to customers seeking network services and one time set up fees. We also charge an annual service fee based upon the number of individual users authorized by the customer to access its network and a customer support fee. We expect User Authentication Services revenues to continue to grow in 2010 primarily from growth in our PKI Services driven by increased sales to our existing customers and demand from new customers. Our Authentication Services revenues increased by $11.3 million in 2009, as compared to 2008, primarily due to a 9% year over year increase in the installed base of SSL certificates, although this increase was offset by a decline in annualized AUR; and increased demand for our managed PKI Services. Our Authentication Services revenues increased by $50.3 million in 2008, as compared to 2007, primarily due to a 13% year over year increase in the installed base of SSL certificates partially offset by a decline in annualized AUR; and increased demand for our User Authentication Services. Other Services Other Services segment revenues decreased $12.4 million in 2009, as compared to 2008, primarily due to the termination of revenues from a service agreement with our former Jamba joint ventures and the divestiture of the CDN business in 2008, and a decrease in revenues from the CPS business in 2009. 49 Table of Contents Other Services segment revenues decreased $38.4 million in 2008, as compared to 2007, primarily due to the divestiture of the RDS business and the sale of our majority ownership interest in the Jamba subsidiary in 2007, and the divestiture of the CDN business in 2008. Geographic Revenues We operate in the U.S.; Australia, Japan and other Asia Pacific countries (APAC); Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA); and certain other countries including Canada and Latin American countries. A comparison of our geographic revenues is presented below: 2009 %Change 2008 %Change 2007 (Dollars in thousands) U.S. $ 592,774 5 % $ 562,785 15 % $ 490,084 APAC 193,560 8 % 179,773 18 % 152,894 EMEA 168,540 8 % 156,694 4 % 150,146 Other 75,745 16 % 65,496 14 % 57,385 Total revenues $ 1,030,619 $ 964,748 $ 850,509 Revenues are generally attributed to the country of domicile and the respective regions in which our customers are located. Revenues from each of the respective regions increased in 2009, as compared to 2008, primarily driven by an increase in the number of domain names ending in .com and .net, and an increase in our .com and .net registry fees in October 2008. Revenues from the U.S. increased by $72.7 million in 2008, as compared to 2007, primarily due to the increase in the number of domain names ending in .com and .net, an increase in our .com and .net registry fees in late 2007 and an increase in demand for our Authentication Services. Revenues from APAC increased by $26.9 million primarily due to an increase in revenues from our Naming Services as well as increase in revenues from our Authentication Services. Revenues from EMEA increased by $6.5 million primarily due to an increase in revenues from our Authentication Services businesses. Revenues from Other regions increased by $8.1 million primarily due to an increase in revenues from both our Naming Services and Authentication Services businesses. Mature markets such as the U.S., where broadband and e commerce have seen strong market penetration, are expected to see decreasing incremental growth rates reflecting the maturing of the markets. We expect to see larger increases in certain international regions, resulting from greater broadband and Internet penetration and expanding e commerce as electronic means of payments are increasingly adopted. Cost of Revenues Cost of revenues consist primarily of costs related to providing digital certificate enrollment and issuance services, billing services, operational costs associated with the delivery of our services, registry fees, customer support and training, consulting and development services, labor costs to provide security, costs of facilities and computer equipment used in these activities and allocations of indirect costs such as corporate overhead. All allocations of indirect costs are included in continuing operations. A comparison of cost of revenues is presented below: 2009 %Change 2008 %Change 2007 (Dollars in thousands) Cost of revenues $ 245,896 6 % $ 231,406 (4 %) $ 240,119 50 Table of Contents 2009 compared to 2008: Cost of revenues increased primarily due to increases in depreciation expenses, registry fees paid to ICANN, and telecommunication expenses offset by a decrease in corporate overhead expenses. Depreciation expenses increased by $14.2 million, primarily due to additional capitalization of internally developed software to support both the Naming and Authentication Services businesses. Registry fees paid to ICANN increased by $5.0 million due to contractual obligations. Telecommunications expenses increased by $3.5 million, primarily due to data center upgrades to support our current global constellation sites for our Naming Services business. Corporate overhead expenses decreased by $7.0 million, primarily due to a reduction in headcount within the cost of revenues function during 2009 as compared to 2008. 2008 compared to 2007: Cost of revenues decreased primarily due to decreases in direct cost of revenues, salary and employee benefits expenses, contract and professional services expenses, and corporate overhead expenses, partially offset by increases in telecommunication and other facility related expenses. Direct cost of revenues decreased by $5.2 million, primarily due to the divestiture of our majority ownership interest in Jamba in 2007, partially offset by an increase in outside consulting costs for our Naming Services business. Salary and employee benefits expenses, which include stock based compensation benefits expenses, decreased by $3.6 million, primarily due to a decrease in headcount as a result of our 2008 restructuring plan. Contract and professional services expenses decreased by $5.4 million, primarily due to the divestiture of our majority ownership interest in Jamba in 2007. Corporate overhead expenses decreased by $6.4 million, primarily due to a reduction in general corporate overhead expenses. Telecommunication and other facility related expenses increased by $8.1 million primarily due to upgrades to support our current global constellation sites for our .com and .net registries and our Delaware data center that was placed into service in 2008. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of salaries, sales commissions, sales operations and other personnel related expenses, travel and related expenses, trade shows, costs of lead generation, costs of computer and communications equipment and support services, facilities costs, consulting fees, costs of marketing programs, such as the Internet, television, radio, print and direct mail advertising costs and allocations of indirect costs such as corporate overhead. All allocations of indirect costs are included in continuing operations. A comparison of sales and marketing expenses is presented below: 2009 %Change 2008 %Change 2007 (Dollars in thousands) Sales and marketing $ 177,029 3 % $ 172,206 (29 %) $ 242,127 2009 compared to 2008: Sales and marketing expenses increased primarily due to increases in contract and professional services expenses and advertising and marketing expenses, partially offset by decreases in travel expenses. Contract and professional services expenses increased by $3.9 million, primarily due to using third party professional services for international marketing initiatives for our Naming Services business. Advertising and marketing expenses increased by $3.0 million, primarily due to efforts to increase the market penetration of our Naming Services and our Authentication Services business. Travel expenses decreased by $3.2 million, primarily due to lower average headcount and managements cost savings initiatives. 2008 compared to 2007: Sales and marketing expenses decreased primarily due to decreases in salary and employee benefits expenses, travel expenses and corporate overhead expenses. Salary and employee benefits expenses, which include stock based compensation expenses, decreased by $55.9 million, primarily due to lower headcount resulting from the 2008 restructuring plan and the divestiture of our CDN business in 2008. Travel expenses decreased by $6.1 million, primarily due to cost savings initiatives relating to the 2008 restructuring plan. Corporate overhead expenses decreased by $6.0 million, primarily due to a reduction in general corporate overhead expenses in 2008. 51 Table of Contents We expect sales and marketing expenses to increase as a percentage of revenues in fiscal 2010, primarily due to an increase in advertising and marketing spending. Research and Development Research and development expenses consist primarily of costs related to research and development personnel, including salaries and other personnel related expenses, consulting fees and the costs of facilities, computer and communications equipment, support services used in service and technology development and allocations of indirect costs such as corporate overhead. All allocations of indirect costs are included in continuing operations. A comparison of research and development is presented below: 2009 %Change 2008 %Change 2007 (Dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 83,560 (6 %) $ 88,948 (6 %) $ 94,434 2009 compared to 2008: Research and development expenses decreased primarily due to decreases in depreciation expenses and contract and professional services expenses, partially offset by an increase in corporate overhead expenses. Depreciation expenses decreased by $6.0 million, primarily due to a reduction in capitalized assets depreciated to research and development expenses in 2009. Contract and professional services expenses decreased by $1.3 million, primarily due to a decrease in the services of outside contractors due to managements cost savings initiatives and the conversion of contractors to employees. Corporate overhead expenses increased by $2.7 million, primarily due to an increase in average research and development headcount to support our Naming and Authentication Services businesses. 2008 compared to 2007: Research and development expenses decreased primarily due to decreases in contract and professional services expenses and corporate overhead expenses, partially offset by an increase in depreciation expenses. Contract and professional services expenses decreased by $6.3 million, primarily due to decreased deployment of external consultants resulting from the 2008 restructuring plan initiatives. Corporate overhead expenses decreased by $4.0 million, primarily due to a reduction in general corporate overhead expenses in 2008. Depreciation expenses increased by $4.6 million, primarily due to additional capitalized assets placed into service in 2008. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries and other personnel related expenses for our executive, administrative, legal, finance, information technology and human resources personnel, facilities, computer and communications equipment, management information systems, support services, professional services fees, certain tax and license fees, bad debt expense and allocations of indirect costs such as corporate overhead. All allocations of indirect costs are included in continuing operations. A comparison of general and administrative expenses is presented below: 2009 %Change 2008 %Change 2007 (Dollars in thousands) General and administrative $ 181,992 (9 %) $ 201,016 (19 %) $ 248,037 2009 compared to 2008: General and administrative expenses decreased primarily due to decreases in salary and benefits expenses, and contract and professional services expenses; partially offset by an increase in legal expenses. Salary and benefits expenses, which include stock based compensation expenses, decreased by $16.5 million, primarily due to lower average headcount which resulted from recent restructuring activities. 52 Table of Contents Contract and professional services expenses decreased by $5.6 million, primarily due to a decrease in professional services costs incurred for accounting and auditing services related to our divestiture strategy which was substantially completed during 2009. Legal expenses increased by $5.9 million, primarily due to the reversal in 2008 of certain previously accrued estimated litigation settlement costs in excess of actual final outcome. 2008 compared to 2007: General and administrative expenses decreased primarily due to decreases in salary and employee benefits expenses, contract and professional services expenses, depreciation expenses and legal expenses, partially offset by an increase in corporate overhead expenses. Salary and employee benefits expenses, which includes stock based compensation expenses, decreased, by $27.4 million, primarily due to severance charges related to a former chief executive officer recorded in 2007, additional penalties recorded in the latter half of 2007 that resulted from late payments of federal and state payroll taxes, and a reduction in headcount relating to the 2008 restructuring plan. The decrease in salary and employee benefits expenses was partially offset by additional stock based compensation expenses related to the acceleration of vesting of stock based awards for a former chief executive officer in the second quarter of 2008. Contract and professional services expenses decreased by $8.8 million, primarily due to cost savings initiatives and reduction in external services as a result of our plan to divest or wind down our non core businesses. Depreciation expenses decreased by $3.9 million, primarily due to the sale of a portion of our Mountain View facility in 2008. Legal expenses decreased by $22.4 million, primarily due to lower litigation expenses and the reversal of certain previously accrued estimated litigation settlement costs in excess of actual final outcome, offset by an increase in legal consulting fees related to our plan to divest or wind down our non core businesses during 2008. The decrease is offset by an increase in corporate overhead expenses of $15.1 million, primarily due to proportionately higher headcount in the general and administrative function. We expect general and administrative expenses to decrease as a percentage of revenues in fiscal 2010, primarily due to reduction in shared services expenses resulting from the completion of planned divestitures of our non core businesses. Restructuring Charges The following table presents the nature of restructuring charges: Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (In thousands) Workforce reduction $ 13,067 $ 63,845 $ 20,497 Excess facilities 2,685 5,381 4,699 Other exit costs 1,210 4,244 Total consolidated restructuring charges $ 15,752 $ 70,436 $ 29,440 Amounts classified as continuing operations $ 7,330 $ 31,195 $ 20,242 Amounts classified as discontinued operations $ 8,422 $ 39,241 $ 9,198 As part of our divestiture strategy, we initiated a restructuring plan in the first quarter of 2008 (the 2008 Restructuring Plan) which included workforce reductions, abandonment of excess facilities and other exit costs. The restructuring charges in the table above are substantially related to the 2008 Restructuring Plan for 2009 and 2008. Through December 31, 2009, we recorded a total of $85.4 million in restructuring charges, inclusive of amounts for discontinued operations. 2007 Restructuring Plan: In January 2007, we initiated a restructuring plan (the 2007 Restructuring Plan) to execute a company wide reorganization replacing the previous business unit structure with a combined worldwide sales and services 53 Table of Contents team, and an integrated development and products organization. The restructuring plan included workforce reductions, abandonment of excess facilities, and other exit costs. The plan was substantially completed in 2008. Through December 31, 2009, VeriSign recorded a total of $30.5 million in restructuring charges, inclusive of amounts for discontinued operations, under its 2007 Restructuring Plan. We anticipate recording additional charges related to workforce reductions and excess facilities through 2010 but these are not expected to be significant. Impairments (Reversal) of Goodwill and Other Long lived Assets The following table presents the impairments of goodwill: Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (In thousands) Impairments of goodwill $ $ 123,412 $ 182,151 Amounts classified as continuing operations $ $ 77,619 $ 182,151 Amounts classified as discontinued operations $ $ 45,793 $ In 2008, we recorded an impairment charge of $77.6 million for goodwill related to our VeriSign Japan reporting unit in continuing operations. In 2008, we recorded an impairment charge of $45.8 million for goodwill related to our former Post pay reporting unit in discontinued operations. In 2007, we recorded an impairment charge of $182.2 million for goodwill related to our former Content Services reporting unit in continuing operations. The following table presents the impairments (reversal) of other long lived assets: Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (In thousands) Impairments of other intangible assests $ 9,684 $ $ 67,440 Impairments (reversal) of property and equipment and disposal group held for sale (798 ) 87,613 13,230 Total consolidated impairments of other long lived assets $ 8,886 $ 87,613 $ 80,670 Amounts classified as continuing operations $ 8,886 $ 87,605 $ 33,826 Amounts classified as discontinued operations $ $ 8 $ 46,844 In 2009, we recorded an impairment charge of $9.7 million related to our .name gTLD intangible asset and a reversal of impairment charges of $0.8 million related to property and equipment of our CPS business that was previously classified as a disposal group held for sale and subsequently reclassified as held and used in 2009. In 2008, in continuing operations, we recorded a loss of $79.1 million as a result of the sale of a portion of our Mountain View facilities and an impairment charge of $8.5 million related to our CPS business which was previously classified as a disposal group held for sale and subsequently reclassified as held and used in 2009. In 2007, in continuing operations, we recorded impairment charges of $25.8 million related to other intangible assets of the CDN and CPS businesses and $8.0 million related to abandonment of certain obsolete property and equipment. In 2007, in discontinued operations, we recorded an impairment charge of $41.6 million for intangible assets and $5.2 million for the impairment of property and equipment related to our former Content Service reporting unit. 54 Table of Contents Amortization of Other Intangible Assets A comparison of amortization of other intangible assets is presented below: Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (In thousands) Amortization of other intangible assets for continuing operations $ 12,199 $ 11,155 $ 21,091 Amortization of other intangible assets for discontinued operations 14,508 94,973 Total amortization of other intangible assets $ 12,199 $ 25,663 $ 116,064 2009 compared to 2008: Total amortization of other intangible assets increased primarily due to additional amortization related to the acquisition of intangible assets of $6.6 million and the reclassification of intangible assets related to iDefense of $4.1 million from assets held for sale to amortizable intangible assets in 2009, offset by intangible assets that were fully amortized in 2009 and 2008. Amortization expense also increased due to additional amortization related to our .name gTLD which was purchased in 2008 and recorded as an indefinite lived intangible asset at the time of purchase, and subsequently in 2009 was considered to be a finite lived intangible asset due to a strategic change in the planned use of the indefinite lived .name gTLD intangible asset. 2008 compared to 2007: Total amortization of other intangible assets decreased primarily due to a $67.4 million impairment charge to other intangible assets in 2007, the reclassification of certain other intangible assets to assets held for sale during 2008 and due to certain other intangible assets becoming fully amortized in 2007. We ceased to amortize our other intangible assets upon reclassification to assets held for sale. Other (Loss) Income, Net Other (loss) income, net, consists primarily of interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents, and investments, interest expense related to our borrowings, net gains or losses on the sale and impairment of investments, net gains or losses on the divestiture of certain businesses, realized and unrealized gains and losses on the contingent interest derivative on the Convertible Debentures, income from transition services agreements, and the net effect of foreign currency gains and losses. The net effect of foreign currency gains and losses is included in Other, net, in the table below. A comparison of other (loss) income, net, is presented below: Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (In thousands) Interest income $ 4,371 $ 16,375 $ 47,074 Interest expense (47,351 ) (44,391 ) (18,563 ) Net loss on sale and impairment of investments (136 ) (6,364 ) (1,788 ) Net gain on divestiture of businesses and joint ventures 908 80,538 71,216 Unrealized gain on joint venture call options 10,926 Unrealized gain (loss) on contingent interest derivative on Convertible Debentures 549 3,616 (15,301 ) Income from transition services agreements 4,944 3,641 Other, net 4,278 (4,606 ) 843 Total other (loss) income, net $ (32,437 ) $ 48,809 $ 94,407 2009 compared to 2008: Other loss, net, increased in 2009. Interest income decreased due to cash balances invested in lower interest rate securities in 2009. Interest expense increased as a result of a decrease in capitalized interest cost in 2009 as compared to 2008. In 2008, we recorded a charge of $8.2 million for an other than temporary impairment of funds held by the Primary Fund and the International Fund as a result of managements assessment for our investment portfolio with consideration to the economic market conditions at 55 Table of Contents the time. Net gain on divestiture of businesses decreased because in 2008, we recorded a $77.9 million gain upon divestiture of our remaining 49% ownership interest in the Jamba joint ventures. In 2009, we recorded $0.5 million in unrealized gain on the contingent interest derivative on our Convertible Debentures as compared to $3.6 million of realized and unrealized gains on the contingent interest derivative on our Convertible Debentures in 2008. We entered into certain transition services agreements with the buyers of certain divested businesses, the income received from such services were $4.9 million and $3.6 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. Other, net, recorded in 2009 includes the net effect of foreign currency gains or losses and cash receipt of $3.3 million from Certicom Corporation (Certicom) upon termination of the acquisition agreement entered into with Certicom. Other, net, recorded in 2008, primarily includes the net effect of foreign currency gains or losses. 2008 compared to 2007: Other income, net, decreased in 2008. Interest income decreased due to lower average invested balances primarily resulting from stock repurchase activity in 2008, as well as lower average interest rates. Interest expense increased primarily due to our Convertible Debentures issued in August 2007. In 2008, we recorded a gain of $77.9 million upon the divestiture of our remaining 49% ownership interest in the Jamba joint ventures. In 2008, we recorded a charge of $8.2 million for an other than temporary impairment of funds held by the Primary Fund and the International Fund. In 2008, we recorded $3.6 million in unrealized gain on the contingent interest derivative on our Convertible Debentures compared to $15.3 million of realized and unrealized losses on the contingent interest derivative on our Convertible Debentures in 2007. We entered into certain transition services agreements with the buyers of certain divested businesses, the income received from such services was $3.6 million in 2008. Other, net, recorded in 2008 and 2007, primarily includes the net effect of foreign currency gains or losses. Income Tax Expense For 2009, 2008 and 2007, we recorded income tax expense from continuing operations of $80.1 million or 28.5% of pretax income from continuing operations, income tax expense of $39.2 million or 34.9% of pretax income from continuing operations, and income tax benefit of $3.5 million or 2.5% of pretax loss from continuing operations, respectively. Our effective tax rate decreased in 2009, as compared to 2008, primarily due to benefits in 2009 attributable to increased profits in foreign tax jurisdictions with low statutory rates, the lapsing of statutes, the conclusion of a state tax audit, state tax effects of tax law changes, and expenses in 2008 related to the conclusion of an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) audit and impairments of non deductible goodwill. Our effective tax rate increased in 2008, as compared to 2007 primarily due to the expenses in 2008 attributable to impairments of non deductible goodwill and the agreement to the conclusions of the IRS examination for fiscal years 2004 and 2005. The increases in the 2008 effective tax rate were partially offset by the release in 2008 of valuation allowances and tax reserves related to the utilization of certain carryforward attributes and statute closures. As of December 31, 2009, we had deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences, tax losses, and tax credits of $308.3 million before the offset of certain deferred liabilities. With the exception of certain deferred tax assets related to impairments on investments and certain foreign net operating loss carryforwards, we believe it is more likely than not that forecasted income, including income that may be generated as a result of certain tax planning strategies, together with the tax effects of the deferred tax liabilities, will be sufficient to fully recover the remaining deferred tax assets. During 2009, we released a valuation allowance of $1.6 million related to the utilization of foreign net operating loss carryforwards and reduced the valuation allowance by $2.3 million upon the sale of a foreign subsidiary. During 2009, the State of California enacted changes in tax laws that are expected to have a beneficial impact on our effective tax rate beginning in 2011. As a result, we revalued our state deferred tax assets that are expected to reverse after the effective date of the change, and recognized an income tax benefit of $4.9 million in state taxes for 2009. 56 Table of Contents During 2009, we agreed with the California Franchise Tax Boards decisions of its audit for the years ended December 31, 2003 through December 31, 2005 and recorded an income tax benefit of $3.4 million in state taxes for 2009. We are subject to tax holidays in Switzerland and India. In Switzerland, the tax holidays provide lower rates of taxation on certain types of income and also require certain thresholds of investment and employment. In Switzerland, the tax holiday on certain income types expires in 2011 and the tax holiday on remaining income types expires in 2015. In India, we qualify for the Software Technology Park of India (STPI) tax program with respect to its research and development activities. This exemption expires on March 31, 2010. Notwithstanding qualification for this exemption, we are subject to minimum alternative tax rules in India which override the STPI regime and subject us to minimum taxes on qualifying income at a rate of 11.33%. Due to net operating loss carryforwards from prior years, the tax holidays have an immaterial impact on our earnings per share for 2009, 2008 and 2007. Net (income) loss attributable to noncontrolling interest, net of tax Net (income) loss attributable to noncontrolling interest, net of tax, represents the portion of net income belonging to noncontrolling interest related to our consolidated subsidiary, VeriSign Japan. The following table presents a comparison of net (income) loss attributable to noncontrolling interest in subsidiary, net of tax: Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (In thousands) Net (income) loss attributable to noncontrolling interest in subsidary, net of tax $ (3,686 ) $ 16,009 $ (3,840 ) 2009 compared to 2008: The net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest in subsidiary, net of tax, in 2008 is primarily due to a goodwill impairment charge related to our VeriSign Japan reporting unit of $19.0 million. In 2009, VeriSign Japans operating income remained relatively consistent. 2008 compared to 2007: The net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest in subsidiary, net of tax, in 2008, is primarily due to a goodwill impairment charge related to our VeriSign Japan reporting unit of $19.0 million. Income (Loss) from Discontinued operations, net of tax In 2009, we sold the following businesses: MDG Services, MMM Services, GSC, MSS, RTP Services, Communications Services and International Clearing. In 2009, we also wound down the operations of the Pre pay Services business. The results of operations of these businesses have been classified as discontinued operations for all periods presented. Further, in 2009, we decided to wind down the operations of the CPS business after termination of active negotiations with a potential buyer. Accordingly, the assets and liabilities related to the CPS business have been classified as held and used as of December 31, 2009, and the results of operations for the CPS business have been reclassified as continuing operations for all periods presented. In 2008, we sold the following businesses: EMM, Post pay, Communications Consulting, DBMS, CDN, SC&A and the remaining 49% ownership interest in the Jamba joint ventures. As of December 31, 2008, businesses classified as held for sale included the following: MDG Services, MMM Services, GSC, MSS, RTP Services, Communications Services, International Clearing and CPS. The results of operations of these businesses, except CDN and Jamba joint ventures, have been classified as discontinued operations for all periods presented. We retained an equity ownership in the CDN business. As a result of the continuing involvement in the CDN business, the historical results of operations of the CDN business have not been classified as discontinued operations. 57 Table of Contents In 2007, we sold the following businesses: RDS, Jamba Service and 51% ownership interest in our wholly owned Jamba subsidiary. The historical results of operations of the RDS business have not been classified as discontinued operations because they were not significant. The historical results of operations of the Jamba subsidiary have not been classified as discontinued operations because of our continued involvement in the Jamba joint ventures. The historical results of operations of Jamba Service have been classified as discontinued operations for all periods presented. The following table presents the revenues and the components of Income (Loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax: Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (In thousands) Revenues $ 225,026 $ 590,688 $ 651,332 Income (loss) from discontinued operations before income taxes $ 23,178 $ (20,063 ) $ 2,625 Gains (losses) on sale of discontinued operations and estimated losses on assets held for sale, before income taxes 35,229 (424,838 ) 1,357 Income tax expense (10,353 ) (14,701 ) (14,811 ) Total income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax $ 48,054 $ (459,602 ) $ (10,829 ) The differences between income tax expenses and the amounts resulting from application of the federal statutory rate of 35% to income (loss) from discontinued operations before income taxes are primarily attributable to non deductible goodwill transferred in the divestitures or impairments and the realization of deductible capital loss from divestitures. Net gains on disposal are recorded on the date the sale of the disposal group is consummated. Full or partial reversals of previously reported estimated losses on disposal are recorded upon changes in the fair values and or carrying values of the disposal groups. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 31, 2009 2008 (In thousands) Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,477,166 $ 789,068 At December 31, 2009, our principal source of liquidity was $1.48 billion of cash and cash equivalents. In 2009, we received $469.4 million of cash proceeds from divestiture of businesses, net of cash contributed. In November 2009, we purchased a previously leased Dulles, Virginia office and data center property for the Naming business, for cash consideration of $26.1 million. In December 2009, we sold an office building in Savannah, Georgia for cash consideration of $6.1 million. In 2009, we repurchased approximately 11.3 million shares of our common stock at an average stock price of $22.31 for an aggregate cost of $252.8 million under the 2008 Share Buyback Program. As of December 31, 2009, $697.2 million remained available for further repurchases under the 2008 Share Buyback Program. In 2009, we received distributions aggregating to $113.2 million and $16.3 million from the International Fund and the Primary Fund, respectively. 58 Table of Contents In 2007, we issued $1.25 billion principal amount of 3.25% convertible debentures due 2037. We are required to pay cash interest semiannually on February 15 and August 15 of each year until maturity. In 2009, we paid $40.6 million for interest on the Convertible Debentures. In 2006, we entered into a $500.0 million senior unsecured revolving credit facility (the Facility) with a syndicate of banks and other financial institutions under which VeriSign, or certain designated subsidiaries may be borrowers. The Facility is available for cash borrowings up to $500.0 million and for the issuance of letters of credit up to a maximum limit of $50.0 million. In 2009, there were no borrowings under the Facility. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had utilized $1.7 million for outstanding letters of credit under the Facility. In summary, our cash flows were as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (In thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 395,191 $ 484,034 $ 473,537 Net cash provided by investing activities 484,455 76,764 209,009 Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities (197,994 ) (1,164,027 ) 188,671 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 6,446 15,575 3,721 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 688,098 $ (587,654 ) $ 874,938 Net cash provided by operating activities Our largest source of operating cash flows is cash collections from our customers. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities are for personnel related expenditures, and other general operating expenses, as well as payments related to taxes and facilities. 2009 compared to 2008: Cash provided by operating activities decreased primarily due to a decrease in cash received from customers resulting from a decrease in consolidated revenues, including decreased revenues from discontinued operations, coupled with the timing of receipts from customers; and a decrease in interest income that resulted from investments in lower interest rate securities and an increase in income tax payment resulting from higher pre tax income in 2009. The decrease in cash receipts was partially offset by a decrease in cash payments to suppliers and employees primarily resulting from lower average headcount in 2009. 2008 compared to 2007: Cash provided by operating activities increased primarily due to an increase in cash received from customers resulting from an increase in consolidated revenues, inclusive of revenues from discontinued operations, coupled with an increase in cash collections from customers due to an improved collection process implemented in 2008. The increase in cash receipts was partially offset by an increase in payments for interest on our Convertible Debentures, and a decrease in interest income received due to lower average invested cash balances and lower interest rates in 2008. Net cash provided by investing activities The changes in cash flows from investing activities primarily relate to divestiture of businesses, timing of purchases, maturities and sales of investments, purchases of property and equipment, and investments in unconsolidated entities. 2009 compared to 2008: Net cash provided by investing activities increased primarily due to an increase in proceeds received upon divestiture of businesses, and an increase in distributions received from the Primary Fund and the International Fund in 2009. The increase is partially offset by proceeds from the sale of property and equipment in our Mountain View, California location in 2008 and proceeds received upon the termination of the trust established for our directors and officers liability self insurance coverage in 2008. 59 Table of Contents 2008 compared to 2007: Net cash provided by investing activities decreased primarily due to the reclassification of certain cash and cash equivalents to Prepaid expenses and other current assets. In 2008, because of liquidity concerns, the Company reclassified its actively traded money market investments in the Primary Fund and the International Fund from Cash and cash equivalents to Prepaid expenses and other current assets. The decrease is also due to lower cash proceeds from maturities and sales of investments and cash spent on our acquisition of the Global Name Registry business. The decrease was partially offset by an increase in proceeds received upon divestiture of certain businesses, proceeds received from the sale of certain property and equipment related to a portion of our Mountain View facility and the termination of the trust established for our directors and officers liability self insurance coverage and lower cash spent on purchases of property and equipment. Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities The changes in cash flows from financing activities primarily relate to borrowings and payments under debt obligations, as well as stock repurchases and stock option exercise activities. 2009 compared to 2008: Net cash used in financing activities decreased primarily due to a decrease in stock repurchases offset by a decrease in proceeds from issuance of common stock from stock option exercises and employee stock purchase plan and a decrease in excess tax benefits on stock based compensation. 2008 compared to 2007: Net cash used in financing activities increased primarily due to stock repurchases in 2008 without corresponding proceeds from financing activities, as compared to 2007 when stock repurchases were primarily funded by proceeds received from the issuance of the Convertible Debentures. The remaining increase in cash used in financing activities was primarily due to an increase in stock repurchases in 2008 and a decrease in proceeds received from issuance of common stock from stock option exercises and employee stock purchase plan. We believe existing cash and cash equivalents, together with funds generated from operations and the availability of financing, if necessary, from our Facility should be sufficient to meet our working capital, capital expenditure requirements and to service our debt for the next 12 months. Our philosophy regarding the maintenance of a balance sheet with a large component of cash, cash equivalents and short term investments reflects our views on potential future capital requirements relating to expansion of our businesses, related acquisitions, and share repurchases. We regularly assess our cash management approach and activities in view of our current and potential future needs. Impact of Inflation We believe that inflation has not had a significant impact on our operations during 2009, 2008 and 2007. Property and Equipment Expenditures Our planned property and equipment expenditures for 2010 are anticipated to be in the range of $65.0 million to $85.0 million and will primarily be focused on productivity, cost improvement and market development initiatives for our 3IS segment. 60 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our significant non cancelable contractual obligations at December 31, 2009, and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods: Payments due by period Total 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Thereafter Contractual obligations (In thousands) Operating lease obligations $ 69,489 $ 23,451 $ 21,502 $ 15,175 $ 9,361 Purchase obligations 32,718 17,421 15,297 ICANN agreement 52,500 18,000 34,500 .tv agreement 14,000 2,000 4,000 4,000 4,000 Convertible Debentures principal and interest 2,387,500 40,625 81,250 81,250 2,184,375 Total $ 2,556,207 $ 101,497 $ 156,549 $ 100,425 $ 2,197,736 As of December 31, 2009, we had commitments under non cancelable operating leases for our facilities for various terms through 2017. We enter into certain purchase obligations with various vendors. Our significant purchase obligations primarily consist of firm commitments with telecommunication carriers and other service providers. We do not have any significant purchase obligations beyond 2013. We have entered into agreements with the buyers of certain divested businesses, for which we continue to be responsible for certain contingent liabilities and transition services after the divestitures. We might incur costs and expenses associated with the resolution of these contingent liabilities. In addition, the transition services may be required for periods longer than initially anticipated by management and may be costlier to complete when compared to the payments that will be received from the buyers for these transition services. In 2007, we issued $1.25 billion principal amount of Convertible Debentures. We will pay cash interest semiannually to the holders of the Convertible Debentures on February 15 and August 15 of each year until maturity. We paid interest of $40.6 million on the convertible debentures in both 2009 and 2008. In 2006, we entered into a contractual agreement with ICANN to be the sole registry operator for domain names in the .com top level domain through November 30, 2012. Under the agreement, we paid ICANN fixed registry level fees of $15.0 million in 2009 and $10.0 million in 2008. Beginning in 2009, the agreement provides for contingent payments upon meeting certain criteria based on growth in the number of annual domain name registrations. We have met the criteria, and as a result, our contractual payments will increase to the amounts as listed in the table above for the respective future periods. In 2001, we entered into an amended contractual agreement with the Government of Tuvalu to be the sole registry operator for .tv domain names through December 31, 2016. Pursuant to the terms of this agreement, in 2009 and in 2008, we paid the Tuvalu government a total of $2.0 million annually in registry fees. We provide for uncertain tax positions and adjust our unrecognized tax benefits accordingly. Due to the inherent uncertainty with respect to the timing of future cash outflows associated with our unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2009, we are unable to reliably estimate the timing of cash settlement with the respective taxing authorities. Therefore, $29.0 million of liabilities have been excluded from the contractual obligations table above. We enter into indemnification agreements with many of our customers and certain other business partners in the ordinary course of business. 61 Table of Contents Off Balance Sheet Arrangements It is not our business practice to enter into off balance sheet arrangements. As of December 31, 2009, we did not have any significant off balance sheet arrangements. See Note 15, Commitments and Contingencies, Off Balance Sheet Arrangements, of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Form 10 K for further information regarding off balance sheet arrangements. Stock Options and Restricted Stock Units Grants of stock options and or restricted stock units are key components of the compensation packages we provide to attract and retain certain of our talented employees and align their interests with the interests of existing stockholders. We recognize that options and restricted stock units dilute existing stockholders and have sought to control the number of options and restricted stock units granted while providing competitive compensation packages. Consistent with these dual goals, our cumulative potential dilution since 2007 has been a weighted average annualized rate of 0.7% per year, calculated as the average annualized new options and restricted stock units granted, net of options and restricted stock units forfeited by employees during the calculation period (for example, upon leaving the company), divided by the weighted average outstanding shares during the calculation period. At December 31, 2009, the maximum potential dilution from all outstanding options and restricted stock units, regardless of when granted and regardless of whether vested or unvested and including options and restricted stock units where the strike price is higher than the current market price, was 5.5%. This maximum potential dilution will only result if all outstanding options vest and are exercised and all restricted stock units vest and are settled. At December 31, 2009, 62% of our outstanding options had exercise prices in excess of the current market price. Consistent with our historical practices, we do not expect that dilution from future grants of stock options and restricted stock units before the effect of our stock repurchase program will exceed 2.0% per year for our ongoing business. In recent years, our stock repurchase program has more than offset the dilutive effect of our stock option and restricted stock unit programs; however, we may reduce the level of our stock repurchases in the future as we may use our available cash for other purposes. Options and restricted stock units activity from 2007 through 2009 is summarized as follows (shares in millions): Options and restricted stock units outstanding at December 31, 2006 37.7 Options and restricted stock units granted from 2007 through 2009 14.7 Options exercised and restricted stock units settled from 2007 through 2009 (23.6 ) Forfeitures, cancellations and expiration from 2007 through 2009 (18.8 ) Options and restricted stock units outstanding at December 31, 2009 10.0 Average annualized options and restricted stock units granted, net of forfeitures (1.4 ) Average annualized stock repurchases 29.7 Shares outstanding at December 31, 2009 183.3 Basic weighted average shares outstanding from 2007 through 2009 208.9 Options and restricted stock units outstanding as a percent of shares outstanding at December 31, 2009 5.5 % In the money options and restricted stock units outstanding (based on our December 31, 2009 price) as a percent of shares outstanding at December 31, 2009 3.1 % Weighted average annualized options and restricted stock units granted, net of forfeitures and before stock repurchases, as a percent of weighted average shares outstanding from 2007 through 2009 (0.7 %) Weighted average annualized Options and restricted stock units granted, net of forfeitures and after stock repurchases, as a percent of weighted average shares outstanding from 2007 through 2009 (14.9 %) 62 Table of Contents Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1, Basis of Presentation, Recent Accounting Pronouncements, of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Form 10 K. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK We are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and market risks. We have not entered into any market risk sensitive instruments for trading purposes. Interest rate sensitivity We invest our cash primarily in money market funds. In general, money market funds are not considered to be subject to interest rate risk because the interest paid on such funds fluctuates with the prevailing interest rate. As of December 31, 2009, our cash and cash equivalents consisted primarily of money market funds. Foreign exchange risk management We conduct business throughout the world and transact in multiple foreign currencies. As we continue to expand our international operations we are increasingly exposed to currency exchange rate risks. Our foreign currency risk management program is designed to mitigate foreign exchange risks associated with the monetary and non monetary assets and liabilities of our operations that are denominated in non functional currencies. The primary objective of this program is to minimize the gains and losses to income resulting from fluctuations in exchange rates. We may choose not to hedge certain foreign exchange exposures due to immateriality, prohibitive economic cost of hedging particular exposures, and limited availability of appropriate hedging instruments. We do not enter into foreign currency transactions for trading or speculative purposes, nor do we hedge foreign currency exposures in a manner that entirely offsets the effects of changes in exchange rates. The program may entail the use of forward or option contracts and in each case these contracts are limited to a duration of less than 12 months. As of December 31, 2009, our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations was not significant. At December 31, 2009, we held forward contracts in notional amounts totaling $79.2 million to mitigate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations associated with certain foreign currencies. All forward contracts are recorded at fair market value. A hypothetical uniform 10% strengthening or weakening in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the foreign currency derivatives outstanding would result in a decrease/increase in income of approximately $7.4 million. However, this would be largely offset by the remeasurement of our foreign currency denominated monetary and non monetary assets and liabilities resulting in an insignificant net impact to income. A hypothetical uniform 10% strengthening or weakening in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the foreign currencies in which our revenues and expenses are denominated would not result in a significant impact to our financial statements. There are inherent limitations in the sensitivity analysis presented, due primarily to the assumption that foreign exchange rate movements are linear and instantaneous. As a result, the analysis is unable to reflect the potential effects of more complex market changes that could arise, which may positively or negatively affect income. 63 Table of Contents Market risk management The fair market value of the Convertible Debentures issued by us and due August 2037, is subject to interest rate risk and market risk due to the convertible feature of the debentures. Generally, the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. The fair market value of the Convertible Debentures will also increase as the market price of our stock increases and decrease as the market price of our common stock falls. The interest and market value changes affect the fair market value of the Convertible Debentures but do not impact our financial position, cash flows or results of operations. As of December 31, 2009, the fair value of the Convertible Debentures was approximately $1.1 billion, based on quoted market prices. The fair market value of the contingent interest derivative on Convertible Debentures is also subject to interest rate risk and market risk. Generally, the fair market value of the contingent interest derivative will change due to changes in interest rates as well as due to changes in the fair market value of the Convertible Debentures. 64 Table of Contents 
 
