ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS This Report on Form 10 K contains forward looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). These forward looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, including, among other things, statements regarding our anticipated costs and expenses and revenue mix. Forward looking statements include, among others, those statements including the words expects, anticipates, intends, believes and similar language. Our actual results may differ significantly from those projected in the forward looking statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10 K. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Form 10 K. We undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to the forward looking statements or reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document. Overview We are a provider of Internet infrastructure services. By leveraging our global infrastructure, we provide network confidence and availability for mission critical Internet services, such as domain name registry services and infrastructure assurance services. Our service capabilities enable domain name registration through our registrar partners and provide network availability for registrars and Internet users alike. As a result of the sale of the Authentication Services business, included in the former Internet, Infrastructure and Identity Services segment, ceasing operations of the CPS business and the divestiture of legacy products and services, comprising the former Other Services segment, our only reportable segment is now Naming Services, which consists of Registry Services and NIA Services. Registry Services operates the authoritative directory of all .com, .net, .cc, .tv, and .name domain names and the back end systems for all .jobs and .edu domain names. As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately 105.2 million domain names registered under the .com and .net registries, our principal registries. The number of domain names registered is largely driven by Internet usage and broadband penetration rates, as well as advertising and marketing activities carried out by us and third party registrars. Although growth in absolute number of registrations remains greatest in mature markets such as the U.S., growth on an annual percentage basis is expected to be greatest in markets outside of the U.S. over the long term. NIA Services provides infrastructure assurance to organizations and is comprised of Verisign iDefense Security Intelligence Services, Managed Domain Name System Services, and Distributed Denial of Service mitigation. Revenues from NIA Services are not significant. 2010 Business Highlights and Trends We recorded revenues of $680.6 million, an increase of 10%, as compared to 2009. The increase was primarily due to a 9% year over year increase in active domain names ending in .com and .net and fee increases in our .com and .net registry fees in October 2008 and July 2010. We recorded operating income of $232.3 million, an increase of 45% as compared to 2009, primarily due to an increase in revenues. In December 2010, we declared and paid a special dividend of $3.00 per share of our common stock totaling $518.2 million. As a result of the dividend, we also paid $109.1 million in contingent interest to holders of our Convertible Debentures. 36 Table of Contents In November 2010, we ceased the operations of our CPS business as well as completed our non core business divestiture program commenced in late 2007. On August 9, 2010, we sold our Authentication Services business to Symantec for cash consideration of approximately $1.14 billion, net of cash held by transferred subsidiaries of $127.5 million and transaction costs of $10.8 million. We recorded a gain on sale of $726.2 million, net of tax of $254.3 million. On July 27, 2010, the Board authorized the repurchase of up to approximately $1.1 billion of our common stock, in addition to the $393.6 million of our common stock remaining available for repurchase under the previous 2008 Share Buyback Program, for a total repurchase of up to $1.5 billion of our common stock (collectively, the 2010 Share Buyback Program). We repurchased 15.7 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate cost of $437.7 million in 2010. In 2010, we received $25.2 million from The Reserve Primary Fund and The Reserve International Liquidity Fund, Ltd (collectively Funds held by The Reserve). We realized a $4.3 million gain due to distributions received in excess of book value. In 2010, we purchased marketable securities of $787.7 million and sold marketable securities of $284.6 million. We generated cash flows from operating activities of $215.2 million, a decrease of 46% as compared to 2009. The decrease was primarily due to the payment of contingent interest related to the Convertible Debentures and higher income taxes payable, primarily upon the gain resulting from the sale of the Authentication Services business, before consideration of carried forward excess tax benefits from exercises of stock options and other employee stock purchases. Divestiture Transactions During the fourth quarter of 2007, we announced a change to our business strategy to allow management to focus its attention on our core competencies and to make additional resources available to invest in our core businesses. The strategy called for the divestiture or winding down of our non core businesses. The divestiture strategy is now complete with the wind down of our CPS business. The following presents a summary of our divested and wound down businesses during the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. Current and historical results of operations of the divested and wound down businesses have been classified as discontinued operations, unless otherwise noted. Completed in 2010 On August 9, 2010, we sold our Authentication Services business, including outstanding shares of capital stock of VeriSign Japan and trademarks and certain intellectual property used in the Authentication Services business (including our checkmark logo and the Geotrust and thawte brand names), to Symantec for cash consideration of approximately $1.14 billion, net of cash held by transferred subsidiaries of $127.5 million and transaction costs of $10.8 million. Also included with the sale of the Authentication Services business were real and personal property owned by us at our Mountain View facility and other locations. We recorded a gain on sale of $726.2 million, net of tax of $254.3 million. In November 2010, we ceased the operations of our CPS business. 37 Table of Contents Completed in 2009 During 2009, we completed the divestiture and ceased the operations of the following businesses, for aggregate net cash consideration of $465.6 million. For these divestitures we recorded an aggregate net gain on sale of $39.4 million in 2009 and aggregate estimated losses on assets held for sale of $403.5 million in 2008. We sold our MDG Services business which offered solutions to manage the complex operator interfaces, relationships, distribution, reporting and customer service for the delivery of premium mobile content to customers for net cash consideration of $19.4 million. We ceased the operations of our Pre pay Services business which licensed and managed solutions for prepay billing customers to deliver rating and billing services. We sold our MMM Services business which consisted of the InterCarrier Messaging, PictureMail, Premium Messaging Gateway, and Mobile Enterprise Service offerings for net cash consideration of $171.8 million. We sold our GSC business which helped companies understand corporate security requirements, comply with all applicable regulations, identify security vulnerabilities, reduce risk, and meet the security compliance requirements applicable to the particular business and industry for net cash consideration of $4.9 million. We sold our MSS business which enabled enterprises to effectively monitor and manage their network security infrastructure 24 hours per day, every day of the year, while reducing the associated time, expense, and personnel commitments by relying on the MSS business security platform and experienced security staff for net cash consideration of $40.0 million. We sold our RTP Services business which allowed organizations to obtain access to and organize large amounts of constantly updated content, and distribute it, in real time, to enterprises, Web portal developers, application developers and consumers for net cash consideration of $1.8 million. We sold our Communications Services business which provided Billing and Commerce Services, Connectivity and Interoperability Services, and Intelligent Database Services for net cash consideration of $227.6 million. We sold our International Clearing business which enabled financial settlement and call data settlement for wireless and wireline carriers for net cash consideration of $0.1 million. Completed in 2008 During 2008, we completed the divestiture of the following businesses, for aggregate net cash consideration of $301.8 million. For these divestitures we recorded an aggregate gain on sale of $80.5 million in continuing operations and an aggregate net loss on sale of $21.8 million in discontinued operations in 2008. We sold our EMM business, which offered mobile application services that included interactive messaging applications, content portal services, and messaging gateway services for net cash consideration of $7.8 million. We sold our Post pay business, which enabled advanced billing and customer care services to wireless telecommunications carriers for net cash consideration of $28.3 million. We sold our Communications Consulting business, which offered a full range of strategy and technology consulting, business planning, sourcing, and implementation services to help telecommunications operators and equipment manufacturers drive profitable new business and technology strategies for net cash consideration of $0.7 million. We sold our DBMS business, which offered a range of corporate domain name and brand protection services that help enterprises, legal professionals, information technology professionals and brand marketers monitor, protect and build digital brand equity for net cash consideration of $50.4 million. 38 Table of Contents We sold our CDN business, which offered broadband content services that enable the delivery of high quality video and other rich media securely and efficiently at a very large scale for net cash consideration of $1.0 million. We retained an equity ownership in the CDN business and have accounted for our investment in the CDN business as an equity method investment with a carrying value of zero. As a result of our continuing involvement in the CDN business, the historical results of operations of the CDN business have not been classified as discontinued operations. The historical results of operations of CDN are identified as in continuing operations. We sold our SC&A business, which provided on line analysis applications for mobile communications customers and on line customer self service with a single view of billing across multiple systems for net cash consideration of $14.2 million. We sold the remaining 49% ownership interest in the Jamba joint ventures for net cash consideration of $199.4 million. The historical results of operations of the Jamba joint ventures are classified as continuing operations. Subsequent Events Between February 1, 2011 and February 23, 2011, we repurchased approximately 0.6 million shares of our common stock at an average stock price of $34.87 per share for an aggregate cost of $22.4 million under the 2010 Share Buyback Program. As a result, approximately $1.3 billion is available for repurchase of our common stock under the 2010 Share Buyback Program. Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Management Estimates The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates those estimates. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and on various assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily available from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe the following critical accounting policies have the most significant impact on our judgment and estimates used in preparing our consolidated financial statements: Revenue recognition We generate revenues by providing services over a period of time. Fees for these services are deferred and recognized as performance occurs. The majority of our revenue transactions contain standard business terms and conditions. However, at times, we enter into non standard arrangements including multiple element arrangements. As a result, judgments are used to evaluate (1) whether an arrangement exists, (2) how the arrangement consideration should be allocated among potential multiple elements; (3) when to recognize revenue on the deliverables; and (4) whether all elements of the arrangement have been delivered. Our revenue recognition policy also requires an assessment as to whether collection is reasonably assured, which requires us to evaluate the creditworthiness of our customers. Valuation of goodwill and other long lived assets Goodwill represents the excess of costs over fair value of net assets of businesses acquired. Fair value determination of acquired net assets, especially intangible assets, requires us to make significant estimates, assumptions and judgment. These estimates are based upon a number of factors, including historical experience, 39 Table of Contents market conditions and information obtained from the management of the acquired company. Critical estimates in valuing certain of the intangible assets include, but are not limited to, historical and projected customer retention rates, anticipated growth in revenue from the acquired customer and product base and the expected use of the acquired assets. These factors are also considered in determining the useful life of the acquired intangible assets. Goodwill and other intangible assets acquired in a business combination that are determined to have an indefinite useful life are not amortized, but instead are tested for impairment at least annually or between annual tests in the presence of impairment indicators such as: (a) a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate; (b) an adverse action or assessment by a regulator; (c) unanticipated competition; (d) loss of key personnel; (e) a more likely than not expectation of sale or disposal of a reporting unit or a significant portion thereof; (f) testing for recoverability of a significant asset group within a reporting unit; or (g) recognition of a goodwill impairment loss in the financial statements of a subsidiary that is a component of a reporting unit. Judgment is required in determining the existence of these factors and their effect on any impairment determination. The fair value of our reporting units is determined considering the income, the market or the transaction valuation approaches or a combination thereof. Under the income approach, the fair value of the reporting unit is based on the present value of estimated future cash flows that the reporting unit is expected to generate over its remaining life. Under the market approach, the value of the reporting unit is based on an analysis that compares the value of the reporting unit to values of publicly traded companies in similar lines of business. The transaction approach is a valuation technique that estimates the fair value of the reporting unit based on market prices on actual transactions and asking prices for businesses currently available for sale. The process of evaluating the potential impairment of goodwill is highly subjective and requires significant judgment at many points during the analysis. In estimating the fair value of our reporting units for the purposes of our annual or interim analyses, we make estimates and judgments about the future cash flows, operating trends, discount rates, control premiums, and other variables of these businesses. Although our cash flow forecasts are based on assumptions that are consistent with the plans and estimates we use to manage the underlying businesses, there is significant judgment in determining the cash flows attributable to these businesses over their estimated remaining useful lives. We also consider our market capitalization on the date we perform the analysis. Given the significant excess of fair value over our reporting units carrying value, the goodwill valuations were not overly sensitive to valuation methodologies or assumptions. Further, a hypothetical change of 10% in the fair value of our reporting units would not have resulted in goodwill impairments as of December 31, 2010. Our other long lived assets consist primarily of property and equipment and purchased intangible assets. We review other long lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that we will not be able to recover the assets carrying amount. Such events or circumstances include, but are not limited to, a significant decrease in the fair value of the underlying business or asset, a significant decrease in the benefits realized from the acquired business, difficulty and delays in integrating the business or a significant change in the operations of the acquired business or use of an asset. Recoverability of other long lived assets is measured by comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to estimated undiscounted cash flows of the group containing the asset. If the carrying amount of an asset group exceeds its estimated future cash flows, an impairment charge is recognized by the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair value. Restructuring charges We have initiated restructuring plans including workforce reductions, involving employee severance benefits, and abandonment of excess facilities. Accounting for severance costs requires identifying whether the costs are associated with an ongoing arrangement or are considered a one time benefit. Severance costs associated with an ongoing arrangement are recorded once the costs are determined to be both probable and 40 Table of Contents estimable. Severance costs that are considered a one time benefit are measured at fair value and are recognized upfront or over the future service period, depending on whether future service is required, if certain conditions are met, including i) managements commitment to a detailed plan of termination that identifies the number of employees, their job classifications or functions and their locations, and expected completion date; and ii) the plan has been communicated to the employees. Determining the appropriate accounting model to use and estimating the fair value and the future service period requires judgment and could differ materially from actual experience and would require us to change our estimates, as necessary, with cumulative catch up adjustments in the period of change. Excess facilities restructuring charges take into account the fair value of the future lease obligations of the abandoned space, including the potential for sublease income. Estimating the amount of sublease income requires management to make estimates for the space that will be rented, the rate per square foot that might be received and the vacancy period of each property. These estimates could differ materially from actual amounts due to changes in the real estate markets in which the properties are located, such as the supply of office space and prevailing lease rates. Changing market conditions by location and considerable work with third party leasing companies require us to periodically review each lease and change our estimates on a prospective basis, as necessary. Fair value of financial instruments Our Convertible Debentures have a contingent interest payment provision, that is identified as an embedded derivative, to be accounted for separately at fair value, and is marked to market at the end of each reporting period. We utilize a valuation model based on simulations of stock prices, interest rates, credit ratings and bond prices to estimate the value of the derivative. The significant inputs to the model include risk adjusted interest rates, volatility and average yield curve observations and stock price. Several significant inputs to the model are not observable and require management judgment. Stock based compensation We use the Black Scholes option pricing model to determine the fair value of stock options and employee stock purchase plan shares which contain a service and or performance condition. The determination of the fair value of stock based awards on the date of grant using an option pricing model is affected by our stock price as well as assumptions regarding a few complex and subjective variables, primarily, expected stock price volatility and expected term of the awards. Expected volatility is based on a combination of historical volatility of our common stock over a period commensurate with the expected term of the options and the mean historical implied volatility from traded options. We estimate the expected term of options granted based on observed and expected time to post vesting exercise and or cancellations. We are also required to estimate forfeitures at the time of grant for restricted stock units, stock options and employee stock purchase plan offerings and revise those estimates in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. We use historical data to estimate pre vesting forfeitures and record stock based compensation expense only for those awards that are expected to vest. We use the Monte Carlo simulation option pricing model to determine the fair value of awards with market conditions. The Monte Carlo simulation option pricing model takes into account the same input assumptions as the Black Scholes model; however, it also further incorporates into the fair value determination the possibility that the market condition may not be satisfied. If factors change and as a result we employ different assumptions for estimating stock based compensation expense in future periods, the stock based compensation expense we record for such future periods may differ significantly from what we have recorded in the current period and could materially affect our results of operations. 41 Table of Contents Litigation and contingencies Accruals for loss contingencies are based on managements judgment as to the amount of loss to be incurred. An accrual can be recorded when the event causing the loss is probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated. These accruals are based largely on estimates that require significant judgment, which could differ from actual results, thereby requiring us to record additional accruals or reverse a portion of such accruals. Income taxes Accounting for income taxes requires significant judgments in the development of estimates used in income tax calculations. Such judgments include, but are not limited to, the likelihood we would realize the benefits of net operating loss carryforwards, domestic and or foreign tax credit carryforwards, the adequacy of valuation allowances, and the rates used to measure transactions with foreign subsidiaries. To the extent recovery of deferred tax assets is not likely, we record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. Our operations involve dealing with uncertainties and judgments in the application of complex tax regulations in multiple jurisdictions. The final taxes payable are dependent upon many factors, including negotiations with taxing authorities in various jurisdictions and resolution of disputes arising from U.S. federal, state, and international tax audits. We only recognize or continue to only recognize tax positions that meet a more likely than not threshold. We adjust these amounts in light of changing facts and circumstances; however, due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from our current estimate of the tax liabilities. Deferred income taxes have not been provided on the undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries because these earnings have been indefinitely reinvested and we do not plan to initiate any action that would precipitate the payment of income taxes thereon. We consider the following matters, among others, in evaluating our plans for indefinite reinvestment: the forecasts, budgets and financial requirements of the parent and subsidiaries for both the long and short term; the tax consequences of a decision to reinvest; and any U.S. and foreign government programs designed to influence remittances. If factors change and as a result we are unable to indefinitely reinvest the foreign earnings, the income tax expense and payments may differ significantly from the current period and could materially adversely affect our results of operations. 42 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table sets forth selected information regarding our results of operations as a percentage of revenues: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Revenues 100 % 100 % 100 % Costs and expenses Cost of revenues 23 27 29 Sales and marketing 12 12 15 Research and development 8 9 11 General and administrative 20 24 30 Restructuring, impairments and other charges, net 3 2 20 Total costs and expenses 66 74 105 Operating income (loss) 34 26 (5 ) Interest expense (23 ) (8 ) (8 ) Non operating income, net 3 2 17 Income from continuing operations before income taxes and loss from unconsolidated entities 14 20 4 Income tax (expense) benefit (4 ) (5 ) 2 Loss from unconsolidated entities, net of tax (1 ) Income from continuing operations, net of tax 10 15 5 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax 112 26 (75 ) Net income (loss) 122 41 (70 ) Less: Net (income) loss attributable to noncontrolling interest in subsidiary (1 ) 3 Net income (loss) attributable to Verisign stockholders 122 % 40 % (67 %) Revenues Revenues related to our Registry Services are primarily derived from registrations for domain names in the .com, .net, .cc, .tv, .name and .jobs domain name registries. Revenues from .cc, .tv, .name and .jobs are not significant. For domain names registered with the .com and .net registries, we receive a fee from third party registrars per annual registration that is fixed pursuant to our agreements with ICANN. Individual customers, called registrants, contract directly with third party registrars or their resellers, and the third party registrars in turn register the .com, .net, .cc, .tv, .name and .jobs domain names with Verisign. Changes in revenues are driven largely by increases in the number of new domain name registrations and the renewal rate for existing registrations, in each case as impacted by continued Internet growth, promotional marketing programs, marketing expenditure by third party registrars, as well as fee increases as permitted under our agreements with ICANN. On July 1, 2010, we increased our .com domain name registration fees by 7% from $6.86 to $7.34. We have the contractual right to increase the fees for .com domain name registrations by up to 7% either in 2011 or in 2012 prior to the end of the current agreement with ICANN on November 30, 2012. On July 1, 2010, we increased our .net domain name registration fees by 10% from $4.23 to $4.65. We have the contractual right to increase the fees for .net domain name registrations by up to 10% in 2011 prior to the end of the current agreement with ICANN on June 30, 2011. We offer promotional marketing programs for our registrars based upon market conditions and the business environment in which the registrars operate. We are largely insulated from the risk posed by fluctuations in exchange rates due to the fact that all revenues paid to us for .com and .net registrations are in U.S. dollars. Revenues from NIA Services are not significant. 43 Table of Contents A comparison of revenues is presented below: 2010 %Change 2009 %Change 2008 (Dollars in thousands) Revenues $ 680,578 10 % $ 615,947 10 % $ 558,896 The following table compares domain names ending in .com and .net managed by our Registry Services business: December 31,2010 %Change December 31,2009 %Change December 31,2008 Active domain names ending in .com and .net 105.2 million 9 % 96.7 million 7 % 90.4 million Our revenues increased by $64.6 million in 2010, as compared to 2009, primarily due to a 9% year over year increase in the number of domain names ending in .com and .net and increases in our .com and .net registry fees in October 2008 and July 2010 as per our agreements with ICANN, partially offset by a $7.6 million decrease in revenues because of a one time project completed in 2009. Our revenues increased by $57.0 million in 2009, as compared to 2008, primarily due to a 7% year over year increase in the number of domain names ending in .com and .net and an increase in our .com and .net registry fees in October 2008, partially offset by $9.9 million decrease because of revenues in 2008 from legacy services which were divested in 2008. The growth in the number of active domain names was primarily driven by continued Internet growth and new domain name promotional programs. We expect to see continued growth in the number of active domain names in 2011 as a result of further Internet growth. In addition, we expect to see continued growth internationally in both .com and .net domain name bases, especially in markets that we have targeted through our marketing programs. We expect revenues to increase in fiscal 2011 as compared to fiscal 2010 as a result of continued growth in the number of active domain names ending in .com and .net and implementation of the fee increase which became effective in July 2010 as domain names are up for renewal at the increased price. New TLDs, including new IDN TLDs, ccTLDs and gTLDs, may be introduced by ICANN in 2011 and or 2012. We cannot assess the impact, if any, the introduction of these new TLDs will have on our revenues and results of operations. See Item 1A. Risk Factors The business environment is highly competitive and, if we do not compete effectively, we may suffer price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share, of this Form 10 K. Geographic Revenues We operate in the U.S.; Australia, China, India and other Asia Pacific countries (APAC); Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA); and certain other countries including Canada and Latin American countries. A comparison of our geographic revenues is presented below: 2010 %Change 2009 %Change 2008 (Dollars in thousands) U.S. $ 419,315 7 % $ 393,522 9 % $ 360,361 APAC 103,494 19 % 86,828 10 % 79,085 EMEA 92,351 17 % 79,081 10 % 71,845 Other 65,418 16 % 56,516 19 % 47,605 Total revenues $ 680,578 $ 615,947 $ 558,896 Revenues are generally attributed to the country of domicile and the respective regions in which our customers are located. 44 Table of Contents Revenues from each of the respective regions increased in 2010, as compared to 2009, primarily driven by an increase in the number of domain names ending in .com and .net, and an increase in our .com and .net registry fees in July 2010 and October 2008. 2009 U.S revenues include $7.6 million from a one time project. Revenues from each of the respective regions increased in 2009, as compared to 2008, primarily driven by an increase in the number of domain names ending in .com and .net, and an increase in our .com and .net registry fees in October 2008. 2009 and 2008 U.S. revenues include $7.6 million and $5.9 million, respectively, from a one time project. Mature markets such as the U.S., where broadband and e commerce have seen strong market penetration, are expected to see decreasing incremental growth rates reflecting the maturing of the markets. We expect to see larger increases in certain international regions, resulting from greater broadband and Internet penetration and expanding e commerce as electronic means of payments are increasingly adopted. Cost of Revenues Cost of revenues consist primarily of salaries and employee benefits expenses for our personnel that manage the operational systems, depreciation expenses, operational costs associated with the delivery of our services, fees paid to ICANN, customer support and training, consulting and development services, costs of facilities and computer equipment used in these activities, and allocations of indirect costs such as corporate overhead. All allocations of indirect costs are included in continuing operations. A comparison of cost of revenues is presented below: 2010 %Change 2009 %Change 2008 (Dollars in thousands) Cost of revenues $ 156,676 (6 %) $ 166,705 4 % $ 160,845 2010 compared to 2009: Cost of revenues decreased primarily due to decreases in allocated overhead expenses, expenses related to a one time revenue project, occupancy expenses, contract and professional services expenses, and equipment and software expenses, partially offset by increases in salary and employee benefits expenses, depreciation expenses, telecommunication expenses and fees paid to ICANN. Allocated overhead expenses decreased by $14.2 million, primarily due to a decrease in allocable indirect costs and a decrease in proportional headcount within the cost of revenues function as a result of the divestitures in 2010 and 2009. Expenses related to a one time revenue project that was completed in 2009 decreased by $4.5 million. Occupancy expenses decreased by $2.4 million, primarily due to the purchase in December 2009 of a previously leased facility, management cost saving initiatives to reduce overall utility expenses, and the elimination of certain shared services utility expenses as a result of the sale of the Authentication Services business. Contract and professional services expenses decreased by $1.8 million, primarily due to a decrease in the need for such external services and the increase in internal resources. Equipment and software expenses decreased by $1.2 million, primarily due to a decrease in equipment and software maintenance contracts required to support the business as a result of the sale of the Authentication Services business and the purchase in 2010 of certain equipments that were previously leased. Salary and employee benefits expenses increased by $4.2 million, primarily due to an increase in average headcount. Depreciation expenses increased by $3.7 million, primarily due to an increase in capitalized hardware and software to support investments in our infrastructure and the purchase in 2009 of a previously leased facility. Telecommunication expenses increased by $3.3 million, primarily due to an increase in colocation expenses and additional circuits required to support the increase in our network infrastructure. Fees paid to ICANN increased by $3.0 million resulting from a fee increase in July 2009. 2009 compared to 2008: Cost of revenues increased primarily due to increases in depreciation expenses, fees paid to ICANN, and telecommunication expenses offset by a decrease in allocated overhead expenses, contract and professional services expenses, salary and employee benefits expenses and expenses related to a 45 Table of Contents one time revenue project. Depreciation expenses increased by $10.7 million, primarily due to increase in capitalized hardware and software to support investments in our infrastructure. Fees paid to ICANN increased by $5.0 million resulting from a fee increase in July 2009. Telecommunication expenses increased by $2.8 million, primarily due to an increase in colocation expenses and additional circuits required to support the increase in our network infrastructure. Allocated overhead expenses decreased by $6.8 million, primarily due to a decrease in proportional headcount within the cost of revenues function as a result of the divestitures in 2009 and 2008. The divested businesses had a higher proportional headcount in cost of revenues. Contract and professional services expenses decreased by $4.4 million primarily due to a decrease in the need for such external services and the increase in internal resources. Salary and employee benefits expenses decreased by $1.8 million, primarily due to a decrease in bonus expense and stock based compensation expenses. Expenses related to a one time revenue project that was completed in 2009 decreased by $1.8 million. We expect cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues to remain consistent in 2011 as compared to 2010. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of salaries, sales commissions, sales operations and other personnel related expenses, travel and related expenses, trade shows, costs of lead generation, costs of computer and communications equipment and support services, facilities costs, consulting fees, costs of marketing programs, such as the Internet, television, radio, print and direct mail advertising costs, and allocations of indirect costs such as corporate overhead. All allocations of indirect costs are included in continuing operations. A comparison of sales and marketing expenses is presented below: 2010 %Change 2009 %Change 2008 (Dollars in thousands) Sales and marketing $ 83,390 11 % $ 75,348 (11 %) $ 84,843 2010 compared to 2009: Sales and marketing expenses increased primarily due to increases in advertising, marketing and consulting expenses, and salary and employee benefits expenses, partially offset by a decrease in allocated overhead expenses. Advertising, marketing and consulting expenses increased by $6.4 million, primarily due to certain corporate and Registry Services related advertising and marketing campaigns in 2010. Salary and employee benefits expenses increased $6.3 million, primarily due to an increase in average headcount to support the NIA Services business and other new products and services. Allocated overhead expenses decreased by $5.4 million, primarily due to a decrease in allocable indirect costs and a decrease in proportional headcount within the sales and marketing function as a result of divestitures in 2010 and 2009. 2009 compared to 2008: Sales and marketing expenses decreased primarily due to decreases in salary and employee benefits expenses and travel expenses, partially offset by increases in allocated overhead expenses, and advertising, marketing and consulting expenses. Salary and employee benefits expenses decreased by $13.7 million, primarily due to lower average headcount resulting from the 2008 restructuring plan. Travel expenses decreased by $2.8 million, primarily due to lower average headcount and managements cost savings initiatives. Allocated overhead expenses increased by $5.0 million, primarily due to an increase in proportional headcount within the sales and marketing function as a result of the divestitures in 2009 and 2008. Advertising, marketing and consulting expenses increased by $4.7 million, primarily due to international marketing initiatives and other efforts to increase the market penetration of our Registry Services business in 2009. We expect sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of revenues to increase slightly in 2011 as compared to 2010, as a result of investments in our NIA sales force and certain marketing initiatives. 46 Table of Contents Research and Development Research and development expenses consist primarily of costs related to research and development personnel, including salaries and other personnel related expenses, consulting fees, the cost of facilities, computer and communications equipment, support services used in our service and technology development, and allocations of indirect costs such as corporate overhead. All allocations of indirect costs are included in continuing operations. A comparison of research and development expenses is presented below: 2010 %Change 2009 %Change 2008 (Dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 53,664 2 % $ 52,364 (15 %) $ 61,750 2010 compared to 2009: Research and development expenses increased primarily due to an increase in salary and employee benefits expenses, partially offset by a decrease in allocated overhead expenses, an increase in capitalized labor, and a decrease in contract and professional services expenses. Salary and employee benefits expenses increased by $9.5 million, primarily due to an increase in average headcount primarily used to support the development of the DNS infrastructure and the NIA Services business. Allocated overhead expenses decreased by $3.3 million, primarily due to a decrease in allocable indirect costs as a result of the divestitures in 2010 and 2009. Capitalized labor increased by $2.4 million, primarily due to an increase in internally developed software projects. Contract and professional services expenses decreased by $1.6 million, primarily due to a decrease in the need for such external services and the increase in internal resources. 2009 compared to 2008: Research and development expenses decreased primarily due to decreases in depreciation expenses, salary and employee benefits expenses, and contract and professional services expenses, partially offset by an increase in allocated overhead expenses. Depreciation expenses decreased by $4.8 million, primarily due to a reduction in capitalized assets depreciated to research and development expenses in 2009. Salary and employee benefits expenses decreased by $3.1 million, primarily due to lower average headcount resulting from the 2008 restructuring plan. Contract and professional services expenses decreased by $1.6 million, primarily due to a decrease in the services of outside contractors due to managements cost savings initiatives and need for such external services and the increase in internal resources. Allocated overhead expenses increased by $2.4 million, primarily due to an increase in proportional headcount within the research and development function as a result of the divestitures in 2009 and 2008. We expect research and development expenses as a percentage of revenues to remain consistent in 2011 as compared to 2010. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries and other personnel related expenses for our executive, administrative, legal, finance, information technology and human resources personnel, facilities, computer and communications equipment, management information systems, support services, professional services fees, certain tax and license fees, and bad debt expense, offset by allocations of indirect costs such as facilities and shared services expenses to other cost types. All allocations of indirect costs are included in continuing operations. A comparison of general and administrative expenses is presented below: 2010 %Change 2009 %Change 2008 (Dollars in thousands) General and administrative $ 137,704 (6 %) $ 146,531 (13 %) $ 168,873 47 Table of Contents 2010 compared to 2009: General and administrative expenses decreased primarily due to decreases in contract and professional services expenses, telecommunication expenses, depreciation expenses, miscellaneous general and administrative expenses, and salary and employee benefits expenses, partially offset by a decrease in corporate overhead expenses allocated to other cost types. Contract and professional services expenses decreased by $9.7 million, primarily due to professional services costs incurred in 2009 for accounting and auditing services related to our divestiture strategy, as well as a reduction in our need for such outside professional services. Telecommunication expenses decreased by $6.2 million, primarily due to a reduction in circuits to support the business as a result of the divestitures and a one time minimum commitment short fall expense recorded in 2009. Depreciation expenses decreased by $4.9 million, primarily due to certain capital software projects becoming fully depreciated prior to 2010 and ceasing further depreciation on corporate assets held for sale in May 2010, the results of operations of which were classified as continuing operations until the third quarter of 2010. Miscellaneous general and administrative expenses decreased by $4.1 million, primarily due to certain adjustments in 2010 for a release of an accrual for certain non income tax contingencies when the statute of limitations expired, a refund of a previously expensed non income tax payment, and an adjustment of certain expense accruals, coupled with certain asset write offs during 2009. Salary and employee benefits expenses decreased by $4.0 million primarily due to a decrease in average headcount primarily due to the divestitures in 2010 and 2009 and a reduction in the amount of overhead to support the business. Overhead expenses allocated to other cost types decreased by $21.4 million primarily due to a decrease in allocable indirect costs and proportionately higher headcount in the general and administrative function as a result of the divestures in 2010 and 2009. 2009 compared to 2008: General and administrative expenses decreased primarily due to decreases in salary and employee benefits expenses, depreciation expenses, contract and professional services expenses, travel expenses, and telecommunication expenses, partially offset by increases in legal expenses and occupancy expenses. Salary and employee benefits expenses decreased by $17.8 million, primarily due to a decrease in average headcount which resulted from the divestitures in 2009 and 2008 and the 2008 restructuring plan. Depreciation expenses decreased by $6.3 million primarily due to a decrease in capitalized assets supporting our continuing operations and a reduction of facility related depreciation expenses caused by the sale of certain office buildings in 2008. Contract and professional services expenses decreased by $5.3 million, primarily due to a decrease in professional services costs incurred for accounting and auditing services related to our divestitures which were substantially completed during 2009. Travel expenses decreased by $2.0 million primarily due to managements cost saving initiatives. Telecommunication expenses decreased by $1.8 million primarily due to a reduction in circuits required to support the business as a result of the divestitures in 2009 and 2008. Legal expenses increased by $5.2 million, primarily due to the reversal in 2008 of certain previously accrued estimated litigation settlement costs in excess of actual final outcome. Occupancy expenses increased by $2.7 million, primarily due to the sale and leaseback of certain office buildings in 2008. We expect general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues to decrease in 2011 as compared to 2010, as we continue to realize post divestiture cost reductions in our general and administrative function. Restructuring Charges The following table presents the nature of restructuring charges: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (In thousands) Workforce reduction $ 32,623 $ 13,067 $ 63,844 Excess facilities (424 ) 2,685 5,381 Other exit costs 1,211 Total consolidated restructuring charges $ 32,199 $ 15,752 $ 70,436 Amounts classified as continuing operations $ 16,861 $ 5,357 $ 29,458 Amounts classified as discontinued operations $ 15,338 $ 10,395 $ 40,978 48 Table of Contents 2010 Restructuring Plan In connection with the sale of the Authentication Services business and the migration of our corporate functions from our Mountain View facility to our facility in Dulles, Virginia, we initiated a restructuring plan in 2010, including workforce reductions, abandonment of excess facilities and other exit costs (the 2010 Restructuring Plan). Under the 2010 Restructuring Plan, we will incur total estimated pre tax cash charges of $22.4 million in severance costs and other related employee termination costs. Through December 31, 2010, we recorded a total of $19.7 million in cash restructuring charges, inclusive of amounts for discontinued operations, under our 2010 Restructuring Plan, related to employee terminations. We expect to recognize excess facility exit costs of $13.7 million. Additionally we recognized stock based compensation expenses of $10.5 million, inclusive of amounts for discontinued operations in 2010, upon acceleration of stock based awards for employees notified of termination and expect to recognize further expenses for employees to be terminated in the future. However, at this time, we are not able, in good faith, to make a determination of the estimated amount or range of amounts thereon. We expect to recognize all remaining cash and stock based restructuring charges over the next several quarters through the end of fiscal 2011. 2008 Restructuring Plan As part of its divestiture strategy announced in 2007, we had initiated a restructuring plan in the first quarter of 2008 (the 2008 Restructuring Plan) including workforce reductions, abandonment of excess facilities and other exit costs. Through December 31, 2010, we recorded a total of $87.3 million in restructuring charges, inclusive of amounts for discontinued operations, under its 2008 Restructuring Plan. The 2008 Restructuring Plan was substantially completed as of June 30, 2010. Impairments and Other Charges Impairments of Goodwill and other intangible assets In 2009, we recorded an impairment charge of $9.7 million related to our .name gTLD intangible asset in continuing operations, included in Restructuring, impairment and other charges. In 2008, we recorded impairment charges of $77.6 million for goodwill related to our VeriSign Japan reporting unit and $45.8 million for goodwill related to our former Post pay reporting unit, both of which are included in discontinued operations. Other Charges In 2008, we recorded a loss of $79.1 million as a result of the sale of a portion of our Mountain View facilities included in Restructuring, impairment and other charges. Interest Expense Interest expense consists of contractual interest payments, amortization of debt discount and debt issuance costs on the liability component of our Convertible Debentures, contingent interest payments to holders of our Convertible Debentures, and Other interest expenses primarily related to our $500.0 million senior unsecured revolving credit facility (the Facility), offset by capitalized interest. We terminated the Facility in November 2010. 49 Table of Contents A comparison of interest expense is presented below: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (Dollars in thousands) Contractual interest. $ 40,625 $ 40,625 $ 40,625 Amortization of debt discount on the liability component 6,775 6,241 5,731 Contingent interest to holders of our Convertible Debentures (1) 109,113 Interest capitalized to property and equipment, net (676 ) (1,090 ) (4,228 ) Other interest expense 1,830 1,575 2,263 Total interest expense $ 157,667 $ 47,351 $ 44,391 (1) The Indenture governing the Convertible Debentures requires the payment of contingent interest to the holders of the Convertible Debentures, if the Board declares a dividend to our stockholders that is designated by the Board as an extraordinary dividend. The contingent interest is calculated as the amount derived by multiplying the per share declared dividend with the if converted number of shares applicable to the Convertible Debentures. The Board declared an extraordinary dividend in December 2010, and consequently we paid $109.1 million contingent interest to holders of the Convertible Debentures. Interest expense increased in 2010 primarily due to a $109.1 million contingent interest payment to holders of our Convertible Debentures. Non Operating Income, Net Non operating income, net, consists primarily of interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, net gains or losses on the sale and impairment of investments, net gains or losses on the divestiture of certain businesses, realized and unrealized gains and losses on the contingent interest derivative on the Convertible Debentures, income from transition services agreements, and the net effect of foreign currency gains and losses. A comparison of non operating income, net, is presented below: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (In thousands) Interest and dividend income $ 7,652 $ 2,638 $ 14,747 Net gain on divestiture of businesses and joint ventures 908 80,536 Unrealized (loss) gain on contingent interest derivative on Convertible Debentures (500 ) 549 3,616 Income from transition services agreements 10,631 4,944 3,641 Other, net 2,955 2,906 (8,653 ) Total non operating income, net $ 20,738 $ 11,945 $ 93,887 2010 compared to 2009: Non operating income, net, increased in 2010. Interest and dividend income increased primarily as a result of investing in 2010 in marketable securities which have higher interest rates as compared to money market funds, and higher average cash balances as a result of the proceeds from the sale of the Authentication Services business. Income from transition services agreements increased, primarily due to an increase in transition services provided to support certain divestitures in 2010 and 2009. Other, net in 2010, primarily includes a $4.3 million realized gain due to distributions received in 2010 from the Funds held by The Reserve that exceed their book value, and $1.9 million in miscellaneous income, partially offset by $2.9 million in foreign currency losses. 2009 compared to 2008: Non operating income, net, decreased in 2009. Interest and dividend income decreased due to cash balances invested in lower interest rate securities in 2009. In 2008, net gain on divestiture 50 Table of Contents of businesses includes a $77.8 million gain upon divestiture of our remaining 49% ownership interest in the Jamba joint ventures. Income from transition services agreements increased, primarily due to an increase in transition services provided to support the buyers of certain divested businesses during 2009. Other, net, in 2009 primarily includes the cash receipt of $3.3 million from Certicom Corporation (Certicom) upon termination of the acquisition agreement entered into with Certicom, and $1.0 million in miscellaneous rental income, partially offset by $2.3 million in foreign currency losses. Other, net, in 2008, includes a charge of $8.2 million for an other than temporary impairment of money market investments in Funds held by The Reserve as a result of managements assessment for our investment portfolio with consideration to the economic market conditions at the time. Income Tax Expense Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (Dollars in thousands) Income tax (expense) benefit from continuing operations $ (25,322 ) $ (32,935 ) $ 12,070 Effective tax rate 27% 26% (51% ) Our effective tax rate for 2010 differs from the statutory federal rate of 35% primarily due to tax benefits from foreign operations and a change in estimated tax expense related to a divested business, offset by the tax effects of state tax rate changes and an increase in accruals for uncertain tax positions. Our effective tax rate for 2009 differs from the statutory federal rate of 35% primarily due to tax benefits from foreign operations, a state tax law change, a favorable state tax audit result and releases of reserves related to lapses of statute of limitations. Our effective tax rate for 2008 differs from the statutory federal rate of 35% primarily due to tax benefits from foreign operations, the release of valuation allowances and releases of accruals for uncertain tax positions related to statute closures, offset by the tax expense related to the conclusion of an Internal Revenue Service audit. As of December 31, 2010, we had deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences, tax losses, and tax credits of $145.5 million before the offset of certain deferred liabilities. With the exception of certain deferred tax assets related to book and tax bases differences of certain investments and certain foreign net operating loss carryforwards, we believe it is more likely than not that forecasted income, together with the tax effects of the deferred tax liabilities, will be sufficient to fully recover the remaining deferred tax assets. During 2010, we reduced our valuation allowance by $26.7 million previously applied to capital loss carryforwards as sufficient capital gains were generated during 2010. We increased our valuation allowance by $12.8 million in 2010 mainly for a loss carryforward in a foreign jurisdiction because we do not expect to generate sufficient taxable income in that jurisdiction in the future. We qualify for tax holidays in Switzerland and India. In Switzerland, the tax holidays provide reduced rates of taxation on certain types of income and also require certain thresholds of investment and employment. In Switzerland, the tax holiday on certain income types expires in 2011 and the tax holiday on remaining income types expires in 2015. In India, we have qualified for the Software Technology Park of India (STPI) tax program with respect to our research and development activities. This exemption is scheduled to expire on March 31, 2011. Notwithstanding qualification for this exemption, we are subject to minimum alternative tax rules in India which override the STPI regime and subject us to minimum tax on qualifying income. Due to net operating loss carryforwards from prior years, the tax holidays did not have a material impact on our earnings per share for 2009 and 2008. The tax holidays increased our diluted earnings per share in 2010 by $0.12. 51 Table of Contents Income (loss) from Discontinued operations, net of tax In 2010, we sold our Authentication Services business and ceased the operations of our CPS business. The results of operations of these businesses have been classified as discontinued operations for all periods presented. In 2009, we sold the following businesses: MDG Services, MMM Services, GSC, MSS, RTP Services, Communications Services and International Clearing. In 2009, we also ceased the operations of the Pre pay Services business. The results of operations of these businesses have been classified as discontinued operations for all periods presented. In 2008, we sold the following businesses: EMM, Post pay, Communications Consulting, DBMS, CDN, SC&A, and the remaining 49% ownership interest in the Jamba joint ventures. The results of operations of these businesses, except CDN and the Jamba joint ventures, have been classified as discontinued operations for all periods presented. We retained an equity ownership in the CDN business. As a result of the continuing involvement in the CDN business, the historical results of operations of the CDN business have not been classified as discontinued operations. For a period of time, we will continue to generate cash flows and will report income statement activity in continuing operations that are associated with the Authentication Services business and certain other completed divestitures. These activities are transitional in nature and generally result from agreements ensuring and facilitating the orderly transfer of business operations. The nature, magnitude and duration of the agreements vary depending on the specific circumstances of the service, location or business need. The existing agreements include the following: data center hosting, support of financial processes, and information services. As of December 31, 2010, the existing agreements have remaining terms from 1 to 31 months in length. The following table presents the revenues and the components of Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (In thousands) Revenues $ 248,740 $ 639,698 $ 996,540 Income from discontinued operations before income taxes $ 63,906 $ 179,119 $ 77,325 Gains (losses) on sale of discontinued operations and estimated losses on assets held for sale, before income taxes (1) 979,560 36,027 (433,304 ) Income tax expense (279,644 ) (57,524 ) (65,967 ) Income (loss) from discontinued operations 763,822 157,622 (421,946 ) Less: (Income) loss from discontinued operations, net of tax, attributable to noncontrolling interest in subsidiary (2,887 ) (3,686 ) 16,009 Total income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax, attributable to Verisign stockholders $ 760,935 $ 153,936 $ (405,937 ) (1) Amounts in 2008 include net estimated losses on assets held for sale of $412.0 million related to the divestitures completed in 2009 and ceasing operations of the CPS business. The differences between income tax expenses and the amounts resulting from application of the federal statutory rate of 35% to Income (loss) from discontinued operations before income taxes are primarily attributable to non deductible goodwill transferred or written off in the divestitures or impairments and the realization of deductible capital loss from divestitures. Net gains on disposal are recorded on the date the sale of the disposal group is consummated. Full or partial reversals of previously reported estimated losses on disposal are recorded upon changes in the fair values and or carrying values of the disposal groups. 52 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 31, 2010 2009 (In thousands) Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,559,628 $ 1,477,166 Marketable securities 501,238 185 Total $ 2,060,866 $ 1,477,351 As of December 31, 2010, our principal source of liquidity was $1.56 billion of cash and cash equivalents and $501.2 million of marketable securities. We received $1.16 billion, $469.4 million and $274.3 million of cash proceeds from divestiture of businesses, net of cash contributed and transaction costs, for 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. In December 2010, we declared and paid a special dividend of $3.00 per share of our common stock totaling $518.2 million. As a result of the dividend, we also paid $109.1 million in contingent interest to holders of our Convertible Debentures. In 2010, we repurchased approximately 15.7 million shares of our common stock at an average stock price of $27.93 for an aggregate cost of $437.7 million. In 2009, we repurchased approximately 11.3 million shares of our common stock at an average stock price of $22.31 for an aggregate cost of $252.8 million. In 2008, we repurchased approximately 38.6 million shares of our common stock at an average stock price of $34.07 for an aggregate cost of $1.31 billion. As of December 31, 2010, $1.37 billion remained available for further repurchases in the future. We continue to evaluate various means to return approximately $650 million to our common stockholders in 2011. We purchased marketable securities of $787.7 million and received $284.6 million from maturities and sales of marketable securities in 2010. There were no purchases or sales of marketable securities in 2009 and 2008. We received distributions aggregating to $25.2 million, $129.5 million and $98.2 million from Funds held by The Reserve in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We had income taxes payable, primarily upon the gain resulting from divestiture of businesses, of $131.9 million, $25.9 million, and $41.5 million, in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, before consideration of carried forward excess tax benefits from exercises of stock options and other employee stock purchases. We had a credit facility that permitted cash borrowings up to a maximum of $500.0 million which was scheduled to mature on June 7, 2011. We terminated this credit facility, effective November 3, 2010. In summary, our cash flows for 2010, 2009 and 2008 were as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (In thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 215,206 $ 395,191 $ 484,034 Net cash provided by investing activities 603,090 484,455 76,764 Net cash used in financing activities (745,274 ) (197,994 ) (1,164,027 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 9,440 6,446 15,575 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 82,462 $ 688,098 $ (587,654 ) 53 Table of Contents Net cash provided by operating activities Our largest source of operating cash flows is cash collections from our customers. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities are for personnel related expenditures, and other general operating expenses, as well as payments related to taxes and facilities. Operating cash flows presented in the table above include cash flows from the operations of the divested businesses and therefore are not indicative of future trends. 2010 compared to 2009: Cash provided by operating activities decreased primarily due to a decrease in cash received from customers resulting from a decrease in consolidated revenues, including decreased revenues from discontinued operations, coupled with the timing of receipts from customers; higher income taxes payable, primarily upon the gain resulting from the sale of the Authentication Services business, before consideration of carried forward excess tax benefits from exercises of stock options and other employee stock purchases; and the payment of contingent interest on the Convertible Debentures. The decrease is partially offset by a decrease in cash payments to suppliers and employees, primarily resulting from the completion of our divestitures in 2010 and 2009, and lower average headcount in 2010; an increase in interest income resulting from investments in higher interest rate marketable securities; and an increase in income from transition services agreements, primarily due to an increase in transition services provided to support certain divestitures in 2010 and 2009. 2009 compared to 2008: Cash provided by operating activities decreased primarily due to a decrease in cash received from customers resulting from a decrease in consolidated revenues, including decreased revenues from discontinued operations, coupled with the timing of receipts from customers; and a decrease in interest income that resulted from investments in lower interest rate securities and an increase in income tax payment resulting from higher pre tax income in 2009. The decrease in cash receipts was partially offset by a decrease in cash payments to suppliers and employees primarily resulting from the completion of our divestitures and lower average headcount in 2009. Net cash provided by investing activities The changes in cash flows from investing activities primarily relate to divestiture of businesses, timing of purchases, maturities and sales of investments, and purchases of property and equipment. 2010 compared to 2009: Net cash provided by investing activities increased primarily due to an increase in proceeds received upon divestiture of businesses, an increase in proceeds from maturities and sales of marketable securities and investments and a decrease in purchases of property and equipment. The increase is partially offset by an increase in purchases of marketable securities and investments and proceeds received from sale of an office building in 2009. 2009 compared to 2008: Net cash provided by investing activities increased primarily due to an increase in proceeds received upon divestiture of businesses, and an increase in distributions received from the Funds held by The Reserve in 2009. The increase is partially offset by proceeds from the sale of certain office buildings in 2008 and proceeds received upon the termination of the trust established for our directors and officers liability self insurance coverage in 2008. In 2008, because of liquidity concerns, we reclassified our actively traded money market investments in the Funds held by the Reserve from Cash and cash equivalents to Prepaid expenses and other current assets. Net cash used in financing activities The changes in cash flows from financing activities primarily relate to stock repurchases and stock option exercise activities and dividend payments. 2010 compared to 2009: Net cash used in financing activities increased primarily due to the payment of a special dividend in December 2010, and an increase in stock repurchases. The increase is partially offset by an increase in proceeds from issuance of common stock from stock option exercises and employee stock purchase 54 Table of Contents plan and an increase in realized carried forward excess tax benefits from exercises of stock options and employee stock purchase plan. 2009 compared to 2008: Net cash used in financing activities decreased primarily due to a decrease in stock repurchases offset by a decrease in proceeds from issuance of common stock from stock option exercises and employee stock purchase plan and a decrease in realized carried forward excess tax benefits from exercises of stock options and employee stock purchase plans. We believe existing cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, together with funds generated from operations, should be sufficient to meet our working capital, capital expenditure requirements, our expectation of returning approximately $650 million to our common stockholders in 2011, and to service our debt for the next 12 months. Our philosophy regarding the maintenance of a balance sheet with a large component of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, reflects our views on potential future capital requirements relating to expansion of our businesses, related acquisitions, and share repurchases. We regularly assess our cash management approach and activities in view of our current and potential future needs. Impact of Inflation We believe that inflation has not had a significant impact on our operations during 2010, 2009 and 2008. Property and Equipment Expenditures Our planned property and equipment expenditures for 2011 are anticipated to be in the range of $65.0 million to $75.0 million and will primarily be focused on productivity, cost improvement, market development initiatives and leasehold improvements. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our significant non cancelable contractual obligations as of December 31, 2010, and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods: Payments due by period Total 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Thereafter Contractual obligations (In thousands) Operating lease obligations $ 129,225 $ 10,533 $ 18,283 $ 15,969 $ 84,440 Purchase obligations 22,285 17,052 5,233 ICANN agreement 34,500 18,000 16,500 .tv agreement 12,000 2,000 4,000 4,000 2,000 Convertible Debentures principal and interest 2,346,875 40,625 81,250 81,250 2,143,750 Total $ 2,544,885 $ 88,210 $ 125,266 $ 101,219 $ 2,230,190 As of December 31, 2010, we had commitments under non cancelable operating leases for our facilities for various terms through 2026. The table above includes aggregate lease payments of $105.6 million for a lease agreement entered into in 2010 of an office building containing approximately 221,000 square feet, in Reston, Virginia, to be used as our Corporate Headquarters. The lease is expected to commence in July 2011 commensurate with taking control of the premises and will expire in 2026. The lease term is for 15 years and 5 months which includes a five month rent holiday followed by 18 months of a 50% rent concession. We enter into certain purchase obligations with various vendors. Our significant purchase obligations primarily consist of firm commitments with telecommunication carriers and other service providers. We do not have any significant purchase obligations beyond 2012. 55 Table of Contents We have entered into agreements with the buyers of certain divested businesses, for which we continue to be responsible for certain contingent liabilities and transition services after the divestitures. We might incur costs and expenses associated with the resolution of these contingent liabilities. In addition, the transition services may be required for periods longer than initially anticipated by management and may be costlier to complete when compared to the payments that will be received from the buyers for these transition services. In 2007, we issued $1.25 billion principal amount of Convertible Debentures. We will pay cash interest semiannually to the holders of the Convertible Debentures on February 15 and August 15 of each year until maturity. We paid interest of $40.6 million on the Convertible Debentures in each of 2010, 2009 and 2008. In December 2010, we paid $109.1 million in contingent interest payment to holders of our Convertible Debentures, as a result of the special dividend to stockholders. In 2006, we entered into a contractual agreement with ICANN to be the sole registry operator for domain names in the .com top level domain through November 30, 2012. Under the agreement, we paid ICANN fixed registry level fees of $18.0 million, $15.0 million and $10.0 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. In 2001, we entered into an amended contractual agreement with the Government of Tuvalu to be the sole registry operator for .tv domain names through December 31, 2016. Pursuant to the terms of this agreement, in each of 2010, 2009 and 2008, we paid the Tuvalu government a total of $2.0 million annually in registry fees. We provide for uncertain tax positions and adjust our unrecognized tax benefits accordingly. Due to the inherent uncertainty with respect to the timing of future cash outflows associated with our unrecognized tax benefits as of December 31, 2010, we are unable to reliably estimate the timing of cash settlement with the respective taxing authorities. Therefore, $24.9 million of liabilities have been excluded from the contractual obligations table above. We enter into indemnification agreements with many of our customers and certain other business partners in the ordinary course of business. We also entered into indemnification agreements with Symantec in connection with the sale of the Authentication Services business. See Note 14, Commitments and Contingencies, Indemnifications of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this form 10 K. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements It is not our business practice to enter into off balance sheet arrangements. As of December 31, 2010, we did not have any significant off balance sheet arrangements. See Note 14, Commitments and Contingencies, Off Balance Sheet Arrangements, of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Form 10 K for further information regarding off balance sheet arrangements. Stock Options and Restricted Stock Units Grants of stock options and or restricted stock units are key components of the compensation packages we provide to attract and retain certain of our talented employees and align their interests with the interests of existing stockholders. We recognize that options and restricted stock units dilute existing stockholders and have sought to control the number of options and restricted stock units granted while providing competitive compensation packages. Consistent with these dual goals, our cumulative potential dilution since 2008 has been a weighted average annualized rate of 0.3% per year, calculated as the average annualized new options and restricted stock units granted, net of options and restricted stock units forfeited by employees during the calculation period (for example, upon termination of employment), divided by the weighted average outstanding shares during the calculation period. As of December 31, 2010, the maximum potential dilution from all outstanding options and restricted stock units, regardless of when granted and regardless of whether vested or unvested and including options where the strike price is higher than the current market price, was 3.2%. This maximum potential dilution will only result if all outstanding options vest and are exercised and all restricted 56 Table of Contents stock units vest and are settled. As of December 31, 2010, 18% of our outstanding options had exercise prices in excess of the current market price. Consistent with our historical practices, we do not expect that dilution from future grants of stock options and restricted stock units before the effect of our stock repurchase program will exceed 2.0% per year for our ongoing business. In recent years, our stock repurchase program has more than offset the dilutive effect of our stock option and restricted stock unit programs; however, we may reduce the level of our stock repurchases in the future as we may use our available cash for other purposes. Options and restricted stock units activity from 2008 through 2010 is summarized as follows (shares in millions): Options and restricted stock units outstanding at December 31, 2007 19.6 Options and restricted stock units granted from 2008 through 2010 8.7 Options exercised and restricted stock units settled from 2008 through 2010 (11.8 ) Forfeitures, cancellations and expiration from 2008 through 2010 (10.6 ) Dividend equivalent restricted stock units issued in 2010 0.2 Options and restricted stock units outstanding at December 31, 2010 6.1 Average annualized options and restricted stock units granted, net of forfeitures (0.6 ) Average annualized stock repurchases 22.3 Shares outstanding at December 31, 2010 172.7 Basic weighted average shares outstanding from 2008 through 2010 188.9 Options and restricted stock units outstanding as a percent of shares outstanding at December 31, 2010 3.5% In the money options and restricted stock units outstanding (based on our December 31, 2010 stock price) as a percent of shares outstanding at December 31, 2010 3.2% Weighted average annualized options and restricted stock units granted, net of forfeitures and before stock repurchases, as a percent of weighted average shares outstanding from 2008 through 2010 (0.3%) Weighted average annualized options and restricted stock units granted, net of forfeitures and after stock repurchases, as a percent of weighted average shares outstanding from 2008 through 2010 (12.1% ) Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1, Basis of Presentation, Recent Accounting Pronouncements, of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Form 10 K. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK We are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and market risks. We have not entered into any market risk sensitive instruments for trading purposes. Interest rate sensitivity We invest in a variety of securities, including money market funds, debt securities issued by the U.S. Treasury and other U.S. government corporations and agencies, corporate debt securities, and debt securities issued by foreign governments. The primary objective of our short term investment management activities is to preserve principal with the additional goals of maintaining appropriate liquidity and earning an after tax return commensurate with the risks associated in each portfolio. We manage our interest rate risk by maintaining an investment portfolio generally consisting of debt instruments of high credit quality. We monitor our interest rate and credit risks, including our credit exposures to specific rating categories and to individual issuers. We invest in investment grade marketable fixed income securities. 57 Table of Contents In general, money market funds are not considered to be subject to interest rate risk because the interest paid on such funds fluctuates with the prevailing interest rate. Notwithstanding our efforts to manage interest rate risks, there can be no assurance that we will be adequately protected against risks associated with interest rate fluctuations. At any time, a sharp change in interest rates could have a significant impact on the fair value of our investment portfolio. The following table presents the hypothetical changes in fair value of our fixed income securities in our short term investment portfolio as of December 31, 2010, arising from potential changes in interest rates. The modeling technique estimates the change in fair value from immediate hypothetical parallel shifts in the yield curve of plus or minus 50 basis points (BPS), 100 BPS, and 150 BPS. Valuation of Securities Given anInterest Rate Decrease of X BasisPoints Fair ValueAs ofDecember 31,2010 Valuation of Securities Given anInterest Rate Increase of X BasisPoints (150 BPS) (100 BPS) (50 BPS) 50 BPS 100 BPS 150 BPS (In thousands) Fixed income securities $ 518,716 $ 514,323 $ 509,931 $ 505,538 $ 501,146 $ 496,753 $ 492,361 Foreign exchange risk management We conduct business throughout the world and transact in multiple foreign currencies. Our foreign currency risk management program is designed to mitigate foreign exchange risks associated with the monetary and non monetary assets and liabilities of our operations that are denominated in non functional currencies. The primary objective of this program is to minimize the gains and losses to income resulting from fluctuations in exchange rates. We may choose not to hedge certain foreign exchange exposures due to immateriality, prohibitive economic cost of hedging particular exposures, and limited availability of appropriate hedging instruments. We do not enter into foreign currency transactions for trading or speculative purposes, nor do we hedge foreign currency exposures in a manner that entirely offsets the effects of changes in exchange rates. The program may entail the use of forward or option contracts and in each case these contracts are limited to a duration of less than 12 months. Our foreign currency forward contracts are usually placed and adjusted monthly. These foreign currency forward contracts are derivatives and are recorded at fair market value. We attempt to limit our exposure to credit risk by executing foreign exchange contracts with financial institutions that have investment grade ratings. As of December 31, 2010, we held foreign currency forward contracts in notional amounts totaling $50.7 million to mitigate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations associated with certain foreign currencies. A hypothetical uniform 10% strengthening or weakening in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the foreign currency derivatives outstanding would result in a decrease/increase in income of approximately $4.9 million. However, this would be largely offset by the remeasurement of our foreign currency denominated monetary and non monetary assets and liabilities resulting in an insignificant net impact to income. A hypothetical uniform 10% strengthening or weakening in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the foreign currencies in which our revenues and expenses are denominated would not result in a significant impact to our financial statements. There are inherent limitations in the sensitivity analysis presented, due primarily to the assumption that foreign exchange rate movements are linear and instantaneous. As a result, the analysis is unable to reflect the potential effects of more complex market changes that could arise, which may positively or negatively affect income. 58 Table of Contents Market risk management The fair market value of our Convertible Debentures is subject to interest rate risk and market risk due to the convertible feature of the debentures. Generally, the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. The fair market value of the Convertible Debentures will also increase as the market price of our stock increases and decrease as the market price of our common stock falls. The interest and market value changes affect the fair market value of the Convertible Debentures but do not impact our financial position, cash flows or results of operations. As of December 31, 2010, the fair value of the Convertible Debentures was approximately $1.4 billion, based on quoted market prices. The fair market value of the contingent interest derivative on Convertible Debentures is also subject to interest rate risk and market risk. Generally, the fair market value of the contingent interest derivative will change due to changes in interest rates as well as due to changes in the fair market value of the Convertible Debentures. 59 Table of Contents 
 
