FILE:OMC/OMC-8K-20060324190843.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
   
        Check the appropriate box if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
        On March 24, 2006, Omnicom Group Inc., together with its wholly owned direct finance subsidiaries, Omnicom Capital Inc. and Omnicom Finance Inc., announced the pricing of their public offering of $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of senior notes. The transaction is expected to close on March 29, 2006.
        A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference in its entirety.
        The foregoing information (including the exhibit hereto) is being furnished under "Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure." Such information (including the exhibit hereto) shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
        The filing of this Report and the furnishing of this information pursuant to Item 7.01 do not mean that such information is material or that disclosure of such information is required.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: March 24, 2006
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Omnicom Group Inc. (NYSE: OMC ), together with its wholly owned direct finance subsidiaries, Omnicom Capital Inc. and Omnicom Finance Inc., today announced the pricing of their public offering of $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of senior notes. The transaction is expected to close on March 29, 2006. The issuers intend to use the net proceeds from the offering for general corporate purposes.
NEW YORK, March 24, 2006
The notes will bear interest at a rate of 5.90 percent per annum, will be the joint and several unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of Omnicom Group Inc., Omnicom Capital Inc. and Omnicom Finance Inc., and will rank equal in right of payment to all of their respective existing and future unsecured senior indebtedness.
The notes will be issued under an automatic shelf registration statement relating to senior debt securities. The notes will not be listed on any securities exchange. Copies of the prospectus supplement and prospectus relating to the offer and sale of the notes may be obtained for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at www.sec.gov. Alternatively, the issuers, any underwriter or any dealer participating in the offering will arrange to send you the prospectus if you request it by calling Citigroup Corporate and Investment Banking toll-free at 1-877-858-5407.
Omnicom Group Inc. (www.omnicomgroup.com) is a leading global marketing and corporate communications company. Omnicom's branded networks and numerous specialty firms provide advertising, strategic media planning and buying, direct and promotional marketing, public relations and other specialty communications services to over 5,000 clients in more than 100 countries.


