FILE:OMC/OMC-8K-20081023192552.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
Item 8.01. Other Events.
Attached as Exhibit 100 to this Current Report on Form 8-K are the following documents from Omnicom Group Inc's. Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2008, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 23, 2008, formatted in Extensible Business Reporting Language ("XBRL"): (i) the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets; (ii) the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income; and, (iii) the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.
Users of this data are advised pursuant to Rule 401 of Regulation S-T that the financial and other information contained in the XBRL documents is unaudited and these documents are not the official publicly filed financial statements of Omnicom Group Inc. The purpose of submitting these XBRL formatted documents is to test the related format and technology and, as a result, investors should continue to rely on the official filed versions of all financial documents and not rely on the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 100, in making any investment decisions.
In accordance with Rule 402 of Regulation S-T, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 100, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 11 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, (the "Securities Act") or Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of those sections, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) .
Exhibits
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: October 23, 2008








