FILE:OMC/OMC-8K-20080707171619.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
|_| Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
|_| Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
|_| Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
|_| Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(e) Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
On June 30, 2008, the Compensation Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors of Omnicom Group Inc. ("Omnicom"), pursuant to Omnicom's 2007 Incentive Award Plan (the "Plan"), awarded to Mr. Thomas L. Harrison, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Diversified Agency Services ("DAS"), restricted stock units and adopted a Form of Grant Notice and Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (the "RSU Agreement"), which will govern the award of restricted stock units to Mr. Harrison. In addition, the Committee adopted (i) a Form of Grant Notice and Option Agreement (the "Option Agreement") and (ii) a Form of Grant Notice and Restricted Stock Agreement (the "Restricted Stock Agreement"). Each of the foregoing forms contain the terms and conditions that are expected to govern specified incentive awards made from time to time under the Plan, unless the award agreements are modified pursuant to the terms of the Plan.
Option Agreement
The Option Agreement provides for the vesting of stock options over a period of three years from the grant date with 30% vesting on each of the first two anniversaries of the grant date and 40% vesting on the third anniversary, though the Committee has the ability to change the vesting provisions for any particular stock option. It also provides that stock options becomes fully vested and exercisable for the remainder of the term upon an optionee's death and become partially vested upon an optionee's termination due to disability. Stock options have an initial term of ten years from the date of grant though they are forfeited in the event of termination of an optionee's employment for any reason other than the reasons specified above. An optionee has no rights as a shareholder with respect to the shares of our common stock underlying the stock option until the stock option is validly exercised. All stock options are subject to transfer restrictions until exercise and optionees are subject to restrictions in connection with the protection of intellectual property and confidential information and restrictions on soliciting or servicing certain clients and soliciting or hiring certain employees during employment and thereafter.
The foregoing description of the Option Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Option Agreement, a copy of which is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.
Restricted Stock Agreement
The Restricted Stock Agreement provides for the vesting of restricted stock over five years from the grant date with 20% vesting on each anniversary of the grant date, though the Committee has the ability to change the vesting provisions for any particular restricted stock award. In addition, the restricted stock becomes fully vested upon a holder's death and partially vested upon a holder's termination due to disability. Unvested shares of restricted stock are forfeited in the event of termination of a holder's employment for any reason other than the reasons specified above. A holder of restricted stock will have all the rights of a shareholder with respect to the restricted stock, including the right to receive all dividends and other distributions paid with respect to our common stock and voting rights. However, dividends and distributions paid in shares of our common stock will be subject to the same vesting provisions as the related restricted stock. Restricted stock is subject to transfer restrictions until vesting and holders are subject to restrictions in connection with the protection of intellectual property and confidential information and restrictions on soliciting or servicing certain clients and soliciting or hiring certain employees during employment and thereafter.
The foregoing description of the Restricted Stock Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Restricted Stock Agreement, a copy of which is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.2 and is incorporated by reference herein.
RSU Agreement
The RSU Agreement provides for the vesting of restricted stock units over five years from the grant date with 20% vesting on each anniversary of the grant date, though Committee has the ability to change the vesting provisions for any particular restricted stock unit award. In addition, the restricted stock units become fully vested upon a holder's death and partially vested upon a holder's termination due to disability. Unvested restricted stock units are forfeited in the event of termination of a holder's employment for any reason other than the reasons specified above. Once a restricted stock unit vests, the related underlying shares of our common stock are distributed to the holder. A holder of restricted stock units will have no rights as a shareholder until the underlying shares of our common stock are distributed from the restricted stock unit. However, holders of restricted stock units will have the right to receive dividend equivalents with respect to such restricted stock units though dividend equivalents paid in shares of our common stock will be subject to the same vesting provisions as the related restricted stock units. All restricted stock units are subject to transfer restrictions until they vest and holders are subject to restrictions in connection with the protection of intellectual property and confidential information and restrictions on soliciting or servicing certain clients and soliciting or hiring certain employees during employment and thereafter.
The foregoing description of the RSU Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the RSU Agreement, a copy of which is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.3 and is incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
Exhibits.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: July 7, 2008

     Unless otherwise defined herein, the terms defined in the Omnicom Group Inc. 2007 Incentive Award Plan (the "") shall have the same defined meanings in this Grant Notice (the "") and the Option Agreement attached as Exhibit A to this Grant Notice (collectively, the "").
Plan
Grant Notice
Agreement
     You have been granted an award of an Option to purchase shares of Stock, subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Agreement.
     Your signature below, which may be accomplished through electronic means approved by Omnicom, indicates your agreement and understanding that the Options are subject to all of the terms and conditions contained in this Agreement, including the Grant Notice, the Option Agreement attached as Exhibit A to this Grant Notice, the Plan and the restrictive covenants set forth in Section 6 of Exhibit A.
ACCORDINGLY, PLEASE BE SURE TO READ ALL OF EXHIBIT A, WHICH CONTAINS THE SPECIFIC TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THE OPTION.
     , dated as of (this ""), by and between , a New York corporation (""), and ___________________ (the "").
OPTION AGREEMENT
________
Agreement
Omnicom Group Inc.
Omnicom
Employee
     , Omnicom has implemented the 2007 Incentive Award Plan, as amended, restated or otherwise modified from time to time (the ""); and
WHEREAS
Plan
     , capitalized terms used in this Agreement without definition shall have the meanings ascribed in the Plan.
WHEREAS
     , in consideration of the foregoing and of the mutual covenants and agreements contained herein, and as an inducement to the Employee to continue as an employee of the Company and to promote the success of the business of the Company, the parties hereto agree as follows:
NOW THEREFORE
     1. . Effective as of the Grant Date Omnicom hereby grants to the Employee, and the Employee hereby accepts, an award of an Option to purchase that number of shares of Stock and at the price per share of Stock (the "") set forth in the Grant Notice, subject to the terms of the Plan and this Agreement. The Option is a Non-Qualified Stock Option and is not an Incentive Stock Option. Shares of Stock acquired upon exercise of the Option (in whole or in part) are referred to herein as the "."
Grant
Option Price
Option Shares
     2. . The Employee shall have no rights as a shareholder with respect to an Option or any Option Shares unless and until shares evidencing such Option Shares have been transferred into the Employee's brokerage account or participant trust (the "") maintained with the administrator of the Plan ("") or, at Omnicom's sole discretion, stock certificate(s) evidencing such Option Shares have been issued to the Employee. Except as the Committee may determine, no adjustments shall be made for dividends or other distributions for which the record date is prior to the date of transfer of shares evidencing Option Shares into the Employee's Brokerage Account or the date of issuance of such stock certificate(s) to the Employee, as applicable.
Rights as a Shareholder
Employee's Brokerage Account
Omnicom's Agent
     3. .
Vesting and Forfeiture; Manner of Exercise
     a) The Option shall not be exercisable after the tenth anniversary of the Grant Date. The Employee shall vest in the Option and the Option shall become exercisable in accordance with the vesting schedule set forth in the Grant Notice; subject to paragraph (b) belowThe Employee shall not have the right to exercise the Option until the date the applicable portion of the Option becomes vested and exercisable. The ability to exercise shall be cumulative and shall apply to any Option (or portion thereof) not previously exercised until the cancellation or termination of the Option.
.
     b) Subject to Article 11 of the Plan, in the event of a Termination of Employment, to the extent not exercised prior thereto, the Option shall automatically be cancelled and shall be of no further force or effect, except that:
     (i) In the event of a Termination of Employment prior to a Vesting Date by reason of the death of the Employee, the Option shall immediately become vested and exercisable in full on the Termination Date and shall remain exercisable until the tenth anniversary of the Grant Date; and
     (ii) In the event of a Termination of Employment prior to a Vesting Date by reason of the Disability of the Employee, a portion of the Option shall immediately become vested and exercisable on the Termination Date and shall remain exercisable until the tenth anniversary of the Grant Date, such portion (rounded up to the nearest full Option Share) to be equal to the sum for each remaining Vesting Date of (x) the total number of Option Shares for which the Option would become exercisable on such Vesting Date multiplied by (y) a fraction, (A) the numerator of which shall be the number of full calendar months between the Grant Date and the Termination Date and (B) the denominator of which shall be the number of full calendar months between the Grant Date and such Vesting Date.
     c) The Employee acknowledges that upon a Change in Control prior to a Vesting Date, Article 11 of the Plan shall govern.
     d) The exercise of the Option shall be governed by the terms of this Agreement and the terms of the Plan, including, without limitation, the provisions of Article V of the Plan.
     e) Any exercisable portion of the Option or the entire Option, if then wholly exercisable, may be exercised in whole or in part at any time prior to the time when the Option or portion thereof becomes unexercisable.
     f) The Option may be exercised, in whole or in part, by contacting Omnicom's Agent either online or by telephone and giving notice (the "") of the manner by which the Employee desires to exercise the Option. The date that the Notice is given to Omnicom's Agent (or the date that the Omnicom Notice is given to Omnicom, as provided in paragraph (g) below) shall be the "" of such Option. The Employee is responsible for (i) the full payment of the Option Price with respect to the portion of the Option being exercised and (ii) the full payment of any amounts required to be withheld pursuant to applicable federal state and local income tax laws in connection with such exercise (the ""). To the extent permitted by law or the applicable listing rules, if any, the Employee may elect in the Notice to pay the Option Price and the Withholding Amounts: (i) in cash, (ii) with the consent of the Committee and subject to such terms and conditions as Omnicom's Agent may impose, by delivering shares of Stock, duly endorsed for transfer to Omnicom, having a Fair Market Value on the Date of Exercise equal to that portion of the Option Price and Withholding Amounts being paid by delivery of such shares, (iii) through a combination of cash and shares of Stock as so valued, or (iv) by a cashless exercise by authorizing Omnicom's Agent to sell Option Shares and remit to Omnicom a sufficient portion of the sale proceeds to pay the Option Price and Withholding Amounts.
Notice
Date of Exercise
Withholding Amounts
     g) Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that there is no Omnicom Agent, the Option may be exercised, in whole or in part, by the delivery to Omnicom of written notice of such
exercise (the "") accompanied by (i) full payment of the Option Price with respect to that portion of the Option being exercised, and (ii) full payment of any Withholding Amounts. To the extent permitted by law or the applicable listing rules, if any, the Employee may elect in the Omnicom Notice to pay the Option Price and the Withholding Amounts: (i) in cash, or (ii) with the consent of the Committee and subject to such terms and conditions as Omnicom may impose, by delivering to Omnicom shares of Stock, duly endorsed for transfer to Omnicom, having a Fair Market Value on the Date of Exercise equal to that portion of the Option Price and Withholding Amounts being paid by delivery of such shares.
Omnicom Notice
     4. . For purposes of this Agreement, the terms set forth below shall have the following meanings:
Definitions
     a) "" of Omnicom or the Company, as the case may be, shall mean any person, firm, corporation or other form of entity that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, or is controlled by, or is under common control with Omnicom or the Company, as the case may be as determined by Omnicom.
Affiliate
     b) "" shall mean any person, firm, corporation or other form of entity to whom any member of the Group (i) rendered services at any time during the Employment Period or (ii) had made a Pitch at any time during the Employment Period, or the six months immediately following, the Termination Date.
Client
     c) "" means the Omnicom Affiliate by whom the Employee is employed as of the date of this Agreement and each other Omnicom Affiliate by whom the Employee is employed at any time during the Employment Period notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary.
Company
     d) "" means the Employee set forth in the Grant Notice.
Employee
     e) "" means the period that the Employee is employed by any member of the Group.
Employment Period
      f) "" means the Grant Date set forth in the Grant Notice.
Grant Date
     g) "" means (i) if the Company operates within an Omnicom network, all of the companies, group of companies and divisions operating under a global or national brand of such Omnicom network, and (ii) if the Company operates as part of a division or separate company independent of an Omnicom network, all companies and divisions operating under such independent brand.
Group
     h) "" means a new business presentation or similar offering of services; provided, however, a general mailing or an incidental contact shall not be deemed a Pitch.
Pitch
     i) "" shall mean any person, firm, corporation or other form of entity to whom any member of the Group (i) rendered services at any time during the one-year period prior to the Termination Date, or (ii) had made a Pitch at any time during the one-year period immediately preceding, or the six months immediately following, the Termination Date.
Restricted Client
     j) "" means the date on which the Termination of Employment occurs.
Termination Date
     k) "" means the time when the Employee is no longer employed by any Omnicom Affiliate for any reason whatsoever, as determined by Omnicom or an Omnicom Affiliate.
Termination of Employment
     5. . No right or interest of the Employee in the Option may be pledged, encumbered, or hypothecated to or in favor of any party other than Omnicom or an Omnicom Affiliate, or shall be subject to any lien, obligation, or liability of the Employee to any other party other than Omnicom or an Omnicom Affiliate. The Option shall not be assigned, transferred, or otherwise disposed of by the Employee other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution or pursuant to beneficiary designation procedures approved from time to time by the Committee. Notwithstanding the foregoing, to the extent and under such terms and conditions as determined by the Committee, the Employee may assign or transfer the Option (each transferee thereof, a "") (i) to the Employee's spouse, children or grandchildren (including any adopted and step children or grandchildren), parents, grandparents or siblings, (ii) to a trust for the benefit of the Employee and/or one or more of the Persons referred to in clause (i), (iii) to a partnership, limited liability company or corporation in which the Employee or the Persons referred to in clause (i) are the only partners, members or shareholders or (iv) for charitable donations; provided, however, that such Permitted Assignee shall be bound by and subject to all of the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Agreement relating to the transferred Option and shall execute an agreement satisfactory to Omnicom evidencing such obligations; and provided further that the Employee shall remain bound by the terms and conditions of the Plan.
Nontransferability
Permitted Assignee
     6.
Non-Solicitation/Non-Servicing and Protection of Confidential Information Agreement.
     a) In consideration for and in order to be eligible to receive the voluntary grant of the Option provided in this Agreement, except on behalf of a member of the Group, the Employee will not, as an individual, employee, consultant, independent contractor, partner, shareholder, member or in association with any other person, firm, corporation or other form of entity, directly or indirectly, and regardless of the Employee continuing to be employed by a member of the Group or the reason for the Employee ceasing to be so employed by any member of the Group:
     (i) during the Employment Period, directly or indirectly, solicit business on behalf of, render any services to, engage in, or have any ownership interests or other affiliation in, any business or other endeavor, which is engaged in the business of the same nature as or competitive with any member of the Group; provided, however, that nothing contained in this clause (i) shall be deemed to prevent the undersigned from owning less than  of 1% of the shares of any publicly held corporation engaged in any such business;
     (ii) if either (A) any portion of the Option has vested under this Agreement or (B) a voluntary Termination of Employment occurs, then for a one-year period following the Termination Date, solicit, render services to or for, or accept from, any Restricted Client, any business of the type performed by any member of the Group for such Restricted Client or persuade or attempt in any manner to persuade any Restricted Client to cease to do business or to reduce the amount of business which any such Restricted Client has customarily done or is reasonably expected to do with members of the Group; , , that solely with respect to this Section 6(a)(ii), the definition of
provided
however
Restricted Client shall be limited to the particular product, brand or service of such Restricted Client in respect of which at any time during the one-year period prior to the Termination Date, the Employee (A) had a servicing relationship, supervisory responsibility or other involvement, or (B) participated in, supervised or had any responsibility or other involvement in a Pitch; and
     (iii) if either (A) any portion of the Option has vested under this Agreement or (B) a voluntary Termination of Employment occurs, then for a one-year period following the Termination Date, employ as an employee or retain as a consultant any person, firm, corporation or other form of entity who is then or at any time during the one-year period prior to the Termination Date was, an employee of or exclusive consultant to a member of the Group, or persuade or attempt to persuade any employee of or exclusive consultant to a member of the Group to leave the employ of such member of the Group or to become employed as an employee or retained as a consultant by any other person, firm, corporation or other form of entity; , , a solicitation pursuant to general recruitment advertising that is not directed at the employees or exclusive consultants of any member of the Group shall not be deemed to be a breach of this provision.
provided
however
     b) As a professional in a highly service-oriented and creative business, the Employee understands and agrees that his/her position with the Company requires and will continue to require services which are of a special character and which places him/her in a position of confidence and trust with the Clients and employees of members of the Group. The Employee further acknowledges that his/her services to the Clients necessarily require that the Employee have access to Confidential Information (as defined below) of members of the Group and their respective Clients and that, in the course of his/her employment with or rendering of services to the Company, the Employee will develop personal relationships with the Clients and knowledge of those Clients' affairs and requirements. Accordingly, the Employee acknowledges that the type and periods of restrictions imposed in this Agreement are fair and reasonable and are reasonably required in order to protect and maintain the proprietary interests of the members of the Group, other legitimate business interests of members of the Group, and the goodwill associated with the members of the Group. The Employee further understands and agrees that the Restricted Clients may be serviced from any location and accordingly it is reasonable that the covenants set forth herein are not limited by narrow geographic area but generally by the location of such Restricted Clients. In the event that any covenant contained in this Agreement shall be determined by any court or other tribunal of competent jurisdiction to be unenforceable by reason of its extending for too great a period of time or over too great a geographical area or by reason of its being too extensive in any other respect, (i) such covenant shall be interpreted to extend only over the maximum period of time for which it may be enforceable and/or over the maximum geographical area as to which it may be enforceable and/or to the maximum extent in all other respects as to which it may be enforceable, all as determined by such court or other tribunal making such determination, and (ii) in its reduced form, such covenant shall then be enforceable, but such reduced form of covenant shall only apply with respect to the operation of such covenant in the particular jurisdiction in or for which such adjudication is made.
     c) The Employee hereby acknowledges and agrees that for so long as the Employee has been employed by the Company (which term, as used in this Section 6(c) and Section 6(d) shall be deemed to include any Affiliate of the Company), the Employee has acquired and will continue to acquire and have access to confidential or proprietary information about the Company and/or its Clients, including but not limited to, trade secrets, methods, models, passwords, access to computer files,
financial information and records, computer software programs, agreements and/or contracts between the Company and its Clients, Client contacts, creative policies and ideas, advertising campaigns, public relations campaigns, creative and media materials, graphic design, budgets, practices, concepts, strategies, methods of operation, financial or business projections of the Company, and information about or received from its Clients (collectively, ""). Accordingly, in consideration for and in order to be eligible to receive the voluntary grant of the Option provided in this Agreement, for so long as the Employee is employed by a member of the Group and thereafter, the Employee will retain in strictest confidence all Confidential Information and shall not disclose any such Confidential Information to anyone outside the members of the Group and Omnicom, except in the course of the Employee's duties for the Company or with Omnicom's express written consent. The Employee hereby acknowledges that he/she is aware that such Confidential Information is not readily available to the public, and agrees that he/she will not at any time utilize such Confidential Information for his/her own benefit or for the benefit of third parties.
Confidential Information
     d) The Employee hereby acknowledges and agrees that all materials created or modified by the Employee for so long as the Employee is employed by the Company, including, without limitation, all works of authorship, inventions, processes, ideas, methods, concepts and other tangible and intangible materials (collectively, ""), shall be "work for hire" and that the Company and/or Omnicom shall be the exclusive owner of the Work Product and all intellectual property rights associated with the Work Product, including all trademarks, patents or copyrights contained therein. To the extent any Work Product does not qualify as "work for hire", the Employee hereby assigns ownership of all such Work Product to the Company and/or Omnicom and agrees to take all reasonable measures, at the Company's expense, to perfect such rights in the Company and/or Omnicom. The Employee hereby appoints the Company and/or Omnicom as his/her attorney-in-fact with the limited power to execute assignments of such Work Product. If the Employee is an employee in the State of California, the parties hereto agree and acknowledge that the terms of this paragraph shall be subject to the terms of Section 2870 of the California Labor Code, a copy of which is annexed to this Agreement. The Employee hereby agrees to advise the Company and/or Omnicom promptly in writing of any inventions that he/she believes meet the criteria set forth in Section 2870.
Work Product
     e) Each of the covenants and agreements contained in this Section 6 (collectively, the "") is separate, distinct and severable. All rights, remedies and benefits expressly provided for in this Section 6 are cumulative and are not exclusive of any rights, remedies or benefits provided for by law, in this Section 6 or otherwise, and the exercise of any remedy by a party hereto shall not be deemed an election to the exclusion of any other remedy (any such claim by the other party being hereby waived). The provisions of this Section 6 are not in lieu of, but are in addition to the continuing obligations of the Employee (which the Employee hereby acknowledges) to not use or disclose Confidential Information known to the Employee until any particular piece of Confidential Information becomes generally known to the public (through no action of the Employee), whereupon the restriction on use and disclosure shall cease as to that particular item. The existence of any claim, demand, action or cause of action that the Employee may have against Omnicom or any of its Affiliates, whether predicated pursuant to this Section 6 or otherwise, shall not constitute a defense to the enforcement of the provisions of this Section 6 or any other provision or provisions of this Agreement. The covenants contained in this Section 6 for the benefit of Omnicom and the members of the Group, shall survive any termination of this Agreement and may be waived in whole or in part by Omnicom without the consent of any other person, firm, corporation or other form of entity. The temporal duration of the Protective Covenants shall not expire, and shall be tolled, during any period in which the Employee is in violation of any of such Protective Covenants, and all such Protective Covenants shall
Protective Covenants
automatically be extended by the period of such violation. The Employee further acknowledges that he/she is a highly regarded employee who considered the terms and conditions upon which he/she is electing to be granted the Option and that he/she has been advised and has had the opportunity to obtain counsel of his/her choice in connection with reviewing and executing this Agreement.
     f) By acceptance of the grant of the Option, the Employee agrees that if the Employee were, without authority, to use or disclose Confidential Information, or otherwise breach any of the Protective Covenants, or threaten to do so, in addition to all other available remedies (including without limitation seeking such damages as it can show it has sustained by reason of such breach), (i) Omnicom and/or any member of the Group shall be entitled to specific performance and injunctive and other appropriate relief (without being required to post bond or other security and without having to prove the inadequacy of the available remedies at law) to prevent the Employee from doing so, and/or (ii) Omnicom (by action of the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, President, Chief Financial Officer or General Counsel of Omnicom) may cause any or all of the following actions to occur: (x) the Option granted hereunder shall become void, shall be forfeited and shall terminate effective the date on which the Employee entered into such activity, (y) any shares of Stock acquired by the Employee pursuant to the exercise of the Option granted hereunder shall be forfeited and returned to Omnicom, and (z) any gain realized by the Employee from the sale or transfer of shares of Stock acquired through the exercise of the Option granted hereunder, shall be returned by the Employee to Omnicom. The Employee acknowledges that the harm caused to Omnicom and/or members of the Group by the breach or anticipated breach of this Agreement is by its nature irreparable because, among other things, it is not readily susceptible of proof as to the monetary harm that would ensue. The Employee consents that any interim or final equitable relief entered by a court of competent jurisdiction shall, at the request of Omnicom and/or a member of the Group be entered on consent and enforced by any court having jurisdiction over the Employee, without prejudice to any rights either party may have to appeal from the proceedings that resulted in any grant of such relief.
     g) During the Employment Period and the one-year period after the Termination Date, prior to accepting employment with any subsequent employer, the Employee shall notify any prospective employer in writing of his/her obligations under this Agreement. In addition, immediately after accepting employment with a subsequent employer, the Employee shall provide Omnicom with a copy of the notice that was sent by him/her to such subsequent employer.
     h) The Employee acknowledges and agrees that if Employee has received an equity award (including any restricted stock, restricted stock unit or stock option award) from Omnicom during or after 2005 pursuant to the Plan or any other current or former equity plan of Omnicom, the Employee has previously agreed to restrictions similar to those set forth in this Section 6 (the "") and such Prior Restrictions shall remain in full force and effect and shall be in addition to the Employee's obligations under this Section 6.
Prior Restrictions
     7. . The Employee hereby represents and covenants that (a) the Option Shares will be acquired for investment and not with a view to the distribution thereof within the meaning of the Securities Act, unless such acquisition has been registered under the Securities Act and any applicable state securities law; and (b) any subsequent sale of any such Option Shares, unless their acquisition had been so registered, shall be made either pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act and any applicable state securities laws, or pursuant to an exemption from registration under the Securities Act and such state securities laws.
Investment Representation and Compliance With Applicable Law
     8. . Nothing in the Plan, in the grant of the Option or in this Agreement shall constitute or be evidence of any understanding, express or implied, on the part of the Company, Omnicom or any Omnicom Affiliate to employ the Employee for any period or shall interfere with or restrict in any way the rights of the Company, Omnicom and the Omnicom Affiliates to discharge the Employee at any time for any reason whatsoever, with or without cause
No Understandings as to Employment
.
     9. . The Employee accepts the grant of the Option herein subject to all of the provisions of the Plan, which are incorporated into this Agreement, including the provisions that authorize the Committee to administer and interpret the Plan and which provide that the Committee's decisions, determinations and interpretations with respect to the Plan are final and conclusive on all persons affected hereby. In the event of a conflict between the provisions of this Agreement and the provisions of the Plan, the provisions of the Plan shall govern. Terms not otherwise defined in this Agreement shall have the meanings ascribed in the Plan.
Plan Incorporated
     10. . The Option may be wholly or partially amended or otherwise modified, suspended or terminated at any time or from time to time by the Board or the Committee, provided that, except as provided by Article 11 of the Plan, neither the amendment, modification, suspension nor termination of this Agreement shall, without the consent of the Employee, adversely alter or impair any rights or obligations of the Employee under this Agreement with respect to the Option in any material way.
Amendment
     11. The parties hereto agree that Omnicom shall have the right to assign this Agreement, and accordingly, this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, and may be enforced by, any and all successors and assigns of Omnicom, including, without limitation, by asset assignment, stock sale, merger, consolidation or other corporate reorganization. Subject to Section 5, the Employee agrees that his/her obligations under this Agreement are personal to him/her, and the Employee shall not have the right to assign or otherwise transfer his/her obligations hereunder. Any purported assignment or transfer by the Employee shall be void and ineffective.
Assignment
.
     12. . The interpretation and construction of this Agreement, and all matters relating hereto (including, without limitation, the validity or enforcement of this Agreement), shall be governed by the laws of New York without regard to any conflicts or choice of laws provisions of the State of New York that would result in the application of the law of any other jurisdiction.
Governing Law
     13. . Any notice to be given to Omnicom under the terms of this Agreement shall be addressed to the Office of the General Counsel of Omnicom at 437 Madison Avenue, New York, New York 10022, and any notice to be given to the Employee shall be addressed to the Employee at the address set forth beneath his or her signature hereto, or at such other address for a party as such party may hereafter designate in writing to the other. Any such notice shall be deemed to have been duly given if mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as aforesaid.
Notice
     14. . All section titles and captions in this Agreement are for convenience only, shall not be deemed part of this Agreement, and in no way shall define, limit, extend or describe the scope or intent of any provisions of this Agreement.
Headings
     15. . The parties shall execute all documents, provide all information, and take or refrain from taking all actions as may be reasonably necessary or appropriate to achieve the purposes of this Agreement. The Employee acknowledges that any sale of Option Shares
Further Assurances
following the date of vesting shall be further evidence of Employee's acceptance of the terms of this Agreement, including Section 6 of this Agreement.
     16. . This Agreement, including the Grant Notice and this Option Agreement attached as Exhibit A to the Grant Notice, subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, constitute the entire agreement among the parties hereto pertaining to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all prior agreements and understandings pertaining thereto. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any other confidentiality agreement, non-solicitation/non-servicing agreement or any other type of restrictive covenant agreement that the Employee has entered into prior to the date hereof or may enter into after the date hereof with Omnicom or one of its Affiliates shall remain in full force and effect. No oral understandings, oral statements, oral promises or oral inducements between the parties hereto relating to this Agreement exist. No representations, warranties, covenants or conditions, express or implied, whether by statute or otherwise, other than as set forth in this Agreement, have been made by the parties hereto.
Entire Agreement
     17. . No failure by any party to insist upon the strict performance of any covenant, duty, agreement or condition of this Agreement or to exercise any right or remedy consequent upon a breach thereof shall constitute waiver of any such breach or any other covenant, duty, agreement or condition.
Remedies
     18. . The Employee acknowledges and agrees that the Employee's acceptance of the terms of this Agreement through electronic means shall have the same force and effect as an acceptance made in writing. This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, or by facsimile transmission, each of which shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Acceptance; Counterparts
     19. . By signing and returning this Agreement, the Employee agrees that the Employee's rights in respect of the Option and the underlying Option Shares (including upon Termination of Employment) shall be defined solely by the Plan and the provisions of this Agreement. Accordingly, the Employee waives all other claims he/she may have against Omnicom or any of its Affiliates, and their respective officers, directors, agents and employees for any losses or damages arising out of the forfeiture of the Option and/or any Option Shares as a result of such Termination of Employment, or otherwise in relation to the Plan with respect to such Option and/or Option Shares.
Waiver
     20. . Nothing in this Agreement is intended to confer upon any other person except the Employee, Omnicom and the Affiliates of Omnicom, any rights or remedies hereunder or shall create any third party beneficiary rights in any person (other than Affiliates of Omnicom).
Third Party Beneficiaries
     21. . The language used in this Agreement will be deemed to be the language chosen by the parties hereto to express their mutual intent, and no rule of law or contract interpretation that provides that in the case of ambiguity or uncertainty a provision should be construed against the draftsman will be applied against any party hereto. The provisions of this Agreement shall be construed according to their fair meaning and neither for nor against any party hereto irrespective of which party caused such provisions to be drafted.
No Strict Construction
     22. The Committee shall have the power to interpret the Plan and this Agreement and to adopt such rules for the administration, interpretation and application of the Plan as are consistent therewith and to interpret or revoke any such rules. All actions taken and all
Committee Authority
.
interpretations and determinations made by the Committee in good faith shall be final and binding upon the Employee, Omnicom and all other interested persons. No member of the Committee shall be personally liable for any action, determination or interpretation made in good faith with respect to the Plan or this Agreement.
     23. . In the event that any provision in this Agreement is held invalid or unenforceable, such provision shall be severable from, and such invalidity or unenforceability shall not be construed to have any effect on, the remaining provisions of this Agreement.
Agreement Severable
     24.
Employee Data Privacy
.
     a) The Employee hereby explicitly and unambiguously consents to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of the Employee's personal data as described in this document by Omnicom and/or the Company for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Employee's participation in the Plan.
     b) The Employee understands that Omnicom and/or the Company hold certain personal information, including, but not limited to, name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any Shares or directorships held in the Company or any of its Affiliates, details of all entitlement to this Option and Option Shares awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in the Employee's favor (""), for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan.
Data
     c) The Employee understands that Data may be transferred to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, that these recipients may be located in the Employee's country or elsewhere, and that the recipient's country may have different data privacy laws and protections than the Employee's country. The Employee understands that the Employee may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting the Employee's local human resources representative.
     d) The Employee authorizes the recipients to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing the Employee's participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data as may be required to a broker or other third party. The Employee understands that Data shall be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage the Employee's participation in the Plan. The Employee understands that the Employee may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case without cost, by contacting in writing the Employee's local human resources representative. The Employee understands, however, that refusing or withdrawing consent may affect the Employee's ability to participate in the Plan. For more information on the consequences of the refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, the Employee understands that the Employee may contact the Employee's local human resources representative.
Annex I
to Option Agreement
Employment agreements; assignment of rights
     (a) Any provision in an employment agreement which provides that an employee shall assign, or offer to assign, any of his rights in an invention to his employer shall not apply to an invention that the employee developed entirely on his own time without using the employer's equipment, supplies, facilities, or trade secret information except for those inventions that either:
     (ii) relate at the time of conception or reduction to practice of the invention to the employer's business, or actual or demonstrably anticipated research or development of the employer; or
     (iii) result from any work performed by the employee for the employer.
     (b) To the extent a provision in an employment agreement purports to require an employee to assign an invention otherwise excluded from being required to be assigned under subdivision (a), the provision is against the public policy of this state and is unenforceable.

Exhibit 10.2
     Unless otherwise defined herein, the terms defined in the Omnicom Group Inc. 2007 Incentive Award Plan (the "") shall have the same defined meanings in this Grant Notice (the "") and the Restricted Stock Agreement attached as Exhibit A to this Grant Notice (collectively, the "").
Plan
Grant Notice
Agreement
     You have been granted shares of Restricted Stock (the , subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Agreement.
"Restricted Shares")
     Your signature below, which may be accomplished through electronic means approved by Omnicom, indicates your agreement and understanding that the Restricted Shares are subject to all of the terms and conditions contained in this Agreement, including the Grant Notice, the Restricted Stock Agreement attached as Exhibit A to this Grant Notice, the Plan and the restrictive covenants set forth in Section 6 of Exhibit A.
ACCORDINGLY, PLEASE BE SURE TO READ ALL OF EXHIBIT A, WHICH CONTAINS THE SPECIFIC TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THE RESTRICTED SHARES.
     1. . Omnicom has granted the Employee that number of Restricted Shares set forth in the Grant Notice. On the Grant Date, the Employee shall pay to Omnicom an amount equal to $0.15 multiplied by the number of Restricted Shares being granted hereunder (such amount being the aggregate par value of the Restricted Shares) (the ""). Such payment shall either be (i) deducted by the administrator of the Plan ("") from the Employee's brokerage account or participant trust maintained with Omnicom's Agent (""), (ii) if the entire Aggregate Par Value is not on deposit in Employee's Brokerage Account, deposited in cash by the Employee to Employee's Brokerage Account, or (iii) made as otherwise directed by Omnicom. The Restricted Shares shall be deemed to include associated Stock Dividends (as defined below).
Grant
Aggregate Par Value
Omnicom's Agent
Employee's Brokerage Account
     2. . The Employee is the owner of the Restricted Shares and has all the rights of a shareholder with respect thereto, including the right to vote such Restricted Shares and to receive all dividends or other distributions paid with respect to such Restricted Shares; provided, that, dividends and distributions in shares of Stock (the "") shall be subject to restrictions and a risk of forfeiture to the same extent as the Restricted Shares with respect to which such Stock Dividends have been distributed. Accordingly, the Employee shall only be entitled to receive such Stock Dividends when the Restricted Shares (with respect to which such Stock Dividends have been distributed) vest pursuant to Section 3 below. Such ownership of Restricted Shares and Stock Dividends shall be evidenced by book entries on the records of Omnicom or its transfer agents or registrars. Promptly following the vesting of Restricted Shares pursuant to this Agreement, shares evidencing such Restricted Shares and Stock Dividends shall be transferred into Employee's Brokerage Account or, at Omnicom's sole discretion, stock certificate(s) shall be issued and delivered to the Employee (or his/her permitted transferees) by Omnicom.
Ownership, Rights as a Shareholder and Custody
Stock Dividends
     3.
Vesting and Forfeiture.
     a) The Employee shall vest in the Restricted Shares in accordance with the vesting schedule set forth in the Grant Notice; subject to paragraphs (b)  (d) below, in the event the Employee incurs a Termination of Employment, the Employee's right to vest in the Restricted Shares and to receive the Shares related thereto shall terminate effective as of the date of such Termination of Employment and the Employee shall have no further rights to such Restricted Shares.
provided, that,
     b) In the event of a Termination of Employment prior to a Vesting Date by reason of the death of the Employee, all of the Restricted Shares not yet vested shall vest and become transferable and nonforfeitable on the Termination Date.
     c) In the event of a Termination of Employment prior to a Vesting Date by reason of the Disability of the Employee, a portion of the then unvested Restricted Shares shall vest and become transferable and nonforfeitable on the Termination Date, such portion (rounded up to the nearest full Restricted Share) to be equal to the sum for each remaining Vesting Date of (i) the total number of Restricted Shares which would vest on such Vesting Date multiplied by (ii) a fraction, (A) the numerator of which shall be the number of full calendar months between the Grant Date and the Termination Date and (B) the denominator of which shall be the number of full calendar months between the Grant Date and such Vesting Date.
     d) The Employee acknowledges that upon a Change in Control prior to a Vesting Date, Article 11 of the Plan shall govern.
     e) Any Restricted Shares not vested on the Termination Date shall be forfeited and Omnicom shall repurchase such Restricted Shares from the Employee or the Employee's legal representative at a price equal to the product of (i) the par value of such Restricted Shares multiplied by (ii) the number of Restricted Shares being repurchased. Omnicom shall pay or cause to be paid such amount to the Employee or the Employee's legal representative no later than 60 days following the Termination Date.
     f) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement (including without limitation Section 2 above):
     (i) The Employee is ultimately liable and responsible for all taxes owed in connection with the Restricted Stock, regardless of any action Omnicom or any Omnicom Affiliate takes with respect to any tax withholding obligations that arise in connection with the Restricted Stock. Neither Omnicom nor any of its Affiliates makes any representation or undertaking regarding the treatment of any tax associated with the awarding or vesting of the Restricted Stock or the subsequent sale of vested Shares. Omnicom and its Affiliates do not commit and are under no obligation to structure the Restricted Stock to reduce or eliminate the Employee's tax liability.
     (ii) Prior to any event in connection with the Restricted Stock (e.g., vesting) that Omnicom determines may result in any domestic or foreign tax withholding obligation, whether national, federal, state or local, including any social tax obligation (the ""), the Employee shall make arrangements satisfactory to Omnicom for the satisfaction of any Tax Withholding Obligation that arise in connection with his/her Restricted Stock, including, without limitation, by electing to have the administrator of the Plan withhold a portion of the vested Shares on the Vesting Date in payment of the relevant withholding taxes or maintaining sufficient cash in Employee's Brokerage Account for payment of the relevant withholding taxes. In the event Shares are withheld for the satisfaction of any Tax Withholding Obligation, the number of Shares to be withheld shall equal the quotient of (A) the amount of the Tax Withholding Obligation, and (B) the Fair Market Value of the Shares on the Vesting Date.
Tax Withholding Obligation
     g) Omnicom may refuse to issue any shares of Stock to the Employee until such Employee satisfies the Tax Withholding Obligation. To the maximum extent permitted by law, Omnicom has the right to retain without notice from shares of Stock transferable upon
vesting or from salary payable to the Employee, shares of Stock or cash having a value sufficient to satisfy the Tax Withholding Obligation.
     4. . For purposes of this Agreement, the terms set forth below shall have the following meanings:
Definitions
     a) "" of Omnicom or the Company, as the case may be, shall mean any person, firm, corporation or other form of entity that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, or is controlled by, or is under common control with Omnicom or the Company, as the case may be as determined by Omnicom.
Affiliate
     b) "" shall mean any person, firm, corporation or other form of entity to whom any member of the Group (i) rendered services at any time during the Employment Period or (ii) had made a Pitch at any time during the Employment Period, or the six months immediately following, the Termination Date.
Client
     c) "" means the Omnicom Affiliate by whom the Employee is employed as of the date of this Agreement and each other Omnicom Affiliate by whom the Employee is employed at any time during the Employment Period, notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary.
Company
d) "" means the Employee set forth in the Grant Notice.
Employee
     e) "" means the period that the Employee is employed by any member of the Group.
Employment Period
f) "" means the Grant Date set forth in the Grant Notice.
Grant Date
     g) "" means (i) if the Company operates within an Omnicom network, all of the companies, group of companies and divisions operating under a global or national brand of such Omnicom network, and (ii) if the Company operates as part of a division or separate company independent of an Omnicom network, all companies and divisions operating under such independent brand.
Group
     h) "" means a new business presentation or similar offering of services; provided, however, a general mailing or an incidental contact shall not be deemed a Pitch.
Pitch
     i) "" shall mean any person, firm, corporation or other form of entity to whom any member of the Group (i) rendered services at any time during the one-year period prior to the Termination Date, or (ii) had made a Pitch at any time during the one-year period immediately preceding, or the six months immediately following, the Termination Date.
Restricted Client
     j) "" means the date on which the Termination of Employment occurs.
Termination Date
     k) "" means the time when the Employee is no longer employed by any Omnicom Affiliate for any reason whatsoever, as determined by Omnicom or an Omnicom Affiliate.
Termination of Employment
     5. . No right or interest of the Employee in the Restricted Shares not yet vested may be pledged, encumbered, or hypothecated to or in favor of any party other than Omnicom or an Omnicom Affiliate, or shall be subject to any lien, obligation, or liability of the Employee to any other party other than Omnicom or an Omnicom Affiliate. No Restricted Share not yet vested shall be assigned, transferred, or otherwise disposed of by the Employee other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution or pursuant to beneficiary designation procedures approved from time to time by the Committee. Notwithstanding the foregoing, to the extent and under such terms and conditions as determined by the Committee, the Employee may assign or transfer the Restricted Shares not yet vested (each transferee thereof, a "") (i) to the Employee's spouse, children or grandchildren (including any adopted and step children or grandchildren), parents, grandparents or siblings, (ii) to a trust for the benefit of the Employee and/or one or more of the Persons referred to in clause (i), (iii) to a partnership, limited liability company or corporation in which the Employee or the Persons referred to in clause (i) are the only partners, members or shareholders or (iv) for charitable donations; provided, however, that such Permitted Assignee shall be bound by and subject to all of the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Agreement relating to the transferred Restricted Shares and shall execute an agreement satisfactory to Omnicom evidencing such obligations; and provided further that the Employee shall remain bound by the terms and conditions of the Plan.
Nontransferability
Permitted Assignee
     6.
Non-Solicitation/Non-Servicing and Protection of Confidential Information Agreement
.
     a) In consideration for and in order to be eligible to receive the voluntary grant of the Restricted Shares provided in this Agreement, except on behalf of a member of the Group, the Employee will not, as an individual, employee, consultant, independent contractor, partner, shareholder, member or in association with any other person, firm, corporation or other form of entity, directly or indirectly, and regardless of the Employee continuing to be employed by a member of the Group or the reason for the Employee ceasing to be so employed by any member of the Group:
     (i) during the Employment Period, directly or indirectly, solicit business on behalf of, render any services to, engage in, or have any ownership interests or other affiliation in, any business or other endeavor, which is engaged in the business of the same nature as or competitive with any member of the Group; provided, however, that nothing contained in this clause (i) shall be deemed to prevent the undersigned from owning less than  of 1% of the shares of any publicly held corporation engaged in any such business;
     (ii) if either (A) any Restricted Shares have vested under this Agreement, or (B) a voluntary Termination of Employment occurs, then for a one-year period following the Termination Date, solicit, render services to or for, or accept from, any Restricted Client, any business of the type performed by any
member of the Group for such Restricted Client or persuade or attempt in any manner to persuade any Restricted Client to cease to do business or to reduce the amount of business which any such Restricted Client has customarily done or is reasonably expected to do with members of the Group; provided, , that solely with respect to this Section 6(a)(ii), the definition of Restricted Client shall be limited to the particular product, brand or service of such Restricted Client in respect of which at any time during the one-year period prior to the Termination Date, the Employee (A) had a servicing relationship, supervisory responsibility or other involvement, or (B) participated in, supervised or had any responsibility or other involvement in a Pitch; and
however
     (iii) if either (A) any Restricted Shares have vested under this Agreement, or (B) a voluntary Termination of Employment occurs, then for a one-year period following the Termination Date, employ as an employee or retain as a consultant any person, firm, corporation or other form of entity who is then or at any time during the one-year period prior to the Termination Date was, an employee of or exclusive consultant to a member of the Group, or persuade or attempt to persuade any employee of or exclusive consultant to a member of the Group to leave the employ of such member of the Group or to become employed as an employee or retained as a consultant by any other person, firm, corporation or other form of entity; provided, however, a solicitation pursuant to general recruitment advertising that is not directed at the employees or exclusive consultants of any member of the Group shall not be deemed to be a breach of this provision.
     b) As a professional in a highly service-oriented and creative business, the Employee understands and agrees that his/her position with the Company requires and will continue to require services which are of a special character and which places him/her in a position of confidence and trust with the Clients and employees of members of the Group. The Employee further acknowledges that his/her services to the Clients necessarily require that the Employee have access to Confidential Information (as defined below) of members of the Group and their respective Clients and that, in the course of his/her employment with or rendering of services to the Company, the Employee will develop personal relationships with the Clients and knowledge of those Clients' affairs and requirements. Accordingly, the Employee acknowledges that the type and periods of restrictions imposed in this Agreement are fair and reasonable and are reasonably required in order to protect and maintain the proprietary interests of the members of the Group, other legitimate business interests of members of the Group, and the goodwill associated with the members of the Group. The Employee further understands and agrees that the Restricted Clients may be serviced from any location and accordingly it is reasonable that the covenants set forth herein are not limited by narrow geographic area but generally by the location of such Restricted Clients. In the event that any covenant contained in this Agreement shall be determined by any court or other tribunal of competent jurisdiction to be unenforceable by reason of its extending for too great a period of time or over too great a geographical area or by reason of its being too extensive in any other respect, (i) such covenant shall be interpreted to extend only over the maximum period of time for which it may be enforceable and/or over the maximum geographical area as to which it may be enforceable and/or to the maximum extent in all other respects as to which it may be enforceable, all as determined by such court or other
tribunal making such determination, and (ii) in its reduced form, such covenant shall then be enforceable, but such reduced form of covenant shall only apply with respect to the operation of such covenant in the particular jurisdiction in or for which such adjudication is made.
     c) The Employee hereby acknowledges and agrees that for so long as the Employee has been employed by the Company (which term, as used in this Section 6(c) and Section 6(d) shall be deemed to include any Affiliate of the Company), the Employee has acquired and will continue to acquire and have access to confidential or proprietary information about the Company and/or its Clients, including but not limited to, trade secrets, methods, models, passwords, access to computer files, financial information and records, computer software programs, agreements and/or contracts between the Company and its Clients, Client contacts, creative policies and ideas, advertising campaigns, public relations campaigns, creative and media materials, graphic design, budgets, practices, concepts, strategies, methods of operation, financial or business projections of the Company, and information about or received from its Clients (collectively, ""). Accordingly, in consideration for and in order to be eligible to receive the voluntary grant of the Restricted Shares provided in this Agreement, for so long as the Employee is employed by a member of the Group and thereafter, the Employee will retain in strictest confidence all Confidential Information and shall not disclose any such Confidential Information to anyone outside the members of the Group and Omnicom, except in the course of the Employee's duties for the Company or with Omnicom's express written consent. The Employee hereby acknowledges that he/she is aware that such Confidential Information is not readily available to the public, and agrees that he/she will not at any time utilize such Confidential Information for his/her own benefit or for the benefit of third parties.
Confidential Information
     d) The Employee hereby acknowledges and agrees that all materials created or modified by the Employee for so long as the Employee is employed by the Company, including, without limitation, all works of authorship, inventions, processes, ideas, methods, concepts and other tangible and intangible materials (collectively, ""), shall be "work for hire" and that the Company and/or Omnicom shall be the exclusive owner of the Work Product and all intellectual property rights associated with the Work Product, including all trademarks, patents or copyrights contained therein. To the extent any Work Product does not qualify as "work for hire", the Employee hereby assigns ownership of all such Work Product to the Company and/or Omnicom and agrees to take all reasonable measures, at the Company's expense, to perfect such rights in the Company and/or Omnicom. The Employee hereby appoints the Company and/or Omnicom as his/her attorney-in-fact with the limited power to execute assignments of such Work Product. If the Employee is an employee in the State of California, the parties hereto agree and acknowledge that the terms of this paragraph shall be subject to the terms of Section 2870 of the California Labor Code, a copy of which is annexed to this Agreement. The Employee hereby agrees to advise the Company and/or Omnicom promptly in writing of any inventions that he/she believes meet the criteria set forth in Section 2870.
Work Product
     e) Each of the covenants and agreements contained in this Section 6 (collectively, the "") is separate, distinct and severable. All rights, remedies and benefits expressly provided for in this Section 6 are cumulative and are not exclusive of any rights, remedies or benefits provided for by law, in this Section 6 or otherwise, and the exercise of any remedy by a party hereto shall not be deemed an election to the exclusion
Protective Covenants
of any other remedy (any such claim by the other party being hereby waived). The provisions of this Section 6 are not in lieu of, but are in addition to the continuing obligations of the Employee (which the Employee hereby acknowledges) to not use or disclose Confidential Information known to the Employee until any particular piece of Confidential Information becomes generally known to the public (through no action of the Employee), whereupon the restriction on use and disclosure shall cease as to that particular item. The existence of any claim, demand, action or cause of action that the Employee may have against Omnicom or any of its Affiliates, whether predicated pursuant to this Section 6 or otherwise, shall not constitute a defense to the enforcement of the provisions of this Section 6 or any other provision or provisions of this Agreement. The covenants contained in this Section 6 for the benefit of Omnicom and the members of the Group, shall survive any termination of this Agreement and may be waived in whole or in part by Omnicom without the consent of any other person, firm, corporation or other form of entity. The temporal duration of the Protective Covenants shall not expire, and shall be tolled, during any period in which the Employee is in violation of any of such Protective Covenants, and all such Protective Covenants shall automatically be extended by the period of such violation. The Employee further acknowledges that he/she is a highly regarded employee who considered the terms and conditions upon which he/she is electing to be granted the Restricted Shares and that he/she has been advised and has had the opportunity to obtain counsel of his/her choice in connection with reviewing and executing this Agreement.
     f) By acceptance of the grant of Restricted Shares, the Employee agrees that if the Employee were, without authority, to use or disclose Confidential Information, or otherwise breach any of the Protective Covenants, or threaten to do so, in addition to all other available remedies (including without limitation seeking such damages as it can show it has sustained by reason of such breach), (i) Omnicom and/or any member of the Group shall be entitled to specific performance and injunctive and other appropriate relief (without being required to post bond or other security and without having to prove the inadequacy of the available remedies at law) to prevent the Employee from doing so, and/or (ii) Omnicom (by action of the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, President, Chief Financial Officer or General Counsel of Omnicom) may cause any or all of the following actions to occur: (x) the Restricted Shares granted hereunder shall become void, shall be forfeited and shall terminate effective the date on which the Employee entered into such activity, (y) any vested shares of Stock acquired by the Employee pursuant to the grant hereunder shall be forfeited and returned to Omnicom, and (z) any gain realized by the Employee from the sale or transfer of shares of Stock acquired through the grant hereunder, shall be returned by the Employee to Omnicom. The Employee acknowledges that the harm caused to Omnicom and/or members of the Group by the breach or anticipated breach of this Agreement is by its nature irreparable because, among other things, it is not readily susceptible of proof as to the monetary harm that would ensue. The Employee consents that any interim or final equitable relief entered by a court of competent jurisdiction shall, at the request of Omnicom and/or a member of the Group be entered on consent and enforced by any court having jurisdiction over the Employee, without prejudice to any rights either party may have to appeal from the proceedings that resulted in any grant of such relief.
     g) During the Employment Period and the one-year period after the Termination Date, prior to accepting employment with any subsequent employer, the Employee shall notify any prospective employer in writing of his/her obligations under this Agreement. In addition, immediately after accepting employment with a subsequent employer, the Employee
shall provide Omnicom with a copy of the notice that was sent by him/her to such subsequent employer.
     h) The Employee acknowledges and agrees that if Employee has received an equity award (including any restricted stock, restricted stock unit or stock option award) from Omnicom during or after 2005 pursuant to the Plan or any other current or former equity plan of Omnicom, the Employee has previously agreed to restrictions similar to those set forth in this Section 6 (the "") and such Prior Restrictions shall remain in full force and effect and shall be in addition to the Employee's obligations under this Section 6.
Prior Restrictions
     7. .
Investment Representation and Compliance With Applicable Law
The Employee hereby represents and covenants that (a) the Restricted Shares will be acquired for investment and not with a view to the distribution thereof within the meaning of the Securities Act, unless such acquisition has been registered under the Securities Act and any applicable state securities law; and (b) any subsequent sale of any such Restricted Shares, unless their acquisition had been so registered, shall be made either pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act and any applicable state securities laws, or pursuant to an exemption from registration under the Securities Act and such state securities laws.
     8. Nothing in the grant of the Restricted Shares or in this Agreement shall constitute or be evidence of any understanding, express or implied, on the part of the Company, Omnicom or any Omnicom Affiliate to employ the Employee for any period or shall interfere with or restrict in any way the rights of the Company, Omnicom and the Omnicom Affiliates to discharge the Employee at any time for any reason whatsoever, with or without cause.
No Understandings as to Employment
.
     9. . The Employee accepts the Restricted Shares herein subject to all of the provisions of the Plan, which are incorporated into this Agreement, including the provisions that authorize the Committee to administer and interpret the Plan and which provide that the Committee's decisions, determinations and interpretations with respect to the Plan are final and conclusive on all persons affected hereby. In the event of a conflict between the provisions of this Agreement and the provisions of the Plan, the provisions of the Plan shall govern. Terms not otherwise defined in this Agreement shall have the meanings ascribed in the Plan.
Plan Incorporated
     10. . The award of Restricted Shares may be wholly or partially amended or otherwise modified, suspended or terminated at any time or from time to time by the Board or the Committee, provided that, except as provided by Article 11 of the Plan, neither the amendment, modification, suspension nor termination of this Agreement shall, without the consent of the Employee, adversely alter or impair any rights or obligations of the Employee under this Agreement with respect to the award of Restricted Shares in any material way.
Amendment
     11. The parties hereto agree that Omnicom shall have the right to assign this Agreement, and accordingly, this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, and may be enforced by, any and all successors and assigns of Omnicom, including, without limitation, by asset assignment, stock sale, merger, consolidation or other corporate reorganization. Subject to Section 5, the Employee agrees that his/her obligations under this Agreement are personal to
Assignment
.
him/her, and the Employee shall not have the right to assign or otherwise transfer his/her obligations hereunder. Any purported assignment or transfer by the Employee shall be void and ineffective.
     12. . The interpretation and construction of this Agreement, and all matters relating hereto (including, without limitation, the validity or enforcement of this Agreement), shall be governed by the laws of New York without regard to any conflicts or choice of laws provisions of the State of New York that would result in the application of the law of any other jurisdiction.
Governing Law
     13. Any notice to be given to Omnicom under the terms of this Agreement shall be addressed to the Office of the General Counsel of Omnicom at 437 Madison Avenue, New York, New York 10022, and any notice to be given to the Employee shall be addressed to the Employee at the address set forth beneath his or her signature hereto, or at such other address for a party as such party may hereafter designate in writing to the other. Any such notice shall be deemed to have been duly given if mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as aforesaid.
Notice
.
     14. All section titles and captions in this Agreement are for convenience only, shall not be deemed part of this Agreement, and in no way shall define, limit, extend or describe the scope or intent of any provisions of this Agreement.
Headings
.
     15. The parties shall execute all documents, provide all information, and take or refrain from taking all actions as may be reasonably necessary or appropriate to achieve the purposes of this Agreement. The Employee acknowledges that any sale of Restricted Shares following the date of vesting shall be further evidence of Employee's acceptance of the terms of this Agreement, including Section 6 of this Agreement.
Further Assurances
.
     16. This Agreement, including the Grant Notice and this Restricted Stock Agreement attached as Exhibit A to the Grant Notice, subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, constitute the entire agreement among the parties hereto pertaining to the subject matter hereof and supersede all prior agreements and understandings pertaining thereto. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any other confidentiality agreement, non-solicitation/non-servicing agreement or any other type of restrictive covenant agreement that the Employee has entered into prior to the date hereof or may enter into after the date hereof with Omnicom or one of its Affiliates shall remain in full force and effect. No oral understandings, oral statements, oral promises or oral inducements between the parties hereto relating to this Agreement exist. No representations, warranties, covenants or conditions, express or implied, whether by statute or otherwise, other than as set forth in this Agreement, have been made by the parties hereto.
Entire Agreement
.
     17. No failure by any party to insist upon the strict performance of any covenant, duty, agreement or condition of this Agreement or to exercise any right or remedy consequent upon a breach thereof shall constitute waiver of any such breach or any other covenant, duty, agreement or condition.
Remedies
.
     18. . The Employee acknowledges and agrees that the Employee's acceptance of the terms of this Agreement through electronic means shall
Acceptance; Counterparts
have the same force and effect as an acceptance made in writing. This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, or by facsimile transmission, each of which shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
     19. By signing and returning this Agreement, the Employee agrees that the Employee's rights in respect of the Restricted Shares (including upon Termination of Employment) shall be defined solely by the Plan and the provisions of this Agreement. Accordingly, the Employee waives all other claims he/she may have against Omnicom or any of its Affiliates, and their respective officers, directors, agents and employees for any losses or damages arising out of the forfeiture of any Restricted Shares as a result of such Termination of Employment, or otherwise in relation to the Plan with respect to such Restricted Shares.
Waiver
.
     20. Nothing in this Agreement is intended to confer upon any other person except the Employee, Omnicom and the Affiliates of Omnicom any rights or remedies hereunder or shall create any third party beneficiary rights in any person (other than Affiliates of Omnicom).
Third Party Beneficiaries
.
     21. The language used in this Agreement will be deemed to be the language chosen by the parties hereto to express their mutual intent, and no rule of law or contract interpretation that provides that in the case of ambiguity or uncertainty a provision should be construed against the draftsman will be applied against any party hereto. The provisions of this Agreement shall be construed according to their fair meaning and neither for nor against any party hereto irrespective of which party caused such provisions to be drafted.
No Strict Construction
.
     22. . The Committee shall have the power to interpret the Plan and this Agreement and to adopt such rules for the administration, interpretation and application of the Plan as are consistent therewith and to interpret or revoke any such rules. All actions taken and all interpretations and determinations made by the Committee in good faith shall be final and binding upon the Employee, Omnicom and all other interested persons. No member of the Committee shall be personally liable for any action, determination or interpretation made in good faith with respect to the Plan or this Agreement.
Committee Authority
     23. In the event that any provision in this Agreement is held invalid or unenforceable, such provision shall be severable from, and such invalidity or unenforceability shall not be construed to have any effect on, the remaining provisions of this Agreement.
Agreement Severable
.
     24. .
Employee Data Privacy
     a) The Employee hereby explicitly and unambiguously consents to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of the Employee's personal data as described in this document by Omnicom and/or the Company for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Employee's participation in the Plan.
     b) The Employee understands that Omnicom and/or the Company hold certain personal information, including, but not limited to, name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number or other identification number, salary, nationality,
job title, any Shares or directorships held in the Company or any of its Affiliates, details of all entitlement to Restricted Shares and Shares awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in the Employee's favor (""), for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan.
Data
     c) The Employee understands that Data may be transferred to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, that these recipients may be located in the Employee's country or elsewhere, and that the recipient's country may have different data privacy laws and protections than the Employee's country. The Employee understands that the Employee may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting the Employee's local human resources representative.
     d) The Employee authorizes the recipients to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing the Employee's participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data as may be required to a broker or other third party. The Employee understands that Data shall be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage the Employee's participation in the Plan. The Employee understands that the Employee may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case without cost, by contacting in writing the Employee's local human resources representative. The Employee understands, however, that refusing or withdrawing consent may affect the Employee's ability to participate in the Plan. For more information on the consequences of the refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, the Employee understands that the Employee may contact the Employee's local human resources representative.
Annex I
to Restricted Stock Agreement
Employment agreements; assignment of rights
     (a) Any provision in an employment agreement which provides that an employee shall assign, or offer to assign, any of his rights in an invention to his employer shall not apply to an invention that the employee developed entirely on his own time without using the employer's equipment, supplies, facilities, or trade secret information except for those inventions that either:
     (ii) relate at the time of conception or reduction to practice of the invention to the employer's business, or actual or demonstrably anticipated research or development of the employer; or
     (iii) result from any work performed by the employee for the employer.
     (b) To the extent a provision in an employment agreement purports to require an employee to assign an invention otherwise excluded from being required to be assigned under subdivision (a), the provision is against the public policy of this state and is unenforceable.

Exhibit 10.3
     Unless otherwise defined herein, the terms defined in the Omnicom Group Inc. 2007 Incentive Award Plan (the "") shall have the same defined meanings in this Grant Notice (the "") and the Restricted Stock Unit Agreement attached as Exhibit A to this Grant Notice (collectively, the "").
Plan
Grant Notice
Agreement
     You have been granted Restricted Stock Units (""), subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Agreement.
RSUs
     Your signature below, which may be accomplished through electronic means approved by Omnicom, indicates your agreement and understanding that the RSUs are subject to all of the terms and conditions contained in this Agreement, including the Grant Notice, the Restricted Stock Unit Agreement attached as Exhibit A to this Grant Notice, the Plan and the restrictive covenants set forth in Section 6 of Exhibit A.
ACCORDINGLY, PLEASE BE SURE TO READ ALL OF EXHIBIT A, WHICH CONTAINS THE SPECIFIC TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THE RSUS.
     1. . Omnicom has granted the Employee that number of RSUs set forth in the Grant Notice. Each RSU represents the right to receive one Share. However, unless and until the RSUs have vested, the Employee shall have no right to the payment of any Shares subject thereto. Prior to the actual payment of any Shares, such RSUs shall represent an unsecured obligation of Omnicom, payable (if at all) only from the general assets of Omnicom.
Award of RSUs
     2. .
Dividend Equivalents, Rights as Shareholder and Custody
     a) With respect to each RSU that is outstanding on the record date (the "") of any dividend or other distribution paid with respect to shares of Stock, the Employee shall be entitled to receive such dividend or other distribution as follows:
Record Date
     (i) if the dividends or other distributions are paid in cash to the stockholders of Omnicom, the Employee shall automatically receive a cash payment equal to the cash payment that the Employee would have received if the RSUs with respect to which the Employee is receiving the dividend or other distribution had already been settled in shares of Stock, less applicable tax withholding; and
     (ii) if any such dividends or distributions are paid to the stockholders of Omnicom in shares of Stock, the Employee shall receive a number of RSUs equal to the number of shares of Stock the Employee would have received if the RSUs with respect to which the Employee is receiving the dividend had already been settled in shares of Stock. Any such additional RSUs shall be subject to the same vesting requirements and restrictions on transferability as the RSUs with respect to which they were distributed and shall be considered RSUs under the terms of this Agreement.
     (iii) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Employee is entitled to such dividend or other distribution as a result of holding shares of Stock issued with respect to the settlement of RSUs on or after the Record Date but prior to the payment of the applicable dividend or other distribution (the ""), then the Employee shall not also be entitled to receive dividends or other distributions under this Section 2(a) with respect to the Settled RSUs.
Settled RSUs
     b) No Shares shall be issued to the Employee prior to the date on which the RSUs vest. Promptly following the vesting of RSUs pursuant to this Agreement, Shares evidencing such RSUs shall be transferred into Employee's brokerage account or participant trust maintained with the administrator of the Plan (the "") or, at Omnicom's sole discretion, stock certificate(s) shall be issued and delivered to the Employee (or his/her permitted transferees) by Omnicom. Neither the Employee nor any person claiming under or
Brokerage Account
through the Employee shall have any of the rights or privileges of a stockholder of Omnicom in respect of any Shares deliverable hereunder unless and until Shares have been deposited in Employee's Brokerage Account or certificates representing such Shares (which may be in book entry form) have been issued and recorded on the records of Omnicom or its transfer agents or registrars, and delivered to the Employee. Except as otherwise provided herein, after such issuance, recordation and delivery, the Employee shall have all the rights of a stockholder of Omnicom with respect to voting such Shares and the receipt of dividends and distributions on such Shares.
     3.
Vesting and Forfeiture; Tax Withholding; Committee Discretion.
     a) The Employee shall vest in the RSUs in accordance with the vesting schedule set forth in the Grant Notice; subject to paragraphs (b)  (d) below, in the event the Employee incurs a Termination of Employment, the Employee's right to vest in the RSUs and to receive the Shares related thereto shall terminate effective as of the date of such Termination of Employment and the Employee shall have no further rights to such RSUs or the related Shares.
provided, that,
     b) In the event of a Termination of Employment prior to a Vesting Date by reason of the death of the Employee, all of the RSUs not yet vested shall vest and become nonforfeitable on the Termination Date.
     c) In the event of a Termination of Employment prior to a Vesting Date by reason of the Disability of the Employee, a portion of the then unvested RSUs shall vest and become nonforfeitable on the Termination Date, such portion (rounded up to the nearest full RSU) to be equal to the sum for each remaining Vesting Date of (i) the total number of RSUs which would vest on such Vesting Date multiplied by (ii) a fraction, (A) the numerator of which shall be the number of full calendar months between the Grant Date and the Termination Date and (B) the denominator of which shall be the number of full calendar months between the Grant Date and such Vesting Date.
     d) The Employee acknowledges that upon a Change in Control prior to a Vesting Date, Article 11 of the Plan shall govern.
     e) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement (including without limitation Section 2(b) above):
     (i) The Employee is ultimately liable and responsible for all taxes owed in connection with the RSUs, regardless of any action Omnicom or any Omnicom Affiliate takes with respect to any tax withholding obligations that arise in connection with the RSUs. Neither Omnicom nor any of its Affiliates makes any representation or undertaking regarding the treatment of any tax associated with the awarding or vesting of the RSUs or the subsequent sale of Shares issuable pursuant to the RSUs. Omnicom and its Affiliates do not commit and are under no obligation to structure the RSUs to reduce or eliminate the Employee's tax liability.
     (ii) Prior to any event in connection with the RSU (e.g., vesting) that Omnicom determines may result in any domestic or foreign tax withholding obligation,
whether national, federal, state or local, including any social tax obligation (the ""), the Employee shall make arrangements satisfactory to Omnicom for the satisfaction of any Tax Withholding Obligation that arise in connection with his/her RSUs, including, without limitation, by electing to have the administrator of the Plan withhold a portion of the vested Shares on the Vesting Date in payment of the relevant withholding taxes or maintaining sufficient cash in Employee's Brokerage Account for payment of the relevant withholding taxes. In the event Shares are withheld for the satisfaction of any Tax Withholding Obligation, the number of Shares to be withheld shall equal the quotient of (A) the amount of the Tax Withholding Obligation, and (B) the Fair Market Value of the Shares on the Vesting Date.
Tax Withholding Obligation
     (iii) Omnicom may refuse to issue any shares of Stock to the Employee until such Employee satisfies the Tax Withholding Obligation. To the maximum extent permitted by law, Omnicom has the right to retain without notice from shares of Stock issuable under the RSUs or from salary payable to the Employee, shares of Stock or cash having a value sufficient to satisfy the Tax Withholding Obligation.
     4. . For purposes of this Agreement, the terms set forth below shall have the following meanings:
Definitions
     a) "" of Omnicom or the Company, as the case may be, shall mean any person, firm, corporation or other form of entity that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, or is controlled by, or is under common control with Omnicom or the Company, as the case may be as determined by Omnicom.
Affiliate
     b) "" means any person, firm, corporation or other form of entity to whom any member of the Group (i) rendered services at any time during the Employment Period or (ii) had made a Pitch at any time during the Employment Period, or the six months immediately following, the Termination Date.
Client
     c) "" means the Omnicom Affiliate by whom the Employee is employed as of the date of this Agreement and each other Omnicom Affiliate by whom the Employee is employed at any time during the Employment Period, notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary.
Company
     d) "" means the Employee set forth in the Grant Notice.
Employee
     e) "" means the period that the Employee is employed by any member of the Group.
Employment Period
     f) "" means (i) if the Company operates within an Omnicom network, all of the companies, group of companies and divisions operating under a global or national brand of such Omnicom network, and (ii) if the Company operates as part of a division or separate company independent of an Omnicom network, all companies and divisions operating under such independent brand.
Group
     g) "" means Omnicom Group Inc., a New York corporation.
Omnicom
     h) "" means a new business presentation or similar offering of services; provided, however, a general mailing or an incidental contact shall not be deemed a Pitch.
Pitch
     i) "" means any person, firm, corporation or other form of entity to whom any member of the Group (i) rendered services at any time during the one-year period prior to the Termination Date, or (ii) had made a Pitch at any time during the one-year period immediately preceding, or the six months immediately following, the Termination Date.
Restricted Client
     j) "" means a share of Stock.
Share
     k) "" means the date on which the Termination of Employment occurs.
Termination Date
     l) "" means the time when the Employee is no longer employed by any Omnicom Affiliate for any reason whatsoever, as determined by Omnicom or an Omnicom Affiliate.
Termination of Employment
     5. . No right or interest of the Employee in the RSUs not yet vested may be pledged, encumbered, or hypothecated to or in favor of any party other than Omnicom or an Omnicom Affiliate, or shall be subject to any lien, obligation, or liability of the Employee to any other party other than Omnicom or an Omnicom Affiliate. No RSU not yet vested shall be assigned, transferred, or otherwise disposed of by the Employee other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution or pursuant to beneficiary designation procedures approved from time to time by the Committee. Notwithstanding the foregoing, to the extent and under such terms and conditions as determined by the Committee, the Employee may assign or transfer the RSUs not yet vested (each transferee thereof, a "") (i) to the Employee's spouse, children or grandchildren (including any adopted and step children or grandchildren), parents, grandparents or siblings, (ii) to a trust for the benefit of the Employee and/or one or more of the persons referred to in clause (i), (iii) to a partnership, limited liability company or corporation in which the Employee or the persons referred to in clause (i) are the only partners, members or shareholders or (iv) for charitable donations; provided, however, that such Permitted Assignee shall be bound by and subject to all of the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Agreement relating to the transferred RSUs and shall execute an agreement satisfactory to Omnicom evidencing such obligations; and provided further that the Employee shall remain bound by the terms and conditions of the Plan.
Nontransferability
Permitted Assignee
     6.
Non-Solicitation/Non-Servicing and Protection of Confidential Information Agreement
.
     a) In consideration for and in order to be eligible to receive the voluntary grant of the RSUs provided in this Agreement, except on behalf of a member of the Group, the Employee will not, as an individual, employee, consultant, independent contractor, partner, shareholder, member or in association with any other person, firm, corporation or other form of entity, directly or indirectly, and regardless of the Employee continuing to be employed by a member of the Group or the reason for the Employee ceasing to be so employed by any member of the Group:
     (i) during the Employment Period, directly or indirectly, solicit business on behalf of, render any services to, engage in, or have any ownership interests or other affiliation in, any business or other endeavor, which is engaged in the business of the same nature as or competitive with any member of the Group; provided, however, that nothing contained in this clause (i) shall be deemed to prevent the undersigned from owning less than  of 1% of the shares of any publicly held corporation engaged in any such business;
     (ii) if either (A) any RSUs have vested under this Agreement, or (B) a voluntary Termination of Employment occurs, then for a one-year period following the Termination Date, solicit, render services to or for, or accept from, any Restricted Client, any business of the type performed by any member of the Group for such Restricted Client or persuade or attempt in any manner to persuade any Restricted Client to cease to do business or to reduce the amount of business which any such Restricted Client has customarily done or is reasonably expected to do with members of the Group; provided, , that solely with respect to this Section 6(a)(ii), the definition of Restricted Client shall be limited to the particular product, brand or service of such Restricted Client in respect of which at any time during the one-year period prior to the Termination Date, the Employee (A) had a servicing relationship, supervisory responsibility or other involvement, or (B) participated in, supervised or had any responsibility or other involvement in a Pitch; and
however
     (iii) if either (A) any RSUs have vested under this Agreement, or (B) a voluntary Termination of Employment occurs, then for a one-year period following the Termination Date, employ as an employee or retain as a consultant any person, firm, corporation or other form of entity who is then or at any time during the one-year period prior to the Termination Date was, an employee of or exclusive consultant to a member of the Group, or persuade or attempt to persuade any employee of or exclusive consultant to a member of the Group to leave the employ of such member of the Group or to become employed as an employee or retained as a consultant by any other person, firm, corporation or other form of entity; provided, however, a solicitation pursuant to general recruitment advertising that is not directed at the employees or exclusive consultants of any member of the Group shall not be deemed to be a breach of this provision.
     b) As a professional in a highly service-oriented and creative business, the Employee understands and agrees that his/her position with the Company requires and will
continue to require services which are of a special character and which places him/her in a position of confidence and trust with the Clients and employees of members of the Group. The Employee further acknowledges that his/her services to the Clients necessarily require that the Employee have access to Confidential Information (as defined below) of members of the Group and their respective Clients and that, in the course of his/her employment with or rendering of services to the Company, the Employee will develop personal relationships with the Clients and knowledge of those Clients' affairs and requirements. Accordingly, the Employee acknowledges that the type and periods of restrictions imposed in this Agreement are fair and reasonable and are reasonably required in order to protect and maintain the proprietary interests of the members of the Group, other legitimate business interests of members of the Group, and the goodwill associated with the members of the Group. The Employee further understands and agrees that the Restricted Clients may be serviced from any location and accordingly it is reasonable that the covenants set forth herein are not limited by narrow geographic area but generally by the location of such Restricted Clients. In the event that any covenant contained in this Agreement shall be determined by any court or other tribunal of competent jurisdiction to be unenforceable by reason of its extending for too great a period of time or over too great a geographical area or by reason of its being too extensive in any other respect, (i) such covenant shall be interpreted to extend only over the maximum period of time for which it may be enforceable and/or over the maximum geographical area as to which it may be enforceable and/or to the maximum extent in all other respects as to which it may be enforceable, all as determined by such court or other tribunal making such determination, and (ii) in its reduced form, such covenant shall then be enforceable, but such reduced form of covenant shall only apply with respect to the operation of such covenant in the particular jurisdiction in or for which such adjudication is made.
     c) The Employee hereby acknowledges and agrees that for so long as the Employee has been employed by the Company (which term, as used in this Section 6(c) and Section 6(d) shall be deemed to include any Affiliate of the Company), the Employee has acquired and shall continue to acquire and have access to confidential or proprietary information about the Company and/or its Clients, including but not limited to, trade secrets, methods, models, passwords, access to computer files, financial information and records, computer software programs, agreements and/or contracts between the Company and its Clients, Client contacts, creative policies and ideas, advertising campaigns, public relations campaigns, creative and media materials, graphic design, budgets, practices, concepts, strategies, methods of operation, financial or business projections of the Company, and information about or received from its Clients (collectively, ""). Accordingly, in consideration for and in order to be eligible to receive the voluntary grant of the RSUs provided in this Agreement, for so long as the Employee is employed by a member of the Group and thereafter, the Employee will retain in strictest confidence all Confidential Information and shall not disclose any such Confidential Information to anyone outside the members of the Group and Omnicom, except in the course of the Employee's duties for the Company or with Omnicom's express written consent. The Employee hereby acknowledges that he/she is aware that such Confidential Information is not readily available to the public, and agrees that he/she will not at any time utilize such Confidential Information for his/her own benefit or for the benefit of third parties.
Confidential Information
     d) The Employee hereby acknowledges and agrees that all materials created or modified by the Employee for so long as the Employee is employed by the Company, including, without limitation, all works of authorship, inventions, processes, ideas, methods,
concepts and other tangible and intangible materials (collectively, ""), shall be "work for hire" and that the Company and/or Omnicom shall be the exclusive owner of the Work Product and all intellectual property rights associated with the Work Product, including all trademarks, patents or copyrights contained therein. To the extent any Work Product does not qualify as "work for hire", the Employee hereby assigns ownership of all such Work Product to the Company and/or Omnicom and agrees to take all reasonable measures, at the Company's expense, to perfect such rights in the Company and/or Omnicom. The Employee hereby appoints the Company and/or Omnicom as his/her attorney-in-fact with the limited power to execute assignments of such Work Product. If the Employee is an employee in the State of California, the parties hereto agree and acknowledge that the terms of this paragraph shall be subject to the terms of Section 2870 of the California Labor Code, a copy of which is annexed to this Agreement. The Employee hereby agrees to advise the Company and/or Omnicom promptly in writing of any inventions that he/she believes meet the criteria set forth in Section 2870.
Work Product
     e) Each of the covenants and agreements contained in this Section 6 (collectively, the "") is separate, distinct and severable. All rights, remedies and benefits expressly provided for in this Section 6 are cumulative and are not exclusive of any rights, remedies or benefits provided for by law, in this Section 6 or otherwise, and the exercise of any remedy by a party hereto shall not be deemed an election to the exclusion of any other remedy (any such claim by the other party being hereby waived). The provisions of this Section 6 are not in lieu of, but are in addition to the continuing obligations of the Employee (which the Employee hereby acknowledges) to not use or disclose Confidential Information known to the Employee until any particular piece of Confidential Information becomes generally known to the public (through no action of the Employee), whereupon the restriction on use and disclosure shall cease as to that particular item. The existence of any claim, demand, action or cause of action that the Employee may have against Omnicom or any of its Affiliates, whether predicated pursuant to this Section 6 or otherwise, shall not constitute a defense to the enforcement of the provisions of this Section 6 or any other provision or provisions of this Agreement. The covenants contained in this Section 6 for the benefit of Omnicom and the members of the Group, shall survive any termination of this Agreement and may be waived in whole or in part by Omnicom without the consent of any other person, firm, corporation or other form of entity. The temporal duration of the Protective Covenants shall not expire, and shall be tolled, during any period in which the Employee is in violation of any of such Protective Covenants, and all such Protective Covenants shall automatically be extended by the period of such violation. The Employee further acknowledges that he/she is a highly regarded employee who considered the terms and conditions upon which he/she is electing to be granted the RSUs and that he/she has been advised and has had the opportunity to obtain counsel of his/her choice in connection with reviewing and executing this Agreement.
Protective Covenants
     f) By acceptance of the grant of RSUs, the Employee agrees that if the Employee were, without authority, to use or disclose Confidential Information, or otherwise breach any of the Protective Covenants, or threaten to do so, in addition to all other available remedies (including without limitation seeking such damages as it can show it has sustained by reason of such breach), (i) Omnicom and/or any member of the Group shall be entitled to specific performance and injunctive and other appropriate relief (without being required to post bond or other security and without having to prove the inadequacy of the available remedies at law) to prevent the Employee from doing so, and/or (ii) Omnicom (by action of the Chairman,
Chief Executive Officer, President, Chief Financial Officer or General Counsel of Omnicom) may cause any or all of the following actions to occur: (x) the RSUs granted hereunder shall become void, shall be forfeited and shall terminate effective the date on which the Employee entered into such activity, (y) any vested shares of Stock acquired by the Employee pursuant to the grant hereunder shall be forfeited and returned to Omnicom, and (z) any gain realized by the Employee from the sale or transfer of shares of Stock acquired through the grant hereunder, shall be returned by the Employee to Omnicom. The Employee acknowledges that the harm caused to Omnicom and/or members of the Group by the breach or anticipated breach of this Agreement is by its nature irreparable because, among other things, it is not readily susceptible of proof as to the monetary harm that would ensue. The Employee consents that any interim or final equitable relief entered by a court of competent jurisdiction shall, at the request of Omnicom and/or a member of the Group be entered on consent and enforced by any court having jurisdiction over the Employee, without prejudice to any rights either party may have to appeal from the proceedings that resulted in any grant of such relief.
     g) During the Employment Period and the one-year period after the Termination Date, prior to accepting employment with any subsequent employer, the Employee shall notify any prospective employer in writing of his/her obligations under this Agreement. In addition, immediately after accepting employment with a subsequent employer, the Employee shall provide Omnicom with a copy of the notice that was sent by him/her to such subsequent employer.
     h) The Employee acknowledges and agrees that if Employee has received an equity award (including any restricted stock, restricted stock unit or stock option award) from Omnicom during or after 2005 pursuant to the Plan or any other current or former equity plan of Omnicom, the Employee has previously agreed to restrictions similar to those set forth in this Section 6 (the "") and such Prior Restrictions shall remain in full force and effect and shall be in addition to the Employee's obligations under this Section 6.
Prior Restrictions
     7. . The Employee hereby represents and covenants that (a) the RSUs and the related Stock will be acquired for investment and not with a view to the distribution thereof within the meaning of the Securities Act, unless such acquisition has been registered under the Securities Act and any applicable state securities law; and (b) any subsequent sale of any such RSUs or the related Stock unless their acquisition had been so registered, shall be made either pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act and any applicable state securities laws, or pursuant to an exemption from registration under the Securities Act and such state securities laws.
Investment Representation and Compliance With Applicable Law
     8. Nothing in the grant of the RSUs or in this Agreement shall constitute or be evidence of any understanding, express or implied, on the part of the Company, Omnicom or any Omnicom Affiliate to employ the Employee for any period or shall interfere with or restrict in any way the rights of the Company, Omnicom and the Omnicom Affiliates to discharge the Employee at any time for any reason whatsoever, with or without cause.
No Understandings as to Employment
.
     9. . The Employee accepts the RSUs herein subject to all of the provisions of the Plan, which are incorporated into this Agreement by reference, including the provisions that authorize the Committee to administer and interpret the Plan and which provide that the Committee's decisions, determinations and interpretations with respect to the Plan are final and conclusive on all persons affected hereby. Except with respect to definitions used in this Agreement, in the event of a conflict between the provisions of this Agreement and the provisions of the Plan, the provisions of the Plan shall govern. Terms not otherwise defined in this Agreement shall have the meanings ascribed in the Plan.
Plan Incorporated
     10. . The award of RSUs and this Agreement may be wholly or partially amended or otherwise modified, suspended or terminated at any time or from time to time by the Board or the Committee, provided that, except as provided by Article 11 of the Plan, neither the amendment, modification, suspension nor termination of this Agreement shall, without the consent of the Employee, adversely alter or impair any rights or obligations of the Employee under this Agreement with respect to the award of RSUs in any material way.
Amendment
     11. The parties hereto agree that Omnicom shall have the right to assign this Agreement, and accordingly, this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, and may be enforced by, any and all successors and assigns of Omnicom, including, without limitation, by asset assignment, stock sale, merger, consolidation or other corporate reorganization. Subject to Section 5, the Employee agrees that his/her obligations under this Agreement are personal to him/her, and the Employee shall not have the right to assign or otherwise transfer his/her obligations hereunder. Any purported assignment or transfer by the Employee shall be void and ineffective.
Assignment
.
     12. . The interpretation and construction of this Agreement, and all matters relating hereto (including, without limitation, the validity or enforcement of this Agreement), shall be governed by the laws of New York without regard to any conflicts or choice of laws provisions of the State of New York that would result in the application of the law of any other jurisdiction.
Governing Law
     13. Any notice to be given to Omnicom under the terms of this Agreement shall be addressed to the Office of the General Counsel of Omnicom at 437 Madison Avenue, New York, New York 10022, and any notice to be given to the Employee shall be addressed to the Employee at the address set forth beneath his or her signature hereto, or at such other address for a party as such party may hereafter designate in writing to the other. Any such notice shall be deemed to have been duly given if mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as aforesaid.
Notice
.
     14. All section titles and captions in this Agreement are for convenience only, shall not be deemed part of this Agreement, and in no way shall define, limit, extend or describe the scope or intent of any provisions of this Agreement.
Headings
.
     15. The parties shall execute all documents, provide all information, and take or refrain from taking all actions as may be reasonably necessary or appropriate to achieve the purposes of this Agreement. The Employee acknowledges that any
Further Assurances
.
sale of Stock issued from the RSUs following the date of vesting shall be further evidence of Employee's acceptance of the terms of this Agreement, including Section 6 of this Agreement.
     16. This Agreement, including the Grant Notice and this Restricted Stock Unit Agreement attached as Exhibit A to the Grant Notice, subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, constitute the entire agreement among the parties hereto pertaining to the subject matter hereof and supersede all prior agreements and understandings pertaining thereto. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any other confidentiality agreement, non-solicitation/non-servicing agreement or any other type of restrictive covenant agreement that the Employee has entered into prior to the date hereof or may enter into after the date hereof with Omnicom or one of its Affiliates shall remain in full force and effect. No oral understandings, oral statements, oral promises or oral inducements between the parties hereto relating to this Agreement exist. No representations, warranties, covenants or conditions, express or implied, whether by statute or otherwise, other than as set forth in this Agreement, have been made by the parties hereto.
Entire Agreement
.
     17. No failure by any party to insist upon the strict performance of any covenant, duty, agreement or condition of this Agreement or to exercise any right or remedy consequent upon a breach thereof shall constitute waiver of any such breach or any other covenant, duty, agreement or condition.
Remedies
.
     18. . The Employee acknowledges and agrees that the Employee's acceptance of the terms of this Agreement through electronic means shall have the same force and effect as an acceptance made in writing. This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, or by facsimile transmission, each of which shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Acceptance; Counterparts
     19. By signing and returning this Agreement, the Employee agrees that the Employee's rights in respect of the RSUs (including upon Termination of Employment) shall be defined solely by the Plan and the provisions of this Agreement. Accordingly, the Employee waives all other claims he/she may have against Omnicom or any of its Affiliates, and their respective officers, directors, agents and employees for any losses or damages arising out of the forfeiture of any RSUs as a result of such Termination of Employment, or otherwise in relation to the Plan with respect to such RSUs.
Waiver
.
     20. Nothing in this Agreement is intended to confer upon any other person except the Employee, Omnicom and the Affiliates of Omnicom any rights or remedies hereunder or shall create any third party beneficiary rights in any person (other than Affiliates of Omnicom).
Third Party Beneficiaries
.
     21. The language used in this Agreement will be deemed to be the language chosen by the parties hereto to express their mutual intent, and no rule of law or contract interpretation that provides that in the case of ambiguity or uncertainty a provision should be construed against the draftsman will be applied against any party hereto. The provisions of this Agreement shall be construed according to their fair meaning and neither for nor against any party hereto irrespective of which party caused such provisions to be drafted.
No Strict Construction
.
     22. . The Committee shall have the power to interpret the Plan and this Agreement and to adopt such rules for the administration, interpretation and application of the Plan as are consistent therewith and to interpret or revoke any such rules. All actions taken and all interpretations and determinations made by the Committee in good faith shall be final and binding upon the Employee, Omnicom and all other interested persons. No member of the Committee shall be personally liable for any action, determination or interpretation made in good faith with respect to the Plan or this Agreement.
Committee Authority
     23. In the event that any provision in this Agreement is held invalid or unenforceable, such provision shall be severable from, and such invalidity or unenforceability shall not be construed to have any effect on, the remaining provisions of this Agreement.
Agreement Severable
.
24. .
Employee Data Privacy
     a) The Employee hereby explicitly and unambiguously consents to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of the Employee's personal data as described in this document by Omnicom and/or the Company for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Employee's participation in the Plan.
     b) The Employee understands that Omnicom and/or the Company hold certain personal information, including, but not limited to, name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any Shares or directorships held in the Company or any of its Affiliates, details of all entitlement to RSUs and Shares awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in the Employee's favor (""), for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan.
Data
     c) The Employee understands that Data may be transferred to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, that these recipients may be located in the Employee's country or elsewhere, and that the recipient's country may have different data privacy laws and protections than the Employee's country. The Employee understands that the Employee may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting the Employee's local human resources representative.
     d) The Employee authorizes the recipients to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing the Employee's participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data as may be required to a broker or other third party. The Employee understands that Data shall be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage the Employee's participation in the Plan. The Employee understands that the Employee may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case without cost, by contacting in writing the Employee's local human resources representative. The Employee understands, however, that refusing or withdrawing consent may affect the Employee's ability to participate in the Plan. For more information on the consequences of the refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, the Employee understands that the Employee may contact the Employee's local human resources representative.
Annex I
to Restricted Stock Unit Agreement
Employment agreements; assignment of rights
     (a) Any provision in an employment agreement which provides that an employee shall assign, or offer to assign, any of his rights in an invention to his employer shall not apply to an invention that the employee developed entirely on his own time without using the employer's equipment, supplies, facilities, or trade secret information except for those inventions that either:
     (i) relate at the time of conception or reduction to practice of the invention to the employer's business, or actual or demonstrably anticipated research or development of the employer; or
     (ii) result from any work performed by the employee for the employer.
     (b) To the extent a provision in an employment agreement purports to require an employee to assign an invention otherwise excluded from being required to be assigned under subdivision (a), the provision is against the public policy of this state and is unenforceable.


