FILE:OMC/OMC-8K-20080130105530.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
     
        Check the appropriate box if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On January 29, 2008, Omnicom Group Inc. (the "Company") announced that the Federal Court presiding over , 02 CV 4483 (S.D.N.Y.), granted the Company's motion for summary judgment, rejected plaintiffs' claim for securities fraud in its entirety, and directed the Clerk of the Court to "close the case."
In re Omnicom Group Inc. Securities Litigation
A copy of the press release announcing the summary judgment is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
        (d) Exhibits.
        The following is furnished herewith:
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
New York, New York, January 29, 2008  Omnicom Group Inc. (OMC) today announced that the Federal Court presiding over , 02 CV 4483 (S.D.N.Y.), granted Omnicom's motion for summary judgment, rejecting plaintiffs' claim for securities fraud in its entirety and directing the Clerk of the Court to "close the case."
In re Omnicom Group Inc. Securities Litigation
Today's decision, which comes after years of discovery, held that plaintiffs lacked evidence of a central element of their claim  the element of "loss causation." After analyzing the evidence, the Court concluded that it "is not persuaded that Plaintiffs have presented facts sufficient to support" their claim, and that "there is simply no way for a juror to determine whether the alleged fraud caused any portion of Plaintiffs' loss."
"We are extremely pleased with the Court's decision," said Michael J. O'Brien, Omnicom's senior vice president and general counsel. "We defended this case vigorously for more than five years," he said, "because we have always believed strongly that plaintiffs' allegations were baseless, and it is gratifying now to have the Court dismiss the case."
Omnicom Group Inc. (NYSE: OMC) (). Omnicom is a leading global advertising, marketing and corporate communications company. Omnicom's branded networks and numerous specialty firms provide advertising, strategic media planning and buying, digital and interactive marketing, direct and promotional marketing, public relations and other specialty communications services to over 5,000 clients in more than 100 countries.
www.omnicomgroup.com


