FILE:OMC/OMC-8K-20100311191055.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
March 9, 2010
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Charter)
OMNICOM GROUP INC.
Registrants' telephone number, including area code:
(212) 415-3600
(Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report)
Not Applicable
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On March 10, 2010, Omnicom Group Inc. (the "Company") announced that on March 9, 2010 the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, in the case captioned , 08-0612-CV, affirmed the federal district court's January 29, 2008 decision granting the Company's motion for summary judgment, rejecting plaintiffs' claim for securities fraud in its entirety and terminating the case.
In re: Omnicom Group Inc. Securities Litigation
A copy of the press release announcing the decision is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits.
     The following is furnished herewith:
SIGNATURES
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Court Dismisses Omnicom Shareholder Lawsuit
New York, New York, March 10, 2010  Omnicom Group Inc. (OMC) announced today that the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit had affirmed a January 29, 2008, federal district court decision terminating a case attempting to allege securities fraud against the company.
When the trial court ruled in favor of Omnicom in January 2008, plaintiffs appealed, arguing that the trial court had committed legal errors in its decision. The appellate court rejected plaintiffs' appeal. In its decision in the case captioned In re Omnicom Group Inc. Securities Litigation, 08-0612-cv (2nd Cir.), the appellate court endorsed the trial court's decision as "thorough and well-reasoned." The appellate court concluded that plaintiffs' theory "is far too tenuously connected  indeed, by a metaphoric thread  to" the underlying transaction to support a claim.
"We are very pleased with the appellate court's thoughtful and detailed decision," said Michael J. O'Brien, Omnicom's senior vice president and general counsel. "We vigorously defended against the plaintiffs' allegations in both the trial court and in the appellate court," explained O'Brien, "because we have always firmly believed that their allegations were baseless."
About Omnicom Group Inc.
Omnicom Group Inc. (NYSE: OMC) (www.omnicomgroup.com). Omnicom is a leading global advertising, marketing and corporate communications company. Omnicom's branded networks and numerous specialty firms provide advertising, strategic media planning and buying, digital and interactive marketing, direct and promotional marketing, public relations and other specialty communications services to over 5,000 clients in more than 100 countries.


