FILE:OMC/OMC-8K-20110419082302.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, DC 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): April 19, 2011
OMNICOM GROUP INC.
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (212) 415-3600
Not Applicable
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On April 19, 2011, Omnicom Group Inc. ("Omnicom") issued an earnings release reporting its financial results for the three months ended March 31, 2011. A copy of this earnings release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto. Following the issuance of this earnings release, Omnicom hosted an earnings call in which its financial results for the three months ended March 31, 2011 were discussed. The investor presentation materials used for the call are attached as Exhibit 99.2 hereto.
     On April 19, 2011, Omnicom posted the materials attached as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 on its web site (www.omnicomgroup.com).
     As discussed on page 1 of Exhibit 99.2, the investor presentation contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. These statements are present expectations, and are subject to the limitations listed therein and in Omnicom's other SEC reports, including that actual events or results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements.
     The foregoing information (including the exhibits hereto) is being furnished under "Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition" and "Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure." Such information (including the exhibits hereto) shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
     See "Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition" above.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) .
Exhibits
SIGNATURES
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
2
EXHIBIT INDEX
3

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Omnicom Reports First Quarter 2011 Results
- Omnicom Group Inc. (NYSE-OMC) today announced that its net income for the first quarter of 2011 increased 23.6% to $201.9 million from $163.4 million in the first quarter of 2010. Omnicom's diluted net income per common share in the first quarter of 2011 increased 32.7% to $0.69 per share from $0.52 per share in the first quarter of 2010.
NEW YORK, APRIL 19, 2011
Worldwide revenue for the first quarter of 2011 increased 7.9% to $3,151.3 million from $2,920.0 million in the first quarter of 2010. Domestic revenue for the first quarter of 2011 increased 3.8% to $1,652.5 million compared to $1,592.8 million in the first quarter of 2010. International revenue for the first quarter of 2011 increased 12.9% to $1,498.8 million compared to $1,327.2 million in the first quarter of 2010.
Omnicom Group Inc. (NYSE-OMC) (www.omnicomgroup.com) is a leading global marketing and corporate communications company. Omnicom's branded networks and numerous specialty firms provide advertising, strategic media planning and buying, digital and interactive marketing, direct and promotional marketing, public relations and other specialty communications services to over 5,000 clients in more than 100 countries.
For a live webcast and/or a replay of our first quarter earnings conference call, go to www.omnicomgroup.com/InvestorRelations.
437 Madison Avenue, New York, NY 10022 Tel (212) 415-3600 Fax (212) 415-3530
(Unaudited) (In Millions of Dollars, Except Per Share Data)
Omnicom Group Inc.

Exhibit 99.2
Disclosure
The following materials have been prepared for use in the April 19, 2011 conference call on Omnicom's results of operations for the period ended March 31, 2011. The call will be archived on the Internet at http://www. omnicomgroup. com/financialwebcasts.
Forward
-Looking Statements
Certain of the statements in this document constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In addition, from time to time, we or our representatives have made or may make forward-looking statements,
orally or in writing. These statements relate to future events or future financial performance and involve known and unknown risks and other factors that may cause our actual or our industry's results, levels of activity or achievement to be materially different from those expressed or implied by any forward
-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties, including those that are described in our 2010 Annual Report of Form 10-K under Item 1A - Risk Factors and Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, include, but are not limited to, our future financial position and results of
operations, future global economic conditions and conditions in the credit markets, losses on media purchases and production costs incurred on behalf of clients, reductions in client spending and/or a slowdown in client payments, competitive factors, changes in client communication requirements, managing conflicts of
interest, the hiring and retention of personnel, maintaining a highly skilled workforce, our ability to attract new clients and retain existing clients, reliance on information technology systems, changes in government regulations impacting our advertising and marketing strategies, risks associated with assumptions we make in connection
with our critical accounting estimates and legal proceedings, and our international operations, which are subject to the risks of currency fluctuations and foreign exchange controls. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as "may," "will," "could," "would," "should," "expect,"
"plan," "anticipate," "intend," "believe," "estimate," "predict," "potential" or "continue" or the negative of those terms or other comparable terminology. These statements are our present expectations. Actual events or results may differ. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement,
except as required by law.
Non-GAAP
Financial Measures
We provide herein financial measures determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP") and adjustments to the GAAP presentation ("Non-GAAP") which we believe are meaningful
for understanding our performance. Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information presented in compliance with GAAP. Non-GAAP financial measures as reported by us may not be comparable to similarly
titled amounts reported by other companies. We provide a reconciliation of non-GAAP measures to the comparable GAAP measures on pages 27 and 28, as well as pages 3, 23 and 24.
The measures used in this presentation include the following:
Net Free Cash Flow
,
defined as Free Cash Flow (defined below) less the Primary Uses of Cash (defined below). Net Free Cash Flow is one of the metrics used by us to assess our sources and uses of cash and was derived from our consolidated statements
of cash flows. We believe that this presentation is meaningful for understanding our primary sources and primary uses of that cash flow.
Free Cash Flow,
defined
as net income plus depreciation, amortization and share based compensation expense less other non-cash items to reconcile to net cash provided
by operating activities and capital expenditures.
Primary Uses of Cash
,
defined as dividends to common shareholders, dividends paid to noncontrolling interest shareholders, cash paid on acquisitions, payments for additional interest in controlled subsidiaries and stock repurchases, net of the
proceeds and excess tax benefit from our stock plans, and excludes changes in working capital and other investing and financing activities, including commercial paper issuances and redemptions used to fund these working capital changes.
EBITDA
,
defined as operating income before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. We believe EBITDA is more meaningful for purposes of this analysis because the financial covenants in our credit facilities are based on EBITDA.
EBITA
,
defined as operating income before interest, taxes and amortization. We use EBITA as an additional operating performance measure, which excludes acquisition-related amortization expense, because we believe that EBITA is a useful measure to evaluate the performance of our businesses.
Net Debt,
defined
as total debt less cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. We believe net debt, together with the comparable U.S. GAAP measures, reflects one of the metrics used by us to assess our cash management.
After Tax Operating Income
,
defined as operating income less income taxes calculated using the effective tax rate for the applicable period.
Other
Information
All dollar amounts are in millions except for per share amounts. The following financial information contained in this document has not been audited, although some of it has been derived from Omnicom's historical financial statements, including its audited financial statements. In addition, industry, operational and other non-financial data contained in this document have been derived from sources we believe to be reliable, but we have not independently verified such information, and we do not, nor does any other person, assume responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of that information. Certain amounts in prior periods have been reclassified to conform to our current presentation.
The inclusion of information in this presentation does not mean that such information is material or that disclosure of such information is required.
2011 vs. 2010 P&L Summary
2011 Non-GAAP Measures  Impact of Remeasurement Gain and Repositioning Actions
The table above presents the impact of the remeasurement gain and repositioning actions taken in the first quarter.
We recorded a $123.4 million non-cash gain resulting from the remeasurement to fair value of our existing ownership interests in the Clemenger Group, our
affiliate in Australia and New Zealand, in which we acquired a controlling interest. The acquisition brought our ownership up to 74.7% from 46.7%. The difference between the fair value of our shares in Clemenger Group at the acquisition date and the carrying value of our investment held prior to the
acquisition resulted in the remeasurement gain.
We recognized repositioning charges of $131.3 million that were the result of our strategic review that is focused on improving our strategic position and operations. Our repositioning actions included $92.8 million in severance costs and $38.5 million in lease termination,
asset and goodwill write-offs, net of gain on dispositions.
See pages 23 and 24 for a reconciliation of the effect of the remeasurement gain and repositioning actions recognized in the first quarter of 2011 on operating expense and income before income taxes.
2011 Total Revenue Change
2011 Revenue by Discipline
2011 Revenue by Geography
Revenue By Industry
Charts represent the amount of revenue attributable to each industry expressed as a percentage of the total revenue from Omnicom's clients for the three months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
Cash Flow Performance
The Free Cash Flow, Primary Uses of Cash and Net Free Cash Flow amounts presented above are Non-GAAP financial measures. See page 1 for the definition of these measures and page 28 for the reconciliation of Non-GAAP measures.
Additional information regarding our cash flows can be found in our condensed cash flow statement on page 25.
Current Credit Picture
Long-term Credit Ratings :
(a)
BBB+ (S&P) Baa1
(Moody's), A- (Fitch)
Outlook :
(a)
Stable (S&P,
Moody's & Fitch)
Current Liquidity Picture
Historical Returns
 
Omnicom Debt Structure
The above chart sets forth Omnicom's debt outstanding at March 31, 2011. The amounts reflected above for the 2016, 2019 and 2020 Senior Notes represent the principal amount of these notes at maturity on April 15, 2016, July 15, 2019 and August 15, 2020, respectively.
Omnicom Debt Maturity Profile
Our 2032 Convertible Notes are putable on August 1, 2011 and annually in July thereafter until maturity. Our 2038 Convertible Notes are putable in June 2013, 2018, 2023 and annually thereafter until maturity.
Other borrowings at March 31, 2011 include short-term borrowings of $64 million which are due in less than one year. For purposes of this presentation we have included these borrowings as outstanding through December 2013, the date of expiration of our three-year credit
facility.
In August 2010, we entered into a series of interest rate swap agreements to hedge the risk of changes in fair value of the $1 billion aggregate principal amount of our 5.90% Senior Notes due April 15, 2016 ("2016 Notes") attributable to changes in the benchmark interest
rate. Under the terms of these agreements, we will receive fixed interest rate payments and will make variable interest rate payments on the total principal value of the 2016 Notes. These agreements effectively convert the 2016 Notes from fixed rate debt to floating rate debt from the inception of the swaps through the maturity
of the 2016 Notes. The swap agreements qualify as a hedge for accounting purposes at inception and at March 31, 2011 and are designated as a fair value hedge on the 2016 Notes. The variable interest rate we pay is based on the one month and three month U.S. LIBOR rate, flat. The fixed rate we receive is 1.766%. The swaps mature on April 15, 2016, the same day as the 2016 Notes.
Current Bank Credit Facility
Senior Notes Due 2016
In August 2010, we entered into a series of interest rate swap agreements to hedge the risk of changes in fair value of the $1 billion aggregate principal amount of our 5.90% Senior Notes due April 15, 2016 ("2016 Notes") attributable to changes in the benchmark interest rate. Under the terms of these agreements, we will receive fixed
interest rate payments and will make variable interest rate payments on the total principal value of the 2016 Notes. These agreements effectively convert the 2016 Notes from fixed rate debt to floating rate debt from the inception of the swaps through the maturity of the 2016 Notes. The swap agreements qualify as a hedge for accounting purposes
at inception and at March 31, 2011 and are designated as a fair value hedge on the 2016 Notes. The variable interest rate we pay is based on the one month and three month U.S. LIBOR rate, flat. The fixed rate we receive is 1.766%. The swaps mature on April 15, 2016, the same day as the 2016 Notes.
Senior Notes Due 2019
Senior Notes Due 2020
2032 Convertible Notes
2038 Convertible Notes
 
2011 vs. 2010 Earnings Per Share
2011 Non-GAAP Measures  Impact of Remeasurement Gain and Repositioning Actions on Operating Expenses
The table above presents the impact of the remeasurement gain and repositioning actions taken in the first quarter.
We recorded a $123.4 million non-cash gain resulting from the remeasurement to fair value of our existing ownership interests in the Clemenger Group, our
affiliate in Australia and New Zealand, in which we acquired a controlling interest. The acquisition brought our ownership up to 74.7% from 46.7%. The difference between the fair value of our shares in Clemenger Group at the acquisition date and the carrying value of our investment held prior to the
acquisition resulted in the remeasurement gain.
W
e recognized repositioning charges of $131.3 million that were the result of our strategic review that is focused on improving our strategic position and operations. Our repositioning actions included $92.8 million in severance costs and $38.5 million in lease termination charges, and goodwill
and asset write-offs, net of gain on dispositions.
2011 Non-GAAP Measures  Impact of Remeasurement Gain and Repositioning Actions on Income Taxes
The table above presents Income Before Income Taxes, as adjusted and Income Taxes, as adjusted. These are Non-GAAP financial measures. Both Income Before Income Taxes, as adjusted and Income Taxes, as
adjusted exclude the gain on the remeasurement of our equity interest in Clemenger Group and the repositioning charges recognized in the first quarter of 2011, as well as the tax provision we recorded in accordance with ASC 740 (FIN 48) accrual during the quarter.
We recorded a $123.4 million non-cash gain resulting from the remeasurement to fair value of our existing ownership interests in the Clemenger Group, our affiliate in Australia and New Zealand, in which we acquired a controlling interest.
The acquisition brought our ownership up to 74.7% from 46.7%. The difference between the fair value of our shares in Clemenger Group at the acquisition date and the carrying value of our investment held prior to the acquisition resulted in the remeasurement gain.
We recognized repositioning charges of $131.3 million that were the result of our
strategic review that is focused on improving our strategic position and operations. Our repositioning actions included $92.8 million in severance costs and $38.5 million in lease termination charges, and goodwill and asset write-offs, net of gain on dispositions.
Condensed Cash Flow
2011 Acquisition Related Expenditures
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures
The above reconciles EBITDA & EBITA to the GAAP financial measures for the periods presented.
EBITDA and EBITA are non-GAAP financial measures within the meaning of applicable SEC rules and regulations. Our credit facility defines EBITDA as earnings before deducting interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization. Our credit facility uses
EBITDA to measure our compliance with covenants, such as interest coverage and leverage ratios as presented on page 9 of this presentation.
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures
First Quarter Acquisition
BBDO has purchased a controlling interest in Clemenger Group Limited.
Clemenger has operated as an affiliate of the BBDO network since 1973 and is Australia and New Zealand's largest marketing and communications group, with over 40 offices offering a full spectrum of marketing services including general advertising, CRM, consultancy and specialized marketing services.
Clemenger is headquartered in Melbourne, with additional agencies in Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart, Australia and in Auckland and Wellington, New Zealand.
First Quarter Acquisition
Founded in 1999, Communispace provides online consumer research services for the world's leading brands.
Communispace uses innovative market research practices and proprietary social media tools to build and manage vibrant online communities that marketers use to test ideas, generate feedback and gain insights into consumer attitudes and outlook.
Headquartered in Watertown, Massachusetts, Communispace will operate within the Diversified Agency Services network.
First Quarter Acquisition
Voce Communications is an award winning marketing and communications company. Founded in 1999, Voce helps clients build better brands through content creation and community engagement using a combination of public relations, social media marketing and web development strategies.
Located in Sunnyvale and San Francisco, California and Orlando, Florida, Voce Communications will operate as part of Porter Novelli group within the Diversified Agency Services network.
First Quarter Acquisition
Founded in 1998, Fanscape is a leading Social Media Marketing Agency, helping clients reach and activate consumers to foster digital "word of mouth", brand awareness and positive engagement. Fanscape engages consumers and inspires word of mouth communication through fan & influencer outreach, site and blog integrations, digital content distribution, and social network loyalty & engagement services.
Located in Los Angeles, California, Fanscape will operate as part of the Marketing Arm division within the Diversified Agency Services network.
First Quarter Acquisition
Saffirio Tortelli Vigoriti is a full service advertising agency. Founded in 2004, STV has expertise in the automotive and banking industries.
The company is headquartered in Turin, Italy and will merge with DDB Milan. It will operate as part of DDB Worldwide.
First Quarter Acquisition
Founded in 1995, EJE is a leading full-service group in Puerto Rico. EJE provides traditional and non-traditional advertising in both mass media and online.
Based in San Juan, Puerto Rico, the company will operate as DDB Puerto Rico Group.


