FILE:OMC/OMC-8K-20110215075912.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, DC 20549
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): February 15, 2011
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (212) 415-3600
Not Applicable
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On February 15, 2011, Omnicom Group Inc. ("Omnicom") issued an earnings release reporting its financial results for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2010. A copy of this earnings release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto. Following the issuance of this earnings release, Omnicom hosted an earnings call in which its financial results for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2010 were discussed. The investor presentation materials used for the call are attached as Exhibit 99.2 hereto.
     On February 15, 2011, Omnicom posted the materials attached as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 on its web site (www.omnicomgroup.com).
     As discussed on page 1 of Exhibit 99.2, the investor presentation contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. These statements are present expectations, and are subject to the limitations listed therein and in Omnicom's other SEC reports, including that actual events or results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements.
     The foregoing information (including the exhibits hereto) is being furnished under "Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition" and "Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure." Such information (including the exhibits hereto) shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
     See "Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition" above.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) .
Exhibits
SIGNATURES
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Omnicom Reports Fourth Quarter 2010 Results
- Omnicom Group Inc. (NYSE-OMC) today announced that its net income for the fourth quarter of 2010 increased 7.4% to $246.5 million from $229.6 million in the fourth quarter of 2009. Omnicom's diluted net income per common share in the fourth quarter of 2010 increased 13.7% to $0.83 per share from $0.73 per share in the fourth quarter of 2009.
NEW YORK, FEBRUARY 15, 2011
Worldwide revenue increased 9.8% to $3,586.8 million from $3,265.9 million in the fourth quarter of 2009. Domestic revenue for the fourth quarter of 2010 increased 12.6% to $1,836.4 million compared to $1,630.4 million in the fourth quarter of 2009. International revenue increased 7.0% to $1,750.4 million compared to $1,635.5 million in the fourth quarter of 2009.
Omnicom's net income for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010 increased 4.4% to $827.7 million from $793.0 million in the same period in 2009. Omnicom's diluted net income per common share for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010 increased 6.7% to $2.70 per share in 2010 from $2.53 per share in the same period in 2009.
Worldwide revenue for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010 increased 7.0% to $12,542.5 million from $11,720.7 million in the same period in 2009. Domestic revenue for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010 increased 8.2% to $6,683.1 million from $6,178.4 million in the same period in 2009. International revenue for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010 increased 5.7% to $5,859.4 million from $5,542.3 million in the same period in 2009.
Omnicom Group Inc.
Omnicom Group Inc. (NYSE-OMC) (www.omnicomgroup.com) is a leading global marketing and corporate communications company. Omnicom's branded networks and numerous specialty firms provide advertising, strategic media planning and buying, digital and interactive marketing, direct and promotional marketing, public relations and other specialty communications services to over 5,000 clients in more than 100 countries.
For a live webcast and/or a replay of our fourth quarter earnings conference call, go to .
www.omnicomgroup.com/InvestorRelations
(Unaudited) (Dollars in Millions, Except Per Share Data)
Omnicom Group Inc.
(Unaudited) (Dollars in Millions, Except Per Share Data)
Omnicom Group Inc.

Exhibit 99.2
Disclosure
The following materials have been prepared for use in the February 15, 2011 conference call on Omnicom's results of operations for the period ended December 31, 2010. The call will be archived on the Internet at http://www.omnicomgroup.com/financialwebcasts.
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain of the statements in this document constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In addition, from time to time, we or our representatives have made or may make forward-looking statements, orally or in writing. These statements relate to future events or future financial performance and involve known and unknown risks and other factors that may cause our actual or our industry's results, levels of activity, or achievement to be materially different from those expressed or implied by any forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, our future financial position and results of operations, future global economic conditions and conditions in the credit markets, losses on media purchases and production costs incurred on behalf of clients, reductions in client spending and/or a slowdown in client payments, competitive factors, changes in client communication requirements, the hiring and retention of personnel, maintaining a highly skilled workforce, our ability to attract new clients and retain existing clients, reliance on information technology systems, changes in government regulations impacting our advertising and marketing strategies, risks associated with assumptions we make in connection with our critical accounting estimates, legal proceedings, settlements, investigations and claims, and our international operations, which are subject to the risks of currency fluctuations and foreign exchange controls. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as "may," "will," "could," "would," "should," "expect," "plan," "anticipate," "intend," "believe," "estimate," "predict," "potential" or "continue" or the negative of those terms or other comparable terminology. These statements are our present expectations. Actual events or results may differ. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, except as required by law.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
We provide herein financial measures determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP") and adjustments to the GAAP presentation ("non-GAAP") which we believe are meaningful for understanding our performance. Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information presented in compliance with GAAP. Non-GAAP financial measures as reported by us may not be comparable to similarly titled amounts reported by other companies. We provide a reconciliation of non-GAAP measures to the comparable GAAP measures on pages 27 and 28.
The measures used in this presentation include the following:
Net Free Cash Flow
, defined as Free Cash Flow (defined below) less the Primary Uses of Cash (defined below). Net Free Cash Flow is one of the metrics used by us to assess our sources and uses of cash and was derived from our consolidated statements of cash flows. We believe that this presentation is meaningful for understanding our primary sources and primary uses of that cash flow.
Free Cash Flow,
defined as net income plus depreciation, amortization and share based compensation expense less other non-cash items to reconcile to net cash provided by operating activities and capital expenditures.
Primary Uses of Cash
, defined as dividends to common shareholders, dividends paid to noncontrolling interest shareholders, cash paid on acquisitions, payments for additional interest in controlled subsidiaries and stock repurchases, net of the proceeds and excess tax benefit from our stock plans, and excludes changes in working capital and other investing and financing activities, including commercial paper issuances and redemptions used to fund these working capital changes.
EBITDA
, defined as operating income before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. We believe EBITDA is more meaningful for purposes of this analysis because the financial covenants in our credit facilities are based on EBITDA.
EBITA
, defined as operating income before interest, taxes and amortization. We use EBITA as an additional operating performance measure, which excludes acquisition-related amortization expense, because we believe that EBITA is a useful measure to evaluate the performance of our businesses.
Net Debt,
defined as total debt less cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. We believe net debt, together with the comparable U.S. GAAP measures, reflects one of the metrics used by us to assess our cash management.
After Tax Operating Income
, defined as operating income less income taxes calculated using the effective tax rate for the applicable period.
Other Information
All dollar amounts are in millions except for per share amounts. The following financial information contained in this document has not been audited, although some of it has been derived from Omnicom's historical financial statements, including its audited financial statements. In addition, industry, operational and other non-financial data contained in this document have been derived from sources we believe to be reliable, but we have not independently verified such information, and we do not, nor does any other person, assume responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of that information. Certain amounts in prior periods have been reclassified to conform to our current presentation.
The inclusion of information in this presentation does not mean that such information is material or that disclosure of such information is required.
2010 vs. 2009 P&L Summary
2010 Total Revenue Change
2010 Revenue by Discipline
 
 
2010 Revenue By Geography
 
 
Revenue By Industry
 
Charts represent the amount of revenue attributable to each industry expressed as a percentage of the total revenue from Omnicom's current 1,000 largest clients for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
Cash Flow Performance
The Free Cash Flow, Primary Uses of Cash and Net Free Cash Flow amounts presented above are non-GAAP financial measures. See page 1 for the definition of these measures and page 28 for the reconciliation of non-GAAP measures.
Additional information regarding our cash flows can be found in our condensed cash flow statement on page 24.
Current Credit Picture
Current Liquidity Picture
Historical Returns
Omnicom Debt Structure
The above chart sets forth Omnicom's debt outstanding at December 31, 2010. The amounts reflected above for the 2016, 2019 and 2020 Senior Notes represent the principal amount of these notes at maturity on April 15, 2016, July 15, 2019 and August 15, 2020, respectively.
Omnicom Debt Maturity Profile
Our 2032 Convertible Notes are putable on August 1, 2011 and annually in July thereafter until maturity. Our 2038 Convertible Notes are putable in June 2013, 2018, 2023 and annually thereafter until maturity.
Other borrowings at December 31, 2010 include short-term borrowings of $52 million which are due in less than one year. For purposes of this presentation we have included these borrowings as outstanding through December 2013, the date of expiration of our three-year credit facility.
In August 2010, we entered into a series of interest rate swap agreements to hedge the risk of changes in fair value of the $1 billion aggregate principal amount of our 5.90% Senior Notes due April 15, 2016 ("2016 Notes"). Under the terms of these agreements, we will receive fixed interest rate payments and will make variable interest rate payments on the total principal value of the 2016 Notes. These agreements effectively convert the 2016 Notes from fixed rate debt to floating rate debt from the inception of the swaps through the maturity of the 2016 Notes. The swap agreements qualify as a hedge for accounting purposes at inception and at December 31, 2010 and are designated as a fair value hedge on the 2016 Notes. The variable interest rate we pay is based on the one month and three month U.S. LIBOR rate, flat. The fixed rate we receive is 1.766%. The swaps mature on April 15, 2016, the same day as the 2016 Notes.
Current Bank Credit Facility
Senior Notes Due 2016
In August 2010, we entered into a series of interest rate swap agreements to hedge the risk of changes in fair value of the $1 billion aggregate principal amount of our 5.90% Senior Notes due April 15, 2016 ("2016 Notes"). Under the terms of these agreements, we will receive fixed interest rate payments and will make variable interest rate payments on the total principal value of the 2016 Notes. These agreements effectively convert the 2016 Notes from fixed rate debt to floating rate debt from the inception of the swaps through the maturity of the 2016 Notes. The swap agreements qualify as a hedge for accounting purposes at inception and at December 31, 2010 and are designated as a fair value hedge on the 2016 Notes. The variable interest rate we pay is based on the one month and three month U.S. LIBOR rate, flat. The fixed rate we receive is 1.766%. The swaps mature on April 15, 2016, the same day as the 2016 Notes.
Senior Notes Due 2019
Senior Notes Due 2020
2032 Convertible Notes
2038 Convertible Notes
Current Omnicom Credit Ratings
Reflects credit ratings as of February 14, 2011.
2010 vs. 2009 Earnings Per Share
Operating Expenses
Condensed Cash Flow
2010 Acquisition Related Expenditures
Number of Employees
Number of employees figures above include our full-time employees and equivalents for our consolidated subsidiaries at the end of the applicable period. Employees of our non-consolidated affiliate entities are not included in the figures above.
Reconciliation of non-GAAP Measures
The above reconciles EBITDA & EBITA to the GAAP financial measures for the periods presented.
EBITDA and EBITA are non-GAAP financial measures within the meaning of applicable SEC rules and regulations. Our credit facility defines EBITDA as earnings before deducting interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization. Our credit facility uses EBITDA to measure our compliance with covenants, such as interest coverage and leverage ratios as presented on pages 8 & 14 of this presentation.
Reconciliation of non-GAAP Measures
Fourth Quarter Acquisition
The Core is an award-winning design and communications agency. Founded in 1990, The Core offers clients a range of services including branding, packaging design, innovation and advertising.
Located in London, Hull and Leeds, UK, The Core will operate as an aligned agency of Hornall Anderson within the Diversified Agency Services network.
Fourth Quarter Acquisition
Excerpta Medica is a full service medical communications agency. Its portfolio of strategic communications services includes publication planning, medical meetings and education, interactive solutions and customized publishing solutions.
With offices in Amsterdam, London and New Jersey, Excerpta Medica will operate as part of the Adelphi Group of companies within the Diversified Agency Services network.
Fourth Quarter Acquisition
Art Meets Commerce Interactive is a "new media" agency, specializing in the Theatre industry. Founded in 2007, Art Meets Commerce crafts innovative campaigns that attract new audiences, keep current customers interested and increase sales through social networking, email marketing, promotional campaigns, fan engagement and community building. Services include website design and development, copywriting, flash animation and video integration, content creation and management, statistical analysis, usability consultation and regular site maintenance.
Art Meets Commerce is based in New York, New York and will align with Serino Coyne within the Diversified Agency Services network.
Fourth Quarter Acquisition
Nancy Bailey & Associates is a full-service licensing agency that was established in 1982 specializing in the development and management of corporate licensing programs, primarily for Fortune 100 companies.
Nancy Bailey & Associates is headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia and will be part of the Beanstalk Group within the Diversified Agency Services network.
Fourth Quarter Acquisition
The Modellers is a high-end analytics and advanced quantitative design, analysis and programming group that was established in 1998. The Modellers specialize in product line optimization, marketing mix analysis, customer satisfaction and brand positioning for a broad range of industries including technology, banking, food & beverage, entertainment, travel, government and pharmaceutical.
The Modellers is headquartered in Salt Lake City, Utah and will operate within the Diversified Agency Services network.
Fourth Quarter Acquisition
Ketchum, a leading global public relations consultancy, purchased a controlling interest in its operations in Greater China. The company has recognized expertise in corporate communications, public affairs, issues and crisis management and the technology sector throughout the Greater China region.
Headquarters for Ketchum Greater China is in Hong Kong, with offices in Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, China and Taipei, Taiwan. Ketchum is a subsidiary within the Diversified Agency Services network.
Fourth Quarter Acquisition
Maslov PR is a full-service public relations company specializing in brand marketing, corporate and technology disciplines. The company provides strategic counsel to a number of multinational clients in the areas of brand marketing communications, public affairs, crisis communications, issues management, reputation management, internal communications and investor relations.
The Company is located in Moscow, Russia and will operate as part of Ketchum within the Diversified Agency Services network.
Fourth Quarter Acquisition
DDB purchased a controlling interest in DDB Colombia Group. The company has operated as an affiliate of the DDB network since 1998, and is a fully integrated marketing services group; with expertise in direct marketing and CRM, digital advertising, public relations, mobile marketing, events, promotions and strategic consulting.
The company is headquartered in Bogota, Colombia and has additional offices in Medellin and Cali.


