FILE:OMC/OMC-8K-20111013153227.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): October 12, 2011
 
OMNICOM GROUP INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
 
Registrants telephone number, including area code: (212) 415-3600
 
Not Applicable
 
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
[  ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[  ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On October 12, 2011, Omnicom Group Inc. () and its wholly owned subsidiaries Omnicom Capital Inc. and Omnicom Finance plc (the  and, together with Omnicom Group, the ) entered into an Amended and Restated Five Year Credit Agreement (the ) with the lenders named therein (the ), Citigroup Global Markets Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, as lead arrangers and book managers, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Bank of America, N.A., as syndication agents, HSBC Bank USA, National Association, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association and Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria, S.A. New York Branch, as documentation agents, and Citibank, N.A., as administrative agent for the Lenders (the ). The Credit Agreement has a maturity date of October 12, 2016. Under the Credit Agreement, the Lenders committed to provide advances in an aggregate amount of up to US$2,500,000,000 (. Interest on the borrowings under the Credit Agreement is payable at a base rate or Eurocurrency rate, in either case plus an applicable margin and fees. Borrowings under the Credit Agreement may be used for general corporate purposes of the Borrowers and their subsidiaries, including, without limitation, as commercial paper liquidity support and to fund acquisitions not prohibited under the Credit Agreement.
Omnicom Group
Borrowers
Loan Parties
Credit Agreement
Lenders
Agent
with a commitment increase without further amendment at the option of Omnicom Group of up to US$500,000,000 for an aggregate amount of up to US$3,000,000,000) of which up to US$100,000,000 may be in the form of letters of credit at the request of a Borrower
 
The terms of the Credit Agreement include representations and warranties, affirmative and negative covenants (including certain financial covenants) and events of default that are customary for credit facilities of this nature. Upon the occurrence, and during the continuance, of an event of default, including but not limited to nonpayment of principal when due, nonpayment of interest within three business days after it becomes due, failure to perform or observe certain terms, covenants or agreements under the Credit Agreement, and certain defaults of other indebtedness, the Agent may terminate the obligation of the Lenders under the Credit Agreement to make advances and issue letters of credit and declare any outstanding obligations under the Credit Agreement immediately due and payable. In addition, in the event of an actual or deemed entry of an order for relief with respect to any Loan Party under the Federal Bankruptcy Code, the obligation of the Lenders to make advances and issue letters of credit shall automatically terminate and any outstanding obligations under the Credit Agreement shall immediately become due and payable. Subject to the terms and conditions of the Credit Agreement, Omnicom Group may request that the Lenders commitments under the Credit Agreement be increased, provided that in no event may the aggregate amount of the Lenders commitments under the Credit Agreement at any time exceed US$3,000,000,000.
 
The obligations of the Borrowers under the Credit Agreement are guaranteed by Omnicom Group.
 
The foregoing description of the Credit Agreement does not purport to be a complete statement of the parties rights and obligations under the Credit Agreement and the transactions
contemplated by the Credit Agreement. The foregoing description of the Credit Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Credit Agreement, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
The information described above under Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
The following exhibit is filed as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: October 13, 2011
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 10.1
EXECUTION COPY
U.S. $2,500,000,000
AMENDED AND RESTATED FIVE YEAR CREDIT AGREEMENT
Dated as of October 12, 2011,
Among
OMNICOM CAPITAL INC.
and
OMNICOM FINANCE PLC
as
Borrowers
OMNICOM GROUP INC.
as
Guarantor
THE INITIAL LENDERS NAMED HEREIN
as
Initial
Lenders
CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS INC.,
J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES LLC
and
MERRILL LYNCH, PIERCE, FENNER & SMITH INCORPORATED
as
Lead
Arrangers
and
Book
Managers
JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A.
and
BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.
as
Syndication
Agents
HSBC BANK USA, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,
WELLS FARGO BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
and
BANCO BILBAO VIZCAYA ARGENTARIA, S.A. NEW YORK BRANCH
as
Documentation
Agents
and
CITIBANK, N.A.
as
Administrative
Agent
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS
 
 
 
 
Schedules
Schedule I  Commitments of the Initial Lenders and the Initial Issuing Banks
Schedule 2.01(b)  Existing Letters of Credit
Schedule 3.01(b) - Disclosed Litigation
Schedule 5.02(a) - Existing Liens
Schedule 5.02(d) - Existing Debt
Exhibits
Exhibit A - Form of Note
Exhibit B - Form of Notice of Borrowing
Exhibit C - Form of Assignment and Assumption
Exhibit D-1 - Form of Opinion of New York Counsel for the Loan Parties
Exhibit D-2 - Form of Opinion of English Counsel for OFP
 
AMENDED AND RESTATED FIVE YEAR CREDIT AGREEMENT
Dated as of October 12, 2011
OMNICOM CAPITAL INC., a Connecticut corporation (), and OMNICOM FINANCE PLC, a public limited company organized under the laws of England and Wales (; OCI and OFP are each a  and collectively, the ), OMNICOM GROUP INC., a New York corporation (the ), the banks, financial institutions and other institutional lenders (the ) and initial issuing banks (the ) listed on the signature pages hereof, CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS INC., J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES LLC and MERRILL LYNCH, PIERCE, FENNER & SMITH INCORPORATED, as lead arrangers and book managers, JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A. and BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., as syndication agents, HSBC BANK USA, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, WELLS FARGO BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION and BANCO BILBAO VIZCAYA ARGENTARIA, S.A. NEW YORK BRANCH, as documentation agents, and CITIBANK, N.A. (), as administrative agent (the ) for the Lenders (as hereinafter defined), agree as follows:
OCI
OFP
Borrower
Borrowers
Guarantor
Initial Lenders
Initial Issuing Banks
Citibank
Agent
PRELIMINARY STATEMENT. The Borrowers, the Guarantor, the lenders parties thereto and Citibank, as agent, are parties to an Amended and Restated Three Year Credit Agreement dated as of December 9, 2010 (the ). Subject to the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 3.01, the Borrowers, the Guarantor, the lenders parties hereto and Citibank, as Agent, desire to amend and restate the Existing Credit Agreement as herein set forth.
Existing Credit Agreement
ARTICLE I
DEFINITIONS AND ACCOUNTING TERMS
SECTION 1.01. . As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings (such meanings to be equally applicable to both the singular and plural forms of the terms defined):
Certain Defined Terms
 means an Administrative Questionnaire in a form supplied by the Agent and completed by Lenders specifying their Domestic Lending Office and Eurocurrency Lending Office, among other information.
Administrative Questionnaire
 means an advance by an Issuing Bank or a Lender pursuant to Section 2.03(c) or by a Lender to a Borrower as part of a Borrowing pursuant to Section 2.01 and may refer to a Base Rate Advance or a Eurocurrency Rate Advance (each of which shall be a Type of Advance).
Advance
 means, as to any Person, any other Person (other than an individual) that, directly or indirectly, controls, is controlled by or is under common control with such Person; provided that, for purposes of Section 5.01(h), an Affiliate of a Borrower shall include any Person that (x) is a director or officer of such Person or (y) has the possession, direct or indirect, of the power to vote 5% or more of the Voting Stock of such Person. A Person shall be deemed to control another Person if such Person possesses, directly or indirectly, the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of Voting Stock, by contract or otherwise.
Affiliate
 means (a) in the case of Advances denominated in Dollars, the account of the Agent maintained by the Agent at Citibank at its office at 1615 Brett Road, Building #3, New Castle, Delaware 19720, Account No. 36852248, Attention: Bank Loan Syndications, (b) in the case of Advances denominated in any Committed Currency, the account of the Sub-Agent designated in writing from time to time by the Agent to the Borrowers and the Lenders for such purpose and (c) in any such case, such other account of the Agent as is designated in writing from time to time by the Agent to the Borrowers and the Lenders for such purpose.
Agents Account
 has the meaning specified in Section 9.02(d)(ii).
Agent Parties
 means, with respect to each Lender, such Lenders Domestic Lending Office in the case of a Base Rate Advance and such Lenders Eurocurrency Lending Office in the case of a Eurocurrency Rate Advance.
Applicable Lending Office
 means as of any date, a percentage per annum determined by reference to the Public Debt Rating in effect on such date as set forth below:
Applicable Margin
 
 means, as of any date, a percentage per annum determined by reference to the Public Debt Rating in effect on such date as set forth below:
Applicable Percentage
 
 means any Fund that is administered or managed by (a) a Lender, (b) an Affiliate of a Lender or (c) an entity or an Affiliate of an entity that administers or manages a Lender.
Approved Fund
 means an assignment and assumption entered into by a Lender and an Eligible Assignee, and accepted by the Agent, in substantially the form of Exhibit C hereto.
Assignment and Assumption
 has the meaning specified in Section 2.18(d).
Assuming Lender
 has the meaning specified in Section 2.18(d)(ii). 
Assumption Agreement
 of any Letter of Credit means, at any time, the maximum amount available to be drawn under such Letter of Credit at such time (assuming compliance at such time with all conditions to drawing).
Available Amount
 means Title 11, U.S. Code, or any similar foreign, federal or state law for the relief of debtors.
Bankruptcy Law
 means a fluctuating interest rate per annum in effect from time to time, which rate per annum shall at all times be equal to the highest of:
Base Rate
(a) the rate of interest announced publicly by Citibank in New York, New York, from time to time, as Citibanks base rate;
(b)  of one percent per annum above the Federal Funds Rate; and
(c) the British Bankers Association Interest Settlement Rate applicable to Dollars for a period of one month () plus 1.00% (for the avoidance of doubt, the One Month LIBOR for any day shall be based on the rate appearing on Reuters LIBOR01 Page (or any successor or substitute page of Reuters, or any successor to or substitute for Reuters, providing rate quotations comparable to those currently provided on such page of Reuters, as determined by the Agent from time to time for purposes of providing quotations of interest rates applicable to deposits in Dollars by reference to the British Bankers Association Interest Settlement Rates for deposits in Dollars) at approximately 11:00 A.M. London time on such day).
One Month LIBOR
 means an Advance denominated in Dollars that bears interest as provided in Section 2.07(a)(i).
Base Rate Advance
 means (a) with respect to the making of Advances (i) a borrowing consisting of simultaneous Advances of the same Type made by each of the Lenders pursuant to Section 2.01 or (ii) a borrowing consisting of the Advances made pursuant to Section 2.03(c) by each of the Lenders, other than the applicable Issuing Bank, and by such Issuing Bank, to the extent of its Ratable Share of its payment of a draft drawn on a Letter of Credit that is not reimbursed by the applicable Borrower on the date made; and (b) in other contexts (i) that portion of the Advances comprised of all outstanding Base Rate Advances and (ii) that portion of the Advances converted into, or continued as, Eurocurrency Rate Advances having the same Interest Period.
Borrowing
 means, in respect of Advances denominated in Dollars, $10,000,000, in respect of Advances denominated in Sterling, 10,000,000 and, in respect of Advances denominated in Euro, 10,000,000.
Borrowing Minimum
 means, in respect of Advances denominated in Dollars, $1,000,000 in respect of Advances denominated in Sterling, 1,000,000 and, in respect of Advances denominated in Euro, 1,000,000.
Borrowing Multiple
 means a day of the year on which banks are not required or authorized by law to close in New York City and, if the applicable Business Day relates to any Eurocurrency Rate Advances, on which dealings are carried on in the London interbank market and banks are open for business in London and in the country of issue of the currency of such Eurocurrency Rate Advance (or, in the case of an Advance denominated in Euro, on which the Trans-European Automated Real-Time Gross Settlement Express Transfer (TARGET) System is open).
Business Day
 means a Revolving Credit Commitment or a Letter of Credit Commitment.
Commitment
 has the meaning specified in Section 2.18(b).
Commitment Date
 has the meaning specified in Section 2.18(a).
Commitment Increase
 means lawful currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and Euro.
Committed Currencies
 means information that a Loan Party furnishes to the Agent or any Lender in a writing designated as confidential.
Confidential Information
 refers to the consolidation of accounts in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated
,  and  each refers to a conversion of Advances of one Type into Advances of the other Type pursuant to Section 2.08 or 2.09.
Convert
Conversion
Converted
 means the UK Corporation Tax Act 2009.
CTA
 of any Person means, without duplication, (a) all indebtedness of such Person for borrowed money, (b) all obligations of such Person for the deferred purchase price of property or services (other than earn-out payment obligations of such Person in connection with the purchase of property or services to the extent they are still contingent), (c) all obligations of such Person evidenced by notes, bonds, debentures or other similar instruments, (d) all obligations of such Person created or arising under any conditional sale or other title retention agreement with respect to property acquired by such Person (even though the rights and remedies of the seller or lender under such agreement in the event of default are limited to repossession or sale of such property), (e) all obligations of such Person as lessee under leases that have been or should be, in accordance with GAAP, recorded as capital leases, (f) all obligations, contingent or otherwise, of such Person in respect of acceptances, letters of credit or similar extensions of credit, (g) all obligations of such Person in respect of Hedge Agreements, (h) all Debt of others referred to in clauses (a) through (g) above or clause (i) below and other payment obligations guaranteed directly or indirectly in any manner by such Person, or in effect guaranteed directly or indirectly by such Person through an agreement (1) to pay or purchase such Debt or to advance or supply funds for the payment or purchase of such Debt, (2) to purchase, sell or lease (as lessee or lessor) property, or to purchase or sell services, primarily for the purpose of enabling the debtor to make payment of such Debt or to assure the holder of such Debt against loss, (3) to supply funds to or in any other manner invest in the debtor (including any agreement to pay for property or services irrespective of whether such property is received or such services are rendered) or (4) otherwise to assure a creditor against loss, and (i) all Debt referred to in clauses (a) through (h) above secured by (or for which the holder of such Debt has an existing right, contingent or otherwise, to be secured by) any Lien on property (including, without limitation, accounts and contract rights) owned by such Person, even though such Person has not assumed or become liable for the payment of such Debt.
Debt
 of any Person means all items that, in accordance with GAAP, would be classified as indebtedness on a Consolidated balance sheet of such Person.
Debt for Borrowed Money
 means any Event of Default or any event that would constitute an Event of Default but for the requirement that notice be given or time elapse or both.
Default
 means, subject to Section 2.19(d), at any time, any Lender that, at such time (a) has failed to perform any of its funding obligations hereunder, including in respect of its Advances or participations in respect of Letters of Credit, within two Business Days of the date required to be funded by it hereunder, (b) has notified the Borrowers or the Agent in writing that it does not intend to comply with its funding obligations generally or has made a public statement to that effect with respect to its funding obligations hereunder or generally under other agreements in which it commits to extend credit, (c) has failed, within three Business Days after written request by the Agent (based on its reasonable belief that such Lender may not fulfill its funding obligations hereunder), to confirm in a manner satisfactory to the Agent that it will comply with its funding obligations hereunder, provided that such Lender shall cease to be a Defaulting Lender upon receipt of such written confirmation by the Agent and the Agents written
Defaulting Lender
notice to the Defaulting Lender and the Borrowers that such confirmation is satisfactory, or (d) has, or has a direct or indirect parent company that has, (i) become the subject of a proceeding under any debtor relief law, (ii) had a receiver, conservator, trustee, administrator, assignee for the benefit of creditors or similar Person charged with reorganization or liquidation of its business or a custodian appointed for it, or (iii) taken any action in furtherance of, or indicated its consent to, approval of or acquiescence in any such proceeding or appointment; that, for the avoidance of doubt, a Lender shall not be a Defaulting Lender solely by virtue of (1) the control, ownership or acquisition of any equity interest in that Lender or any direct or indirect parent company thereof by a governmental authority or (2) in the case of a solvent Lender, the precautionary appointment of an administrator, guardian, custodian or other similar official by a government authority under or based on the law of the country where such lender is subject to home jurisdiction supervision if applicable law requires that such appointment not be publicly disclosed, so long as, in the case of clause (1) and clause (2), such action does not result in or provide such Lender with immunity from the jurisdiction of courts within the United States or from the enforcement of judgments or writs of attachment on its assets or permit such Lender (or such governmental authority or instrumentality) to reject, repudiate, disavow or disaffirm any contracts or agreements made with such Person.
provided
 has the meaning specified in Section 3.01(b).
Disclosed Litigation
 and the  sign each means lawful currency of the United States of America.
Dollars
$
 means, with respect to any Lender, the office of such Lender specified as its Domestic Lending Office in its Administrative Questionnaire delivered to the Agent, or such other office of such Lender as such Lender may from time to time specify to the Borrowers and the Agent.
Domestic Lending Office
 means, for any period, net income (or net loss) plus the sum of (a) net interest expense, (b) income tax expense, (c) depreciation expense and (d) amortization expense, in each case determined in accordance with GAAP for such period.
EBITDA
 has the meaning specified in Section 3.01.
Effective Date
 means any Person that meets the requirements to be an assignee under Section 9.07(b)(iii), (v) and (vi) (subject to such consents, if any, as may be required under Section 9.07(b)(iii)).
Eligible Assignee
 means any action, suit, demand, demand letter, claim, notice of non-compliance or violation, notice of liability or potential liability, investigation, proceeding, consent order or consent agreement relating in any way to any Environmental Law, Environmental Permit or hazardous materials or arising from alleged injury or threat of injury to health, safety or the environment, including, without limitation, (a) by any governmental or regulatory authority for enforcement, cleanup, removal, response, remedial or other actions or damages and (b) by any governmental or regulatory authority or any third party for damages, contribution, indemnification, cost recovery, compensation or injunctive relief.
Environmental Action
 means any federal, state, local or foreign statute, law, ordinance, rule, regulation, code, order, judgment, decree or judicial or agency interpretation, policy or guidance relating to pollution or protection of the environment, health, safety or natural resources, including, without limitation, those relating to the use, handling, transportation, treatment, storage, disposal, release or discharge of hazardous materials.
Environmental Law
 means any permit, approval, identification number, license or other authorization required under any Environmental Law.
Environmental Permit
 in Dollars of any Committed Currency on any date means the equivalent in Dollars of such Committed Currency determined by using the quoted spot rate at which the Sub-Agents principal office in London offers to exchange Dollars for such Committed Currency in London at approximately 4:00 P.M. (London time) (unless otherwise indicated by the terms of this Agreement) on such date as is required pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, and the Equivalent in any Committed Currency of Dollars
Equivalent
means the equivalent in such Committed Currency of Dollars determined by using the quoted spot rate at which the Sub-Agents principal office in London offers to exchange such Committed Currency for Dollars in London at approximately 4:00 P.M. (London time) (unless otherwise indicated by the terms of this Agreement) on such date as is required pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.
 means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time, and the regulations promulgated and rulings issued thereunder.
ERISA
 means any Person that for purposes of Title IV of ERISA is a member of the Guarantors controlled group, or under common control with the Guarantor, within the meaning of Section 414 of the Internal Revenue Code.
ERISA Affiliate
 means (a) (i) the occurrence of a reportable event, within the meaning of Section 4043 of ERISA, with respect to any Plan unless the 30-day notice requirement with respect to such event has been waived by the PBGC, or (ii) the requirements of subsection (1) of Section 4043(b) of ERISA (without regard to subsection (2) of such Section) are met with respect to a contributing sponsor, as defined in Section 4001(a)(13) of ERISA, of a Plan, and an event described in paragraph (9), (10), (11), (12) or (13) of Section 4043(c) of ERISA is reasonably expected to occur with respect to such Plan within the following 30 days; (b) the application for a minimum funding waiver with respect to a Plan; (c) the provision by the administrator of any Plan of a notice of intent to terminate such Plan pursuant to Section 4041(a)(2) of ERISA (including any such notice with respect to a plan amendment referred to in Section 4041(e) of ERISA); (d) the cessation of operations at a facility of the Guarantor or any ERISA Affiliate in the circumstances described in Section 4062(e) of ERISA; (e) the withdrawal by the Guarantor or any ERISA Affiliate from a Multiple Employer Plan during a plan year for which it was a substantial employer, as defined in Section 4001(a)(2) of ERISA; (f)  the conditions for the imposition of a lien under Section 303(k) of ERISA shall have been met with respect to any Plan; or (g) the institution by the PBGC of proceedings to terminate a Plan pursuant to Section 4042 of ERISA, or the occurrence of any event or condition described in Section 4042 of ERISA that constitutes grounds for the termination of, or the appointment of a trustee to administer, a Plan.
ERISA Event
 means, for any Interest Period for each Eurocurrency Rate Advance comprising part of the same Borrowing, the rate per annum appearing on Reuters EURIBOR01 page (or on any successor or substitute page of Reuters, or any successor to or substitute for Reuters, providing rate quotations comparable to those currently provided on such page of Reuters, as determined by the Agent from time to time for purposes of providing quotations of interest rates applicable to deposits in Euro by reference to the Banking Federation of the European Union Settlement Rates for deposits in Euro) at approximately 10:00 A.M., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period, as the rate for deposits in Euro with a maturity comparable to such Interest Period or, if for any reason such rate is not available, the average (rounded upward to the nearest whole multiple of 1/16 of 1% per annum, if such average is not such a multiple) of the respective rates per annum at which deposits in Euro are offered by the principal office of each of the Reference Banks in London, England to prime banks in the London interbank market at 11:00 A.M. (London time) two Business Days before the first day of such Interest Period in an amount substantially equal to such Reference Banks Eurocurrency Rate Advance comprising part of such Borrowing to be outstanding during such Interest Period and for a period equal to such Interest Period (subject, however, to the provisions of Section 2.08).
EURIBO Rate
 means the lawful currency of the European Union as constituted by the Treaty of Rome which established the European Community, as such treaty may be amended from time to time and as referred to in the EMU legislation.
Euro
 has the meaning assigned to that term in Regulation D of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, as in effect from time to time.
Eurocurrency Liabilities
 means, with respect to any Lender, the office of such Lender specified as its Eurocurrency Lending Office in its Administrative Questionnaire delivered to the Agent,
Eurocurrency Lending Office
or such other office of such Lender as such Lender may from time to time specify to the Borrowers and the Agent.
 means, for any Interest Period for each Eurocurrency Rate Advance comprising part of the same Borrowing, an interest rate per annum equal to the rate per annum obtained by dividing (a)(i) in the case of any Advance denominated in Dollars or any Committed Currency other than Euro, the rate per annum (rounded upward to the nearest whole multiple of 1/16 of 1% per annum) appearing on Reuters LIBOR01 Page (or any successor page) as the London interbank offered rate for deposits in Dollars or the applicable Committed Currency at approximately 11:00 A.M. (London time) two Business Days prior to the first day of such Interest Period for a term comparable to such Interest Period or, if for any reason such rate is not available (but subject to the provisions of Section 2.08), the average (rounded upward to the nearest whole multiple of 1/16 of 1% per annum, if such average is not such a multiple) of the rate per annum at which deposits in Dollars or the applicable Committed Currency is offered by the principal office of each of the Reference Banks in London, England to prime banks in the London interbank market at 11:00 A.M. (London time) two Business Days before the first day of such Interest Period in an amount substantially equal to such Reference Banks Eurocurrency Rate Advance comprising part of such Borrowing to be outstanding during such Interest Period and for a period equal to such Interest Period or, (ii) in the case of any Advance denominated in Euro, the EURIBO Rate by (b) a percentage equal to 100% minus the Eurocurrency Rate Reserve Percentage for such Interest Period.
Eurocurrency Rate
 means an Advance denominated in Dollars or a Committed Currency that bears interest as provided in Section 2.07(a)(ii).
Eurocurrency Rate Advance
 for any Interest Period for all Eurocurrency Rate Advances comprising part of the same Borrowing means the reserve percentage applicable two Business Days before the first day of such Interest Period under regulations issued from time to time by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (or any successor) for determining the maximum reserve requirement (including, without limitation, any emergency, supplemental or other marginal reserve requirement) for a member bank of the Federal Reserve System in New York City with respect to liabilities or assets consisting of or including Eurocurrency Liabilities (or with respect to any other category of liabilities that includes deposits by reference to which the interest rate on Eurocurrency Rate Advances is determined) having a term equal to such Interest Period.
Eurocurrency Rate Reserve Percentage
 has the meaning specified in Section 6.01.
Events of Default
 means the Revolving Credit Facility or the Letter of Credit Facility.
Facility
 means Sections 1471 through 1474 of the Internal Revenue Code, as in effect on the date hereof.
FATCA
 means, for any period, a fluctuating interest rate per annum equal for each day during such period to the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers, as published for such day (or, if such day is not a Business Day, for the next preceding Business Day) by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day that is a Business Day, the average of the quotations for such day on such transactions received by the Agent from three Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by it.
Federal Funds Rate
 means any Person (other than a natural Person) that is (or will be) engaged in making, purchasing, holding or otherwise investing in commercial loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its activities.
Fund
 has the meaning specified in Section 1.03.
GAAP
 has the meaning specified in Section 7.01.
Guaranteed Obligations
 means the provisions of Article VII.
Guaranty
 means interest rate swap, cap or collar agreements, interest rate future or option contracts, currency swap agreements, currency future or option contracts and other similar agreements.
Hedge Agreements
 has the meaning specified in Section 2.18(a).
Increase Date
 has the meaning specified in Section 2.18(b).
Increasing Lender
 means the information memorandum dated September 2011 used by the Agent in connection with the syndication of the Commitments.
Information Memorandum
 means, for each Eurocurrency Rate Advance comprising part of the same Borrowing, the period commencing on the date of such Eurocurrency Rate Advance or the date of the Conversion of any Base Rate Advance into such Eurocurrency Rate Advance and ending on the last day of the period selected by the applicable Borrower pursuant to the provisions below and, thereafter, with respect to Eurocurrency Rate Advances, each subsequent period commencing on the last day of the immediately preceding Interest Period and ending on the last day of the period selected by such Borrower pursuant to the provisions below. The duration of each such Interest Period shall be one, two, three or six months, and subject to clause (c) of this definition, nine or twelve months, as the applicable Borrower may, upon notice received by the Agent not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the third Business Day prior to the first day of such Interest Period, select; provided, however, that:
Interest Period
(a) the Borrowers may not select any Interest Period that ends after the Termination Date;
(b) Interest Periods commencing on the same date for Eurocurrency Rate Advances comprising part of the same Borrowing shall be of the same duration;
(c) in the case of any such Borrowing, the Borrowers shall not be entitled to select an Interest Period having duration of nine or twelve months unless, by 2:00 P.M. (New York City time) on the third Business Day prior to the first day of such Interest Period, each Lender notifies the Agent that such Lender will be providing funding for such Borrowing with such Interest Period (the failure of any Lender to so respond by such time being deemed for all purposes of this Agreement as an objection by such Lender to the requested duration of such Interest Period); provided that, if any or all of the Lenders object to the requested duration of such Interest Period, the duration of the Interest Period for such Borrowing shall be one, two, three or six months, as specified by the Borrower requesting such Borrowing in the applicable Notice of Borrowing as the desired alternative to an Interest Period of nine or twelve months;
(d) whenever the last day of any Interest Period would otherwise occur on a day other than a Business Day, the last day of such Interest Period shall be extended to occur on the next succeeding Business Day, provided, however, that, if such extension would cause the last day of such Interest Period to occur in the next following calendar month, the last day of such Interest Period shall occur on the next preceding Business Day; and
(e) whenever the first day of any Interest Period occurs on a day of an initial calendar month for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the calendar month that succeeds such initial calendar month by the number of months in such Interest Period, such Interest Period shall end on the last Business Day of such succeeding calendar month.
 means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, and the regulations promulgated and rulings issued thereunder.
Internal Revenue Code
 means an Initial Issuing Bank or any Eligible Assignee to which a portion of the Letter of Credit Commitments hereunder has been assigned pursuant to Section 9.07 so long as such Eligible Assignee expressly agrees to perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations that by the terms of this Agreement are required to be performed by it as an Issuing Bank and notifies the Agent of its Applicable Lending Office (which information shall be recorded by the Agent in the Register), for so long as such Initial Issuing Bank or Eligible Assignee, as the case may be, shall have a Letter of Credit Commitment.
Issuing Bank
 means the UK Income Tax Act 2007.
ITA
 means an interest bearing cash deposit account to be established and maintained by the Agent, over which the Agent shall have sole dominion and control, upon such terms as may be reasonably satisfactory to the Agent.
L/C Cash Deposit Account
 has the meaning specified in Section 2.06(b)(i).
L/C Related Documents
 means the Initial Lenders, each Issuing Bank, each Assuming Lender that shall become a party hereto pursuant to Section 2.18 and each Person that shall become a party hereto pursuant to Section 9.07.
Lenders
 has the meaning specified in Section 2.01(b).
Letter of Credit
 has the meaning specified in Section 2.03(a).
Letter of Credit Agreement
 means, with respect to each Issuing Bank, the obligation of such Issuing Bank to issue Letters of Credit for the account of the Borrowers in (a) the maximum aggregate Available Amount set forth opposite such Issuing Banks name on Schedule I hereto under the caption Letter of Credit Commitment or (b) if such Issuing Bank has entered into one or more Assignment and Assumptions, the amount set forth for such Issuing Bank in the Register maintained by the Agent pursuant to Section 9.07(c) as such Issuing Banks Letter of Credit Commitment, in each case as such amount may be reduced prior to such time pursuant to Section 2.05.
Letter of Credit Commitment
 means, at any time, an amount equal to the least of (a) the aggregate amount of the Issuing Banks Letter of Credit Commitments at such time, (b) $100,000,000 and (c) the aggregate amount of the Revolving Credit Commitments, as such amount may be reduced at or prior to such time pursuant to Section 2.05.
Letter of Credit Facility
 means any lien, security interest or other charge or encumbrance of any kind, or any other type of preferential arrangement intended to provide security for the payment or performance of an obligation, including, without limitation, the lien or retained security title of a conditional vendor and any easement, right of way or other encumbrance on title to real property.
Lien
 means each Borrower and the Guarantor.
Loan Party
 means any material adverse change in the business, condition (financial or otherwise), operations, performance or properties of the Guarantor or the Guarantor and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole.
Material Adverse Change
 means a material adverse effect on (a) the business, condition (financial or otherwise), operations, performance or properties of the Guarantor or the Guarantor and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole, (b) the rights and remedies of the Agent or any Lender under this Agreement or any Note or (c) the ability of any Loan Party to perform its obligations under this Agreement or any Note.
Material Adverse Effect
 means Moodys Investors Service, Inc.
Moodys
 means a multiemployer plan, as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA, to which the Guarantor or any ERISA Affiliate is making or accruing an obligation to make contributions, or has within any of the preceding five plan years made or accrued an obligation to make contributions.
Multiemployer Plan
 means a single employer plan, as defined in Section 4001(a)(15) of ERISA, that (a) is maintained for employees of the Guarantor or any ERISA Affiliate and at least one Person other than the Guarantor and the ERISA Affiliates or (b) was so maintained and in respect of which the Guarantor or any ERISA Affiliate could have liability under Section 4064 or 4069 of ERISA in the event such plan has been or were to be terminated.
Multiple Employer Plan
 means a promissory note of a Borrower payable to the order of any Lender, delivered pursuant to a request made under Section 2.16 in substantially the form of Exhibit A hereto, evidencing the aggregate indebtedness of such Borrower to such Lender resulting from the Advances made by such Lender to such Borrower.
Note
 has the meaning specified in Section 2.02(a).
Notice of Borrowing
 has the meaning specified in Section 2.03(a).
Notice of Issuance
 means, for any Committed Currency, such office of Citibank as shall be from time to time selected by the Agent and notified by the Agent to the Borrowers and the Lenders.
Payment Office
 means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (or any successor).
PBGC
 means such of the following as to which no enforcement, collection, execution, levy or foreclosure proceeding shall have been commenced: (a) Liens for taxes, assessments and governmental charges or levies to the extent not required to be paid under Section 5.01(b) hereof; (b) Liens imposed by law, such as materialmens, mechanics, carriers, workmens and repairmens Liens and other similar Liens arising in the ordinary course of business securing obligations that are not overdue for a period of more than 30 days or that are being contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings that prevent the forfeiture or sale of the assets subject to such Lien; (c) pledges or deposits to secure obligations under workers compensation laws or similar legislation or to secure public or statutory obligations or, in any such case, to secure reimbursement obligations under letters of credit or bonds issued to support such obligations; and (d) easements, rights of way and other encumbrances on title to real property that do not render title to the property encumbered thereby unmarketable or materially adversely affect the use of such property for its present purposes.
Permitted Liens
 means an individual, partnership, corporation (including a business trust), joint stock company, trust, unincorporated association, joint venture, limited liability company or other entity, or a government or any political subdivision or agency thereof.
Person
 means a Single Employer Plan or a Multiple Employer Plan.
Plan
 has the meaning specified in Section 7.05.
Post-Petition Interest
 means, as of any date, the rating that has been most recently announced by either S&P or Moodys, as the case may be, for any class of non-credit enhanced long-term senior unsecured debt issued by the Guarantor or, if either such rating agency shall have issued more than one such rating, the lowest such rating issued by such rating agency. For purposes of the foregoing, (a) if only one of S&P and Moodys shall have in effect a Public Debt Rating, the Applicable Margin and the Applicable Percentage shall be determined by reference to the available rating; (b) if neither S&P nor Moodys shall have in effect a Public Debt Rating, the Applicable Margin and the Applicable Percentage will be set in accordance with Level 6 under the definition of Applicable Margin or Applicable Percentage, as the case may be; (c) if the ratings established by S&P and Moodys shall fall within different levels, the Applicable Margin and the Applicable Percentage shall be based upon the higher rating
Public Debt Rating
unless such rating differs by two or more levels, in which case the applicable level will be deemed to be one level above the lower of such levels; (d) if any rating established by S&P or Moodys shall be changed, such change shall be effective as of the date on which such change is first announced publicly by the rating agency making such change; and (e) if S&P or Moodys shall change the basis on which ratings are established, each reference to the Public Debt Rating announced by S&P or Moodys, as the case may be, shall refer to the then equivalent rating by S&P or Moodys, as the case may be.
 of any amount means, with respect to any Lender at any time, the product of such amount times a fraction the numerator of which is the amount of such Lenders Revolving Credit Commitment at such time (or, if the Revolving Credit Commitments shall have been terminated pursuant to Section 2.05 or 6.01, the aggregate principal amount of such Lenders Advances) and the denominator of which is the aggregate amount of all Revolving Credit Commitments at such time (or, if the Revolving Credit Commitments shall have been terminated pursuant to Section 2.05 or 6.01, the aggregate principal amount of all outstanding Advances).
Ratable Share
 means Citibank, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., HSBC Bank USA, National Association and Bank of America, N.A.
Reference Banks
 has the meaning specified in Section 9.07(c).
Register
 means, with respect to any Person, such Persons Affiliates and the partners, directors, officers, employees, agents and advisors of such Person and of such Persons Affiliates.
Related Parties
 means at any time Lenders owed at least a majority in interest of the then aggregate unpaid principal amount (based on the Equivalent in Dollars at such time) of the Advances owing to Lenders, or, if no such principal amount is then outstanding, Lenders having at least a majority in interest of the Revolving Credit Commitments; that if any Lender shall be a Defaulting Lender at such time, there shall be excluded from the determination of Required Lenders at such time the Revolving Credit Commitments of such Defaulting Lender at such time.
Required Lenders
provided
 means as to any Lender (a) the Dollar amount set forth opposite such Lenders name on the Schedule I hereto as such Lenders Revolving Credit Commitment, (b) if such Lender has become a Lender hereunder pursuant to an Assumption Agreement, the Dollar amount set forth in such Assumption Agreement or (c) if such Lender has entered into any Assignment and Assumption, the Dollar amount set forth for such Lender in the Register maintained by the Agent pursuant to Section 9.07(c), as such amount may be reduced pursuant to Section 2.05 or increased pursuant to Section 2.18.
Revolving Credit Commitment
 means, at any time, an amount equal to the aggregate amount of the Revolving Credit Commitments at such time.
Revolving Credit Facility
 means Standard & Poors Financial Services LLC.
S&P
 has the meaning specified in Section 5.01(i)(iv).
SEC
 means a single employer plan, as defined in Section 4001(a)(15) of ERISA, that (a) is maintained for employees of the Guarantor or any ERISA Affiliate and no Person other than the Guarantor and the ERISA Affiliates or (b) was so maintained and in respect of which the Guarantor or any ERISA Affiliate could have liability under Section 4069 of ERISA in the event such plan has been or were to be terminated.
Single Employer Plan
 means the Syndicated Loan Scheme as described in the Syndicated Loan Scheme Guidelines published by HM Revenue & Customs and dated September 2010.
SL Scheme
 means Citibank International plc.
Sub-Agent
 has the meaning specified in Section 7.05.
Subordinated Obligations
 of any Person means any corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company, trust or estate of which (or in which) more than 50% of (a) the issued and outstanding Voting Stock of such Person, (b) the interest in the capital or profits of such limited liability company, partnership or joint venture or (c) the beneficial interest in such trust or estate is at the time directly or indirectly owned or controlled by such Person, by such Person and one or more of its other Subsidiaries or by one or more of such Persons other Subsidiaries.
Subsidiary
 means the earlier of (a) October 12, 2016 and (b) the date of termination in whole of the Commitments pursuant to Section 2.05 or 6.01.
Termination Date
 means, with respect to any Issuing Bank, the obligation of such Issuing Bank to issue Letters of Credit for the account of the Borrowers in an amount equal to the excess of (a) the amount of its Letter of Credit Commitment over (b) the aggregate Available Amount of all Letters of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank.
Unissued Letter of Credit Commitment
 means, with respect to each Lender at any time, (a) such Lenders Revolving Credit Commitment at such time minus (b) the sum of (i) the aggregate principal amount of all Advances made by such Lender (in its capacity as a Lender) and outstanding at such time, plus (ii) such Lenders Ratable Share of (A) the aggregate Available Amount of all the Letters of Credit outstanding at such time and (B) the aggregate principal amount of all Advances made by each Issuing Bank pursuant to Section 2.03(c) that have not been ratably funded by such Lender and are outstanding at such time.
Unused Commitment
 means capital stock issued by a corporation, or equivalent interests in any other Person, the holders of which are ordinarily, in the absence of contingencies, entitled to vote for the election of directors (or persons performing similar functions) of such Person, even if the right so to vote has been suspended by the happening of such a contingency.
Voting Stock
SECTION 1.02. . In this Agreement in the computation of periods of time from a specified date to a later specified date, the word from means from and including and the words to and until each mean to but excluding.
Computation of Time Periods
SECTION 1.03. . All accounting terms not specifically defined herein shall be construed in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles consistent with those applied in the preparation of the financial statements referred to in Section 4.01(e) ().
Accounting Terms
GAAP
ARTICLE II
AMOUNTS AND TERMS OF THE ADVANCES AND LETTERS OF CREDIT
SECTION 2.01. . (a) . Each Lender severally agrees, on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth, to make Advances to the Borrowers from time to time on any Business Day during the period from the Effective Date until the Termination Date in an amount (based in respect of any Advances to be denominated in a Committed Currency by reference to the Equivalent thereof in Dollars determined on the date of delivery of the applicable Notice of Borrowing) not to exceed such Lenders Unused Commitment at such time. Each Borrowing under this Section 2.01(a) shall be in an amount not less than the Borrowing Minimum or an integral multiple of the Borrowing Multiple in excess thereof and shall consist of Advances of the same Type and in the same currency made on the same day by the Lenders ratably according to their respective Revolving Credit Commitments. Within the limits of each Lenders Revolving Credit Commitment, the Borrowers may borrow under this Section 2.01(a), prepay pursuant to Section 2.10 and reborrow under this Section 2.01(a).
The Advances and Letters of Credit
The Advances
(b) . Each Issuing Bank agrees, on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth, in reliance upon the agreements of the other Lenders set forth in this Agreement, to issue letters of credit
Letters of Credit
(each, a ) for the account of any Borrower from time to time on any Business Day during the period from the Effective Date until 30 days before the Termination Date in an aggregate Available Amount (i) for all Letters of Credit issued by each Issuing Bank not to exceed at any time the lesser of (x) the Letter of Credit Facility at such time and (y) such Issuing Banks Letter of Credit Commitment at such time and (ii) for each such Letter of Credit not to exceed an amount equal to the Unused Commitments of the Lenders at such time. No Letter of Credit shall have an expiration date (including all rights of such Borrower or the beneficiary to require renewal) later than 10 Business Days before the Termination Date. Within the limits referred to above, the Borrowers may from time to time request the issuance of Letters of Credit under this Section 2.01(b). Each letter of credit listed on Schedule 2.01(b) shall be deemed to constitute a Letter of Credit issued hereunder, and each Lender that is an issuer of such a Letter of Credit shall, for purposes of Section 2.03, be deemed to be an Issuing Bank for each such letter of credit, provided than any renewal or replacement of any such letter of credit shall be issued by an Issuing Bank pursuant to the terms of this Agreement. The terms issue, issued, issuance and all similar terms, when applied to a Letter of Credit, shall include any renewal or extension thereof or amendment thereto that increases the Available Amount thereof or otherwise materially increases an Issuing Banks obligations thereunder.
Letter of Credit
SECTION 2.02. . (a) Except as otherwise provided in Section 2.03(c), each Borrowing shall be made on notice, given not later than (x) 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the third Business Day prior to the date of the proposed Borrowing in the case of a Borrowing consisting of Eurocurrency Rate Advances denominated in Dollars, (y) 4:00 P.M. (London time) on the third Business Day prior to the date of the proposed Borrowing in the case of a Borrowing consisting of Eurocurrency Rate Advances denominated in any Committed Currency, or (z) 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the date of the proposed Borrowing in the case of a Borrowing consisting of Base Rate Advances, by the applicable Borrower to the Agent (and, in the case of a Borrowing consisting of Eurocurrency Rate Advances, simultaneously to the Sub-Agent), which shall give to each Lender prompt notice thereof by telecopier. Each such notice of a Borrowing (a ) shall be by telephone, confirmed immediately in writing, or telecopier in substantially the form of Exhibit B hereto, specifying therein the requested (i) date of such Borrowing, (ii) Type of Advances comprising such Borrowing, (iii) aggregate amount of such Borrowing, and (iv) in the case of a Borrowing consisting of Eurocurrency Rate Advances, initial Interest Period and currency for each such Advance. Each Lender shall, before 1:00 P.M. (New York City time) on the date of such Borrowing, in the case of a Borrowing consisting of Advances denominated in Dollars, and before 11:00 A.M. (London time) on the date of such Borrowing, in the case of a Borrowing consisting of Eurocurrency Rate Advances denominated in any Committed Currency, make available for the account of its Applicable Lending Office to the Agent at the applicable Agents Account, in same day funds, such Lenders ratable portion of such Borrowing. After the Agents receipt of such funds and upon fulfillment of the applicable conditions set forth in Article III, the Agent will make such funds available to the applicable Borrower at the Agents address referred to in Section 9.02 or at the applicable Payment Office, as the case may be.
Making the Advances
Notice of Borrowing
(b) Anything in subsection (a) above to the contrary notwithstanding, (i) the Borrowers may not select Eurocurrency Rate Advances for any Borrowing if the aggregate amount of such Borrowing is less than the Borrowing Minimum or if the obligation of the Lenders to make Eurocurrency Rate Advances for the requested currency shall then be suspended pursuant to Section 2.08 or 2.12 and (ii) the Eurocurrency Rate Advances may not be outstanding as part of more than six separate Borrowings.
(c) Each Notice of Borrowing shall be irrevocable and binding on the Borrower requesting such Borrowing. In the case of any Borrowing that the related Notice of Borrowing specifies is to be comprised of Eurocurrency Rate Advances, the applicable Borrower shall indemnify each Lender against any loss, cost or expense incurred by such Lender as a result of any failure to fulfill on or before the date specified in such Notice of Borrowing for such Borrowing the applicable conditions set forth in Article III, including, without limitation, any loss (including loss of anticipated profits), cost or expense incurred by reason of the liquidation or reemployment of deposits or other funds acquired by such Lender to fund the Advance to be made by such Lender as part of such Borrowing when such Advance, as a result of such failure, is not made on such date.
(d) Unless the Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the time of any Borrowing that such Lender will not make available to the Agent such Lenders ratable portion of such Borrowing, the Agent may assume that such Lender has made such portion available to the Agent on the date of such Borrowing in accordance with subsection (a) of this Section 2.02 and the Agent may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the applicable Borrower on such date a corresponding amount. If and to the extent that such Lender
shall not have so made such ratable portion available to the Agent, such Lender and such Borrower severally agree to repay to the Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount together with interest thereon, for each day from the date such amount is made available to such Borrower until the date such amount is repaid to the Agent, at (i) in the case of a Borrower, the higher of (A) the interest rate applicable at the time to Advances comprising such Borrowing and (B) the cost of funds incurred by the Agent in respect of such amount and (ii) in the case of such Lender, (A) the Federal Funds Rate in the case of Advances denominated in Dollars or (B) the cost of funds incurred by the Agent in respect of such amount in the case of Advances denominated in Committed Currencies. If such Lender shall repay to the Agent such corresponding amount, such amount so repaid shall constitute such Lenders Advance as part of such Borrowing for purposes of this Agreement.
(e) The failure of any Lender to make the Advance to be made by it as part of any Borrowing shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligation, if any, hereunder to make its Advance on the date of such Borrowing, but no Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to make the Advance to be made by such other Lender on the date of any Borrowing.
SECTION 2.03. . (a) . (i) Each Letter of Credit shall be issued upon notice, given not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the fifth Business Day prior to the date of the proposed issuance of such Letter of Credit (or on such shorter notice as the applicable Issuing Bank may agree), by any Borrower to any Issuing Bank, and such Issuing Bank shall give the Agent prompt notice thereof. Each such notice of issuance of a Letter of Credit (a ) shall be by telecopier or telephone, confirmed immediately in writing, specifying therein the requested (A) date of such issuance (which shall be a Business Day), (B) Available Amount and currency of such Letter of Credit, (C) expiration date of such Letter of Credit (which shall not be later than 10 Business Days before the Termination Date), (D) name and address of the beneficiary of such Letter of Credit and (E) form of such Letter of Credit, such Letter of Credit shall be issued pursuant to such application and agreement for letter of credit as such Issuing Bank may specify to the applicable Borrower for use in connection with such requested Letter of Credit (a ). If the requested form of such Letter of Credit is acceptable to such Issuing Bank in its sole discretion, such Issuing Bank will, upon fulfillment of the applicable conditions set forth in Article III, make such Letter of Credit available to the Borrower requesting such issuance at its office referred to in Section 9.02 or as otherwise agreed with such Borrower in connection with such issuance. In the event and to the extent that the provisions of any Letter of Credit Agreement shall conflict with this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall govern. For avoidance of doubt, but without limitation of the generality of the foregoing, provisions relating to security interests, reimbursement or other payment obligations, interest or events of default shall be deemed to be in conflict with this Agreement.
Issuance of and Drawings and Reimbursement Under Letters of Credit
Request for Issuance
Notice of Issuance
Letter of Credit Agreement
(b) . By the issuance of a Letter of Credit (or an amendment to a Letter of Credit increasing Available Amount thereof) and without any further action on the part of the applicable Issuing Bank or the Lenders, such Issuing Bank hereby grants to each Lender, and each Lender hereby acquires from such Issuing Bank, a participation in such Letter of Credit equal to such Lenders Ratable Share of the Available Amount of such Letter of Credit. Each Borrower hereby agrees to each such participation. In consideration and in furtherance of the foregoing, each Lender hereby absolutely and unconditionally agrees to pay to the Agent, for the account of such Issuing Bank, such Lenders Ratable Share of each drawing made under a Letter of Credit funded by such Issuing Bank and not reimbursed by the applicable Borrower on the date made, or of any reimbursement payment required to be refunded to such Borrower for any reason, which amount will be advanced, and deemed to be an Advance to such Borrower hereunder, regardless of the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 3.02. Each Lender acknowledges and agrees that its obligation to acquire participations pursuant to this paragraph in respect of Letters of Credit is absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance whatsoever, including any amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit in accordance with the terms of this Agreement or the occurrence and continuance of a Default or reduction or termination of the Revolving Credit Commitments, and that each such payment shall be made without any offset, abatement, withholding or reduction whatsoever. Each Lender further acknowledges and agrees that its participation in each Letter of Credit will be automatically adjusted to reflect such Lenders Ratable Share of the Available Amount of such Letter of Credit at each time such Lenders Revolving Credit Commitment is amended pursuant to a Commitment Increase in accordance with Section 2.18, an assignment in accordance with Section 9.07 or otherwise pursuant to this Agreement.
Participations
(c) . The payment by an Issuing Bank of a draft drawn under any Letter of Credit which is not reimbursed by the applicable Borrower on the date made (the Borrowers having no obligation to reimburse such Issuing Bank on the date of such payment, except to the extent, if any, that the sum of the amount of such drawing plus the outstanding principal amount of all Advances, plus the remaining Available Amount of all outstanding Letters of Credit, would exceed the aggregate Revolving Credit Commitments at such date) shall constitute for all purposes of this Agreement the making by any such Issuing Bank of an Advance, which, in the case of a Letter of Credit denominated in Dollars, shall be a Base Rate Advance, in the amount of such draft, or, in the case of a Letter of Credit denominated in a Committed Currency, shall be a Base Rate Advance in the Equivalent amount of Dollars on the date such draft is paid, without regard to whether the making of such an Advance would exceed such Issuing Banks Unused Commitment. Each Issuing Bank shall give prompt notice of each drawing under any Letter of Credit issued by it to the applicable Borrower and the Agent. Upon written demand by such Issuing Bank, with a copy of such demand to the Agent and the applicable Borrower, each Lender shall pay to the Agent such Lenders Ratable Share of such outstanding Advance pursuant to Section 2.03(b). Each Lender acknowledges and agrees that its obligation to make Advances pursuant to this Section 2.03(c) in respect of Letters of Credit is absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance whatsoever, including any amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit or the occurrence and continuance of a Default or reduction or termination of the Revolving Credit Commitments, and that each such payment shall be made without any offset, abatement, withholding or reduction whatsoever. Promptly after receipt thereof, the Agent shall transfer such funds to such Issuing Bank. Each Lender agrees to fund its Ratable Share of an outstanding Advance on (i) the Business Day on which demand therefor is made by such Issuing Bank, provided that notice of such demand is given not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on such Business Day, or (ii) the first Business Day next succeeding such demand if notice of such demand is given after such time. If and to the extent that any Lender shall not have so made the amount of such Advance available to the Agent, such Lender agrees to pay to the Agent forthwith on demand such amount together with interest thereon, for each day from the date of demand by any such Issuing Bank until the date such amount is paid to the Agent, at the Federal Funds Rate for its account or the account of such Issuing Bank, as applicable. If such Lender shall pay to the Agent such amount for the account of any such Issuing Bank on any Business Day, such amount so paid in respect of principal shall constitute an Advance made by such Lender on such Business Day for purposes of this Agreement, and the outstanding principal amount of the Advance made by such Issuing Bank shall be reduced by such amount on such Business Day.
Drawing and Reimbursement
(d) . Each Issuing Bank shall furnish (A) to the Agent on the first Business Day of each month a written report summarizing issuance and expiration dates of Letters of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank during the preceding month and drawings during such month under all Letters of Credit and (B) to the Agent on the first Business Day of each calendar quarter a written report setting forth the average daily aggregate Available Amount during the preceding calendar quarter of all Letters of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank. The Agent shall provide prompt notice to the Lenders of the reports delivered pursuant to this subsection (d).
Letter of Credit Reports
(e) . The failure of any Lender to make the Advance to be made by it on the date specified in Section 2.03(c) shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligation hereunder to make its Advance on such date, but no Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to make the Advance to be made by such other Lender on such date.
Failure to Make Advances
SECTION 2.04. . (a) . The Borrowers agree to pay to the Agent for the account of each Lender a facility fee on the aggregate amount of such Lenders Revolving Credit Commitment from the Effective Date in the case of each Initial Lender and from the effective date specified in the Assumption Agreement or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which it became a Lender in the case of each other Lender until the Termination Date at a rate per annum equal to the Applicable Percentage in effect from time to time, payable in arrears quarterly on the last day of each March, June, September and December, commencing December 31, 2011, and on the Termination Date; provided that no Defaulting Lender shall be entitled to receive any facility fee in respect of its Revolving Credit Commitment for any period during which that Lender is a Defaulting Lender (and the Borrowers shall not be required to pay such fee that otherwise would have been required to have been paid to that Defaulting Lender), other than a facility fee, as described above, on the aggregate principal amount of Advances funded by such Defaulting Lender outstanding from time to time.
Fees
Facility Fee
(b) .
Letter of Credit Commissions
(i) Each Borrower shall pay to the Agent for the account of each Lender a commission on such Lenders Ratable Share of the average daily aggregate Available Amount of all Letters of Credit issued at the request of such Borrower and outstanding from time to time at a rate per annum equal to the Applicable Margin for Eurocurrency Rate Advances in effect from time to time during such calendar quarter, payable in arrears quarterly on the last day of each March, June, September and December, commencing with the quarter ended December 31, 2011, and on the Termination Date; provided, that no Defaulting Lender shall be entitled to receive any commission in respect of Letters of Credit for any period during which that Lender is a Defaulting Lender (and the Borrowers shall not be required to pay such commission to that Defaulting Lender but shall pay such commission as set forth in Section 2.19); provided that the Applicable Margin shall be 2% above the Applicable Margin in effect upon the occurrence and during the continuation of an Event of Default if the Borrowers are required to pay default interest pursuant to Section 2.07(b).
(ii) Each Borrower shall pay to each Issuing Bank, for its own account, such fronting fees and such other commissions, issuance fees, transfer fees and other fees and charges in connection with the issuance or administration of each Letter of Credit as such Borrower and such Issuing Bank shall agree.
(c) . The Borrowers shall pay to the Agent for its own account such fees as may from time to time be agreed between the Guarantor and the Agent.
Agents Fees
SECTION 2.05. . (a) . The Borrowers shall have the right, upon at least five Business Days notice to the Agent, to terminate in whole or permanently reduce ratably in part the Unused Revolving Credit Commitments or the Unissued Letter of Credit Commitments of the Lenders, provided that each partial reduction shall be in the aggregate amount of $10,000,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof.
Optional Termination or Reduction of the Commitments
Ratable Termination or Reduction
(b) . The Borrowers may terminate the Unused Commitment of any Lender that is a Defaulting Lender (determined after giving effect to any reallocation of participations in Letters of Credit as provided in Section 2.19) upon prior notice of not less than one Business Day to the Agent (which shall promptly notify the Lenders thereof), and in such event the provisions of Section 2.19(e) shall apply to all amounts thereafter paid by any Borrower for the account of such Defaulting Lender under this Agreement (whether on account of principal, interest, facility fees, Letter of Credit commissions or other amounts), provided that (i) no Default shall have occurred and be continuing and (ii) such termination shall not be deemed to be a waiver or release of any claim any Borrower, the Agent, any Issuing Bank or any Lender may have against such Defaulting Lender.
Termination of Defaulting Lender
SECTION 2.06. . (a) The Borrowers shall repay to the Agent for the ratable account of the Lenders on the Termination Date the aggregate principal amount of the Advances then outstanding.
Repayment of Advances and Letter of Credit Drawings
(b) The obligations of the applicable Borrower under any Letter of Credit Agreement and any other agreement or instrument relating to any Letter of Credit (subject to Section 2.03(a)) shall be unconditional and irrevocable, and shall be paid strictly in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, such Letter of Credit Agreement and such other agreement or instrument under all circumstances, including, without limitation, the following circumstances (it being understood that any such payment by such Borrower is without prejudice to, and does not constitute a waiver of, any rights such Borrower might have or might acquire as a result of the payment by any Lender of any draft or the reimbursement by such Borrower thereof):
(i) any lack of validity or enforceability of this Agreement, any Note, any Letter of Credit Agreement, any Letter of Credit or any other agreement or instrument relating thereto (all of the foregoing being, collectively, the );
L/C Related Documents
(ii) any change in the time, manner or place of payment of, or in any other term of, all or any of the obligations of such Borrower in respect of any L/C Related Document or any
other amendment or waiver of or any consent to departure from all or any of the L/C Related Documents;
(iii) the existence of any claim, set-off, defense or other right that such Borrower may have at any time against any beneficiary or any transferee of a Letter of Credit (or any Persons for which any such beneficiary or any such transferee may be acting), any Issuing Bank, any Agent, any Lender or any other Person, whether in connection with the transactions contemplated by the L/C Related Documents or any unrelated transaction;
(iv) any statement or any other document presented under a Letter of Credit proving to be forged, fraudulent, invalid or insufficient in any respect or any statement therein being untrue or inaccurate in any respect;
(v) payment by any Issuing Bank under a Letter of Credit against presentation of a draft or certificate that does not strictly comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit;
(vi) any exchange, release or non-perfection of any collateral, or any release or amendment or waiver of or consent to departure from any guarantee, for all or any of the obligations of such Borrower in respect of the L/C Related Documents; or
(vii) any other circumstance or happening whatsoever, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing, including, without limitation, any other circumstance that might otherwise constitute a defense available to, or a discharge of, such Borrower or a guarantor.
SECTION 2.07. . (a) . The Borrowers shall pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Advance owing to each Lender from the date of such Advance until such principal amount shall be paid in full, at the following rates per annum:
Interest on Advances
Scheduled Interest
(i) . During such periods as such Advance is a Base Rate Advance, a rate per annum equal at all times to the sum of (x) the Base Rate in effect from time to time plus (y) the Applicable Margin in effect from time to time, payable in arrears quarterly on the last day of each March, June, September and December during such periods and on the date such Base Rate Advance shall be Converted or paid in full.
Base Rate Advances
(ii) . During such periods as such Advance is a Eurocurrency Rate Advance, a rate per annum equal at all times during each Interest Period for such Advance to the sum of (x) the Eurocurrency Rate for such Interest Period for such Advance plus (y) the Applicable Margin in effect from time to time, payable in arrears on the last day of such Interest Period and, if such Interest Period has a duration of more than three months, on each day that occurs during such Interest Period every three months from the first day of such Interest Period and on the date such Eurocurrency Rate Advance shall be Converted or paid in full.
Eurocurrency Rate Advances
(b) . Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default under Section 6.01(a), the Agent may, and upon the request of the Required Lenders shall, require the Borrowers to pay interest () on (i) the unpaid principal amount of each Advance owing to each Lender, payable in arrears on the dates referred to in clause (a)(i) or (a)(ii) above, at a rate per annum equal at all times to 2% per annum above the rate per annum required to be paid on such Advance pursuant to clause (a)(i) or (a)(ii) above and (ii) to the fullest extent permitted by law, the amount of any interest, fee or other amount payable hereunder that is not paid when due, from the date such amount shall be due until such amount shall be paid in full, payable in arrears on the date such amount shall be paid in full and on demand, at a rate per annum equal at all times to 2% per annum above the rate per annum required to be paid on Base Rate Advances pursuant to clause (a)(i) above; provided, however, that following acceleration of the Advances pursuant to Section 6.01, Default Interest shall accrue and be payable hereunder whether or not previously required by the Agent.
Default Interest
Default Interest
SECTION 2.08. . (a) Each Reference Bank agrees to furnish to the Agent timely information for the purpose of determining each Eurocurrency Rate. If any one or more of the Reference Banks shall not furnish such timely information to the Agent for the purpose of determining any such interest rate, the Agent shall determine such interest rate on the basis of timely information furnished by the remaining Reference Banks. The Agent shall give prompt notice to the applicable Borrower and the Lenders of the applicable interest rate determined by the Agent for purposes of Section 2.07(a)(i) or (ii), and the rate, if any, furnished by each Reference Bank for the purpose of determining the interest rate under Section 2.07(a)(ii).
Interest Rate Determination
(b) If, with respect to any Eurocurrency Rate Advances, the Required Lenders notify the Agent that (i) they are unable to obtain matching deposits in the London inter-bank market at or about 11:00 A.M. (London time) on the second Business Day before the making of a Borrowing in sufficient amounts to fund their respective Advances as a part of such Borrowing during its Interest Period or (ii) the Eurocurrency Rate for any Interest Period for such Advances will not adequately reflect the cost to such Required Lenders of making, funding or maintaining their respective Eurocurrency Rate Advances for such Interest Period, the Agent shall forthwith so notify the applicable Borrower and the Lenders, whereupon (A) such Borrower will, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, (1) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advances are denominated in Dollars, either (x) prepay such Advances or (y) Convert such Advances into Base Rate Advances and (2) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advances are denominated in any Committed Currency, either (x) prepay such Advances or (y) exchange such Advances into an Equivalent amount of Dollars and Convert such Advances into Base Rate Advances and (B) the obligation of the Lenders to make, or to Convert Advances into, Eurocurrency Rate Advances in the affected currency shall be suspended until the Agent shall notify the Borrowers and the Lenders that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist; provided that, if the circumstances set forth in clause (ii) above are applicable, the applicable Borrower may elect, by notice to the Agent and the Lenders, to continue such Advances in such Committed Currency for Interest Periods of not longer than one month, which Advances shall thereafter bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the Applicable Margin plus, for each Lender, the cost to such Lender (expressed as a rate per annum) of funding its Eurocurrency Rate Advances by whatever means it reasonably determines to be appropriate. Each Lender shall certify its cost of funds for each Interest Period to the Agent and the applicable Borrower as soon as practicable (but in any event not later than ten Business Days after the first day of such Interest Period).
(c) If any Borrower shall fail to select the duration of any Interest Period in accordance with the provisions contained in the definition of Interest Period in Section 1.01 for any Eurocurrency Rate Advances made to it, the Agent will forthwith so notify such Borrower and the Lenders and such Advances will automatically, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, (i) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advances are denominated in Dollars, Convert into Base Rate Advances and (ii) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advances are denominated in a Committed Currency, be exchanged for an Equivalent amount of Dollars and Convert into Base Rate Advances.
(d) On the date on which the aggregate unpaid principal amount of Eurocurrency Rate Advances comprising any Borrowing shall be reduced, by payment or prepayment or otherwise, to less than the Borrowing Minimum, such Advances shall automatically Convert into Base Rate Advances.
(e) Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default under Section 6.01(a), (i) each Eurocurrency Rate Advance will automatically, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, (A) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advances are denominated in Dollars, be Converted into Base Rate Advances and (B) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advances are denominated in any Committed Currency, be exchanged for an Equivalent amount of Dollars and be Converted into Base Rate Advances and (ii) the obligation of the Lenders to make, or to Convert Advances into, Eurocurrency Rate Advances shall be suspended; provided that the applicable Borrower may elect, by notice to the Agent and the Lenders within one Business Day of such Event of Default, to continue such Advances in such Committed Currency, whereupon the Agent may require that each Interest Period relating to such Eurocurrency Rate Advances shall bear interest at the Overnight Eurocurrency Rate for a period of three Business Days and thereafter, each such Interest Period shall have a duration of not longer than one month.  means the rate per annum applicable to an overnight period beginning on one Business Day and ending on the next Business Day equal to the sum of 1%, the Applicable Interest Rate Margin and the average, rounded upward to the nearest whole multiple of 1/16 of 1%, if such average is not such a multiple, of the respective rates per annum quoted by each Reference Bank to the Agent on request as the rate at
Overnight Eurocurrency Rate
which it is offering overnight deposits in the relevant currency in amounts comparable to such Reference Banks Eurocurrency Rate Advances.
(f) If Reuters LIBOR01 Page (or any successor or substitute page of Reuters, or any successor to or substitute for Reuters, providing rate quotations comparable to those currently provided on such page of Reuters, as determined by the Agent from time to time for purposes of providing quotations of interest rates applicable to deposits in Dollars by reference to the British Bankers Association Interest Settlement Rates for deposits in Dollars) or Reuters EURIBOR01 page (or on any successor or substitute page of Reuters, or any successor to or substitute for Reuters, providing rate quotations comparable to those currently provided on such page of Reuters, as determined by the Agent from time to time for purposes of providing quotations of interest rates applicable to deposits in Euro by reference to the Banking Federation of the European Union Settlement Rates for deposits in Euro), as applicable, is unavailable and fewer than two Reference Banks furnish timely information to the Agent for determining the Eurocurrency Rate for any Eurocurrency Rate Advances,
(i) the Agent shall forthwith notify the Borrowers and the Lenders that the interest rate cannot be determined for such Eurocurrency Rate Advances,
(ii) with respect to Eurocurrency Rate Advances, each such Advance will automatically, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, (A) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advance is denominated in Dollars, Convert into a Base Rate Advance and (B) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advance is denominated in any Committed Currency, be prepaid by the applicable Borrower or be automatically exchanged for an Equivalent amount of Dollars and be Converted into a Base Rate Advance (or if such Advance is then a Base Rate Advance, will continue as a Base Rate Advance), and
(iii) the obligation of the Lenders to make Eurocurrency Rate Advances or to Convert Advances into Eurocurrency Rate Advances shall be suspended until the Agent shall notify the Borrowers and the Lenders that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist.
SECTION 2.09. . Each Borrower may on any Business Day, upon notice given to the Agent not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the third Business Day prior to the date of the proposed Conversion and subject to the provisions of Sections 2.08 and 2.12, Convert all or any portion of the Advances made to such Borrower denominated in Dollars of one Type comprising the same Borrowing into Advances denominated in Dollars of the other Type; provided, however, that any Conversion of Eurocurrency Rate Advances into Base Rate Advances shall be made only on the last day of an Interest Period for such Eurocurrency Rate Advances, any Conversion of Base Rate Advances into Eurocurrency Rate Advances shall be in an amount not less than the minimum amount specified in Section 2.02(b) and no Conversion of any Advances shall result in more separate Borrowings than permitted under Section 2.02(b). Each such notice of a Conversion shall, within the restrictions specified above, specify (i) the date of such Conversion, (ii) the Dollar denominated Advances to be Converted, and (iii) if such Conversion is into Eurocurrency Rate Advances, the duration of the initial Interest Period for each such Advance. Each notice of Conversion shall be irrevocable and binding on the applicable Borrower.
Optional Conversion of Advances
SECTION 2.10. . (a)  . Each Borrower may, upon notice at least two Business Days prior to the date of such prepayment, in the case of Eurocurrency Rate Advances, and not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the date of such prepayment, in the case of Base Rate Advances, to the Agent stating the proposed date and aggregate principal amount of the prepayment, and if such notice is given the Borrower giving such notice shall, prepay the outstanding principal amount of the Advances comprising part of the same Borrowing in whole or ratably in part, together with accrued interest to the date of such prepayment on the principal amount prepaid; provided, however, that (x) each partial prepayment shall be in an aggregate principal amount of not less than the Borrowing Minimum or an integral multiple of the Borrowing Multiple in excess thereof and (y) in the event of any such prepayment of a Eurocurrency Rate Advance, such Borrower shall be obligated to reimburse the Lenders in respect thereof pursuant to Section 9.04(c).
Prepayments of Advances
Optional
(b) .
Mandatory
(i) If, on any date, the Agent notifies the Borrowers that, on any interest payment date, the sum of (A) the aggregate principal amount of all Advances denominated in Dollars then outstanding plus (B) the aggregate Available Amount of all Letters of Credit denominated in Dollars then outstanding plus (C) the Equivalent in Dollars (determined on the third Business Day prior to such interest payment date) of the aggregate principal amount of all Advances denominated in Committed Currencies then outstanding plus (D) the Equivalent in Dollars (determined on the third Business Day prior to such interest payment date) of the aggregate Available Amount of all Letters of Credit denominated in Committed Currencies then outstanding exceeds 103% of the aggregate Revolving Credit Commitments of the Lenders on such date, the Borrowers shall, as soon as practicable and in any event within two Business Days after receipt of such notice, subject to the proviso to this sentence set forth below, prepay the outstanding principal amount of any Advances owing by the Borrowers in an aggregate amount sufficient to reduce such sum to an amount not to exceed 100% of the aggregate Revolving Credit Commitments of the Lenders on such date together with any interest accrued to the date of such prepayment on the aggregate principal amount of Advances prepaid; provided that if the aggregate principal amount of Base Rate Advances outstanding at the time of such required prepayment is less than the amount of such required prepayment, the portion of such required prepayment in excess of the aggregate principal amount of Base Rate Advances then outstanding shall be deferred until the next succeeding last day of an Interest Period of outstanding Eurocurrency Rate Advances in an aggregate amount equal to the excess of such required prepayment. The Agent shall give prompt notice of any prepayment required under this Section 2.10(b) to the Borrowers and the Lenders, and shall provide prompt notice to the Borrowers of any such notice of required prepayment received by it from any Lender.
(ii) Each prepayment made pursuant to this Section 2.10(b) shall be made together with any interest accrued to the date of such prepayment on the principal amounts prepaid and, in the case of any prepayment of a Eurocurrency Rate Advance on a date other than the last day of an Interest Period or at its maturity, any additional amounts which the applicable Borrower shall be obligated to reimburse to the Lenders in respect thereof pursuant to Section 9.04(c). The Agent shall give prompt notice of any prepayment required under this Section 2.10(b) to the Borrowers and the Lenders.
SECTION 2.11. . (a) If, due to either (i) the introduction of or any change in or in the interpretation of any law or any governmental rule, policy, guideline, directive or regulation after the date hereof, or (ii) the compliance with any guideline or request issued after the date hereof from any central bank or other governmental authority including, without limitation, any agency of the European Union or similar monetary or multinational authority (whether or not having the force of law), there shall be any increase in the cost to any Lender of agreeing to make or making, funding or maintaining Eurocurrency Rate Advances or agreeing to issue or of issuing or maintaining or participating in Letters of Credit (excluding for purposes of this Section 2.11 any such increased costs resulting from (i) Taxes or Other Taxes (as to which Section 2.14 shall govern) and (ii) changes in the basis of taxation of overall net income or overall gross income by the United States or by the foreign jurisdiction or state under the laws of which such Lender is organized or has its Applicable Lending Office or any political subdivision thereof), then the Borrowers shall from time to time, upon demand by such Lender (with a copy of such demand to the Agent), pay to the Agent for the account of such Lender additional amounts sufficient to compensate such Lender for such increased cost. A certificate as to the amount of such increased cost, submitted to the Borrowers and the Agent by such Lender, shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
Increased Costs
(b) If any Lender determines that compliance with any law or any governmental rule, policy, guideline, directive or regulation or any guideline or request taking effect or issued after the date hereof from any central bank or other governmental authority (whether or not having the force of law) affects or would affect the amount of capital required or expected to be maintained by such Lender or any corporation controlling such Lender and that the amount of such capital is increased by or based upon the existence of such Lenders commitment to lend or to issue or participate in Letters of Credit hereunder and other commitments of this type, then, upon demand by such Lender (with a copy of such demand to the Agent), the Borrowers shall pay to the Agent for the account of such Lender, from time to time as specified by such Lender, additional amounts sufficient to compensate such Lender or such corporation in the light of such circumstances, to the extent that such Lender reasonably determines
such increase in capital to be allocable to the existence of such Lenders commitment to lend hereunder. A certificate as to such amounts submitted to the Borrowers and the Agent by such Lender shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
(c) Failure or delay on the part of any Lender to demand compensation pursuant to this Section 2.11 shall not constitute a waiver of such Lenders right to demand such compensation; provided that the Borrowers shall not be required to compensate a Lender pursuant to this Section 2.11 for any increased costs or reductions incurred more than six months prior to the date that such Lender notifies the Borrowers of the circumstances giving rise to such increased costs or reductions and of such Lenders intention to claim compensation therefor; provided further that, if the circumstances giving rise to such increased costs or reductions cause such increased costs or reductions to be retroactive, then the six-month period referred to above shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof.
(d) For the avoidance of doubt and notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, for the purposes of this Section 2.11, (i) the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and all requests, rules, regulations, guidelines, interpretations or directives by a governmental authority thereunder or issued by a governmental authority in connection therewith (whether or not having the force of law) and (ii) all requests, rules, regulations, guidelines, interpretations or directives promulgated by the Bank for International Settlements, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (or any successor or similar authority) or the United States or foreign regulatory authorities (whether or not having the force of law), in case for this clause (ii) pursuant to Basel III, shall in each case be deemed to be a change in law regardless of the date enacted, adopted, issued, promulgated or implemented.
SECTION 2.12. . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, if any Lender shall notify the Agent that the introduction of or any change in or in the interpretation of any law or regulation makes it unlawful, or any central bank or other governmental authority asserts that it is unlawful, for any Lender or its Eurocurrency Lending Office to perform its obligations hereunder to make Eurocurrency Rate Advances in Dollars or any Committed Currency or to fund or maintain Eurocurrency Rate Advances in Dollars or any Committed Currency hereunder, (a) (i) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advance is denominated in Dollars, be Converted into a Base Rate Advance and (ii) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advance is denominated in any Committed Currency, be exchanged into an Equivalent amount of Dollars and be Converted into a Base Rate Advance and (b) the obligation of the Lenders to make Eurocurrency Rate Advances in the affected currency or to Convert Advances into Eurocurrency Rate Advances shall be suspended until the Agent shall notify the Borrowers and the Lenders that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist; provided, however, that before making any such demand, each Lender agrees to use reasonable efforts (consistent with its internal policy and legal and regulatory restrictions) to designate a different Eurocurrency Lending Office if the making of such a designation would allow such Lender or its Eurocurrency Lending Office to continue to perform its obligations to make such Eurocurrency Rate Advances or to continue to fund or maintain such Eurocurrency Rate Advances and would not, in the judgment of such Lender, be otherwise disadvantageous to such Lender.
Illegality
SECTION 2.13. . (a) The Borrowers shall make each payment hereunder (except with respect to principal of, interest on, and other amounts relating to, Advances denominated in a Committed Currency), irrespective of any right of counterclaim or set-off, not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the day when due in Dollars to the Agent at the applicable Agents Account in same day funds. The Borrowers shall make each payment hereunder with respect to principal of, interest on, and other amounts relating to, Advances denominated in a Committed Currency, irrespective of any right of counterclaim or set-off, not later than 11:00 A.M. (at the Payment Office for such Committed Currency) on the day when due in such Committed Currency to the Agent, by deposit of such funds to the applicable Agents Account in same day funds. The Agent will promptly thereafter cause to be distributed like funds relating to the payment of principal, interest, fees or commissions ratably (other than amounts payable pursuant to Section 2.11, 2.14 or 9.04(c)) to the Lenders for the account of their respective Applicable Lending Offices, and like funds relating to the payment of any other amount payable to any Lender to such Lender for the account of its Applicable Lending Office, in each case to be applied in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. Upon any Assuming Lender becoming a Lender hereunder as a result of a Commitment Increase pursuant to Section 2.18, and upon the Agents receipt of such Lenders Assumption Agreement and recording of the information contained therein in the Register, from and after the applicable Increase Date, the Agent shall make all payments hereunder and under any Notes issued in connection therewith in respect of
Payments and Computations
the interest assumed thereby to the Assuming Lender. Upon its acceptance of an Assignment and Assumption and recording of the information contained therein in the Register pursuant to Section 9.07(c), from and after the effective date specified in such Assignment and Assumption, the Agent shall make all payments hereunder and under any Notes in respect of the interest assigned thereby to the Lender assignee thereunder, and the parties to such Assignment and Assumption shall make all appropriate adjustments in such payments for periods prior to such effective date directly between themselves.
(b) Each Borrower hereby authorizes each Lender, if and to the extent payment owed to such Lender is not made when due hereunder or under the Note held by such Lender, to charge from time to time against any or all of such Borrowers accounts with such Lender any amount so due.
(c) All computations of interest based on the Base Rate shall be made by the Agent on the basis of a year of 365 or 366 days, as the case may be, and all computations of interest based on the Eurocurrency Rate or the Federal Funds Rate and of facility fees and Letter of Credit commissions shall be made by the Agent on the basis of a year of 360 days (or, in each case of Advances denominated in Committed Currencies where market practice differs, in accordance with market practice), in each case for the actual number of days (including the first day but excluding the last day) occurring in the period for which such interest, fees or commissions are payable. Each determination by the Agent of an interest rate hereunder shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
(d) Whenever any payment hereunder or under the Notes shall be stated to be due on a day other than a Business Day, such payment shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day, and such extension of time shall in such case be included in the computation of payment of interest, fee or commission, as the case may be; provided, however, that, if such extension would cause payment of interest on or principal of Eurocurrency Rate Advances to be made in the next following calendar month, such payment shall be made on the next preceding Business Day.
(e) Unless the Agent shall have received notice from the applicable Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Lenders hereunder that such Borrower will not make such payment in full, the Agent may assume that such Borrower has made such payment in full to the Agent on such date and the Agent may, in reliance upon such assumption, cause to be distributed to each Lender on such due date an amount equal to the amount then due such Lender. If and to the extent the applicable Borrower shall not have so made such payment in full to the Agent, each Lender shall repay to the Agent forthwith on demand such amount distributed to such Lender together with interest thereon, for each day from the date such amount is distributed to such Lender until the date such Lender repays such amount to the Agent, at (i) the Federal Funds Rate in the case of Advances denominated in Dollars or (ii) the cost of funds incurred by the Agent in respect of such amount in the case of Advances denominated in Committed Currencies.
(f) To the extent that the Agent receives funds for application to the amounts owing by any Borrower under or in respect of this Agreement or any Note in currencies other than the currency or currencies required to enable the Agent to distribute funds to the Lenders in accordance with the terms of this Section 2.13, the Agent shall be entitled to convert or exchange such funds into Dollars or into a Committed Currency, to the extent necessary to enable the Agent to distribute such funds in accordance with the terms of this Section 2.13; provided that each Borrower and each of the Lenders hereby agree that the Agent shall not be liable or responsible for any loss, cost or expense suffered by such Borrower or such Lender as a result of any conversion or exchange of currencies affected pursuant to this Section 2.13(f) or as a result of the failure of the Agent to effect any such conversion or exchange; and provided further that the Borrowers agree to indemnify the Agent and each Lender, and hold the Agent and each Lender harmless, for any and all losses, costs and expenses incurred by the Agent or any Lender for any conversion or exchange of currencies (or the failure to convert or exchange any currencies) in accordance with this Section 2.13(f).
SECTION 2.14. . (a) Subject to Sections 2.14(e) and 2.14(f), any and all payments by any Loan Party to or for the account of any Lender or the Agent hereunder or under the Notes or any other documents to be delivered hereunder shall be made, in accordance with Section 2.13 or the applicable provisions of such other documents, free and clear of and without deduction for any and all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, deductions, charges or withholdings, and all liabilities with respect thereto, excluding, in the case of each Lender
Taxes
and the Agent, taxes imposed on its overall net income, profits, gains or branch profits and franchise taxes imposed on it in lieu of net income taxes, by the jurisdiction under the laws of which such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) is organized or any political subdivision thereof and, in the case of each Lender, taxes imposed on its overall net income, profits, gains or branch profits and franchise taxes imposed on it in lieu of net income taxes, by the jurisdiction of such Lenders Applicable Lending Office or any political subdivision thereof (all such non-excluded taxes, levies, imposts, deductions, charges, withholdings and liabilities in respect of payments hereunder or under the Notes being hereinafter referred to as ). If any Loan Party shall be required by law to deduct any Taxes from or in respect of any sum payable hereunder or under any Note or any other documents to be delivered hereunder to any Lender or the Agent, (i) the sum payable shall be increased as may be necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section 2.14) such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) such Loan Party shall make such deductions and (iii) such Loan Party shall pay the full amount deducted to the relevant taxation authority or other authority in accordance with applicable law.
Taxes
(b) In addition, the Borrowers shall pay any present or future stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies that arise from any payment made hereunder or under the Notes or any other documents to be delivered hereunder or from the execution, delivery or registration of, performing under, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement or the Notes or any other documents to be delivered hereunder (hereinafter referred to as ).
Other Taxes
(c) Subject to Sections 2.14(e) and 2.14(f), the Borrowers shall indemnify each Lender and the Agent for and hold it harmless against the full amount of Taxes or Other Taxes (including, without limitation, taxes of any kind imposed or asserted by any jurisdiction on amounts payable under this Section 2.14) imposed on or paid by such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) and any liability (including penalties, interest and reasonable expenses) arising therefrom or with respect thereto. This indemnification shall be made within 30 days from the date such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) makes written demand therefor setting forth in reasonable detail the basis for such claim.
(d) Within 45 days after the date of any payment of Taxes, the applicable Loan Party shall furnish to the Agent, at its address referred to in Section 9.02, the original or a certified copy of a receipt evidencing such payment to the extent such a receipt is issued therefor, or other written proof of payment thereof that is reasonably satisfactory to the Agent. In the case of any payment hereunder or under the Notes or any other documents to be delivered hereunder by or on behalf of any Loan Party (other than OFP) through an account or branch outside the United States or by or on behalf of any Loan Party (other than OFP) by a payor that is not a United States person, if such Loan Party determines that no Taxes are payable in respect thereof, such Loan Party shall furnish, or shall cause such payor to furnish, to the Agent, at such address, an opinion of counsel acceptable to the Agent stating that such payment is exempt from Taxes. For purposes of this subsection (d) and subsection (e), the terms  and  shall have the meanings specified in Section 7701 of the Internal Revenue Code.
United States
United States person
(e) (i) Each Lender organized under the laws of a jurisdiction outside the United States, on or prior to the date of its execution and delivery of this Agreement in the case of each Initial Lender and on the date of the Assumption Agreement or the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which it becomes a Lender in the case of each other Lender, and from time to time thereafter as reasonably requested in writing by OCI (but only so long as such Lender remains lawfully able to do so), shall provide each of the Agent and OCI with two original Internal Revenue Service forms W-8BEN or W-8ECI, as appropriate, or any successor or other form prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service, certifying that such Lender is exempt from or entitled to a reduced rate of United States withholding tax on payments made by OCI pursuant to this Agreement or the Notes. If the form provided by a Lender at the time such Lender first becomes a party to this Agreement indicates a United States interest withholding tax rate in excess of zero, withholding tax at such rate shall be considered excluded from Taxes unless and until such Lender provides the appropriate forms certifying that a lesser rate applies, whereupon withholding tax at such lesser rate only shall be considered excluded from Taxes for periods governed by such form; provided, however, that, if at the date of the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which a Lender assignee becomes a party to this Agreement, the Lender assignor was entitled to payments under Section 2.14(a) in respect of United States withholding tax with respect to interest paid at such date, then, to such extent, the
term Taxes shall include (in addition to withholding taxes that may be imposed in the future or other amounts otherwise includable in Taxes) United States withholding tax, if any, applicable with respect to the Lender assignee on such date. If any form or document referred to in this Section 2.14(e) requires the disclosure of information, other than information necessary to compute the tax payable and information required on the date hereof by Internal Revenue Service form W-8BEN or W-8ECI, that the Lender reasonably considers to be confidential, the Lender shall give notice thereof to the Agent and OCI and shall not be obligated to include in such form or document such confidential information.
(ii) If a payment made to a Lender hereunder would be subject to United States federal withholding tax imposed by Sections 1471(a) and 1472(a) of the Internal Revenue Code if such Lender were to fail to comply with the applicable reporting requirements of FATCA (including those contained in Section 1471(b) or Section 1472(b) of the Internal Revenue Code, as applicable, and the regulations thereunder), such Lender shall deliver to OCI and the Agent, at the time or times prescribed by law and at such time or times reasonably requested by OCI or the Agent, such documentation prescribed by applicable law (including as prescribed by Section 1471(b)(3)(C)(i) of the Internal Revenue Code) and such additional documentation reasonably requested by OCI or the Agent as may be necessary for the Borrowers or the Agent to comply with its obligations under FATCA, to determine that such Lender has complied with such Lenders obligations under FATCA or to determine the amount to deduct and withhold from such payment.
(f) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, for any period with respect to which a Lender has failed to provide OCI with the appropriate form, certificate or other document described in Section 2.14(e) (other than if such failure is due to a change in law, or in the interpretation or application thereof, occurring subsequent to the date on which a form, certificate or other document originally was required to be provided, or if such form, certificate or other document otherwise is not required under Section 2.14(e) above), such Lender shall not be entitled to a gross-up or indemnification under Section 2.14(a) or (c) with respect to Taxes imposed by the United States by reason of such failure, including any United States federal withholding tax imposed as a result of a failure to satisfy the applicable requirements of FATCA after December 31, 2011, or such later date on which the requirements of FATCA become effective; provided, however, that should a Lender become subject to Taxes because of its failure to deliver a form, certificate or other document required hereunder, the Borrowers shall take such steps as the Lender shall reasonably request to assist the Lender to recover such Taxes.
(g) In respect of Advances to OFP, each Lender shall designate an Applicable Lending Office that is beneficially entitled to interest under such Advances and that, on the date of this Agreement or (in the case of any Person that becomes a Lender hereunder by means of an assignment) on the date such Lender becomes a party hereto is either (i) within the charge to United Kingdom corporation tax in respect of interest in respect of an advance by a Person that was a bank (for the purposes of Section 879 of the ITA) at the time the advance was made; or (ii) resident in a country with which the United Kingdom has a double taxation agreement which makes provision for full exemption from United Kingdom taxation on interest payable by OFP pursuant to this Agreement and does not carry on business in the United Kingdom through a permanent establishment with which the payment is effectively connected (each such Person which is so resident being hereinafter in this Section 2.14 referred to as a ); or (iii) a company resident in the United Kingdom, or a partnership each member of which is a company resident in the United Kingdom for United Kingdom tax purposes; or (iv) a company not so resident in the United Kingdom which carries on a trade in the United Kingdom through a permanent establishment and which is required to bring into account interest payable to it by OFP pursuant to this Agreement in computing its chargeable profits for the purposes of Section 19 of the CTA. If, on the date on which any interest payment falls due, any Lender does not or ceases to comply with, or is not a Person who falls within, clause (i), (ii), (iii) or (iv) above other than by reason of any change after the date of this Agreement in (or in the interpretation, administration or application of) any law or double taxation agreement or any published practice or concession of any relevant taxing authority, the Borrowers shall not be required to compensate such Lender under Section 2.14(a) or 2.14(c) for the amount of Taxes imposed by the United Kingdom in consequence. Subject to Section 2.14(h)(i) below, any Lender to whom clause (ii) above is relevant and OFP shall cooperate in promptly completing any procedural formalities necessary for OFP to obtain authorization to make interest payments without deduction for United Kingdom income tax. The Borrowers shall not be required to compensate any Lender to whom clause (ii) above is relevant under Section 2.14(a) or 2.14(c) for any deduction for United Kingdom income tax from interest payments if such deduction is required as a result of the failure of such Lender to comply with its obligations in the preceding
Treaty Lender
sentence (other than a failure that is attributable to the failure by OFP to comply with its obligations in the preceding sentence).
(h) (i) A Treaty Lender which holds a passport under the HMRC DT Treaty Passport scheme which becomes a party to this Agreement, and which wishes that scheme to apply to an Advance made available to OFP under this Agreement, shall include an indication to that effect by including its scheme reference number and its jurisdiction of tax residence in its Administrative Questionnaire (for the benefit of the Agent and without liability to any Borrower). If such Treaty Lender includes the indication described above then OFP shall file a duly completed form DTTP2 in respect of such Treaty Lender with HM Revenue & Customs within 30 days of the date of the amendment and restatement of this Agreement, the Assumption Agreement, or the Assignment and Assumption (as the case may be) (as shall any other relevant United Kingdom Borrower within 30 days of that Borrower becoming party to this Agreement). If a Lender has not indicated that it wishes the HMRC DT Treaty Passport scheme to apply to this Agreement as per the above then no Borrower shall file any form relating to the HMRC DT Treaty Passport scheme in respect of that Lender's Advances. For the avoidance of doubt, nothing in this Section 2.14 shall require a Treaty Lender to (x) register under the HMRC DT Treaty Passport scheme; (y) apply the HMRC DT Treaty Passport scheme to any Advance if it has so registered or (z) file any forms relating to any double taxation agreement with the United Kingdom if it has indicated that it wishes the HMRC DT Treaty Passport scheme to apply to this Agreement in accordance with the above and the relevant Borrower has not complied with its obligations under this Section 2.14(h)(i).
(ii) Each Treaty Lender irrevocably appoints the Agent to act as syndicate manager under, and authorizes the Agent to operate, and take any action necessary or desirable under, the SL Scheme in connection with any Borrowing hereunder. Each Treaty Lender shall cooperate with the Agent in completing any procedural formalities necessary under the SL Scheme, and shall promptly supply to the Agent such information as the Agent may request in connection with the operation of the SL Scheme. Each Treaty Lender without limiting the liability of any Borrower under this Agreement, shall, within five Business Days of demand, indemnify the Agent for any liability or loss incurred by the Agent as a result of the Agent acting as syndicate manager under the SL Scheme in connection with the Treaty Lenders participation in any Borrowing (except to the extent that the liability or loss arises directly from the Agents gross negligence or willful misconduct). Each Treaty Lender shall, within five Business Days of demand, indemnify each Borrower for any Tax which such Borrower becomes liable to pay in respect of any payments made to such Treaty Lender arising as a result of any incorrect information supplied by such Treaty Lender which results in a provisional authority issued by HM Revenue and Customs under the SL Scheme being withdrawn. Each Borrower acknowledges that it is fully aware of its contingent obligations under the SL Scheme and shall (i) promptly inform the Agent of all actions required to be performed by the Agent under the SL Scheme, (ii) promptly supply to the Agent such information as the Agent may request in connection with the operation of the SL Scheme; and (iii) act in accordance with any provisional notice issued by HM Revenue and Customs under the SL Scheme. The Agent agrees to provide, as soon as reasonably practicable, a copy of any provisional authority issued to it under the SL Scheme in connection with any Borrowing to those Borrowers specified in such provisional authority. Each of the Borrowers, the Treaty Lenders and the Agent acknowledges that the Agent: (i) is entitled to rely completely upon information provided to it in connection with this clause; (ii) is not obliged to undertake any inquiry into the accuracy of such information nor into the status of the Treaty Lender or, as the case may be, Borrower providing such information; and (iii) shall have no liability to any Person for the accuracy of any information it submits to HM Revenue and Customs in connection with this clause.
(i) If the Agent or any Lender, in its sole discretion, determines that it has received a refund of any Taxes or Other Taxes (including by virtue of a credit or offset of such Taxes or Other Taxes) as to which it has been indemnified by a Borrower or with respect to which a Borrower has made a gross-up payment under Section 2.14(a) or 2.14(c), it shall pay to such Borrower an amount equal to such refund (but only to the extent of indemnity payments made, or gross-up paid, by such Borrower under this Section 2.14 with respect to the Taxes or Other Taxes giving rise to such refund), net of all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses of the Agent or such Lender, as the case may be, and without interest (other than any interest paid by the relevant governmental authority with respect to such refund), provided that such Borrower upon the request of the Agent or such Lender, agrees to repay the amount paid over to such Borrower (plus any penalties, interest or other charges imposed by the relevant
governmental authority) to the Agent or such Lender if the Agent or such Lender is required to repay such refund to such governmental authority. This Section 2.14(i) shall not be construed to require the Agent or any Lender to make available its tax returns (or any other information relating to its taxes that it deems confidential) to a Borrower or any other Person.
SECTION 2.15. . If any Lender shall obtain any payment (whether voluntary, involuntary, through the exercise of any right of set-off, or otherwise) on account of the Advances owing to it (other than as payment of an Advance made by an Issuing Bank pursuant to the first sentence of Section 2.03(c), to the extent that the unreimbursed amount of such Advance exceeds the applicable Issuing Banks Ratable Share of the initial amount of such Advance, or pursuant to Section 2.11, 2.14, 2.19 or 9.04(c)) in excess of its Ratable Share of payments on account of the Advances obtained by all the Lenders, such Lender shall forthwith purchase from the other Lenders such participations in the Advances owing to them as shall be necessary to cause such purchasing Lender to share the excess payment ratably with each of them; provided, however, that if all or any portion of such excess payment is thereafter recovered from such purchasing Lender, such purchase from each Lender shall be rescinded and such Lender shall repay to the purchasing Lender the purchase price to the extent of such recovery together with an amount equal to such Lenders ratable share (according to the proportion of (i) the amount of such Lenders required repayment to (ii) the total amount so recovered from the purchasing Lender) of any interest or other amount paid or payable by the purchasing Lender in respect of the total amount so recovered. Each Borrower agrees that any Lender so purchasing a participation from another Lender pursuant to this Section 2.15 may, to the fullest extent permitted by law, exercise all its rights of payment (including the right of set-off) with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were the direct creditor of such Borrower in the amount of such participation.
Sharing of Payments, Etc
SECTION 2.16. . (a) Each Lender shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice an account or accounts evidencing the indebtedness of each Borrower to such Lender resulting from each Advance owing to such Lender from time to time, including the amounts of principal and interest payable and paid to such Lender from time to time hereunder in respect of Advances made to such Borrower. The Borrowers agree that upon notice by any Lender to the Borrowers (with a copy of such notice to the Agent) to the effect that a Note is required or appropriate in order for such Lender to evidence (whether for purposes of pledge, enforcement or otherwise) the Advances owing to, or to be made by, such Lender, the Borrowers shall promptly execute and deliver to such Lender a Note payable to the order of such Lender in a principal amount up to the Revolving Credit Commitment of such Lender.
Evidence of Debt
(b) The Register maintained by the Agent pursuant to Section 9.07(c) shall include a control account, and a subsidiary account for each Lender, in which accounts (taken together) shall be recorded (i) the date and amount of each Borrowing made hereunder, the Type of Advances comprising such Borrowing and, if appropriate, the Interest Period applicable thereto, (ii) the terms of each Assumption Agreement and each Assignment and Assumption delivered to and accepted by it, (iii) the amount of any principal or interest due and payable or to become due and payable from each Borrower to each Lender hereunder and (iv) the amount of any sum received by the Agent from each Borrower hereunder and each Lenders share thereof.
(c) Entries made in good faith by the Agent in the Register pursuant to subsection (b) above, and by each Lender in its account or accounts pursuant to subsection (a) above, shall be prima facie evidence of the amount of principal and interest due and payable or to become due and payable from each Borrower to, in the case of the Register, each Lender and, in the case of such account or accounts, such Lender, under this Agreement, absent manifest error; provided, however, that the failure of the Agent or such Lender to make an entry, or any finding that an entry is incorrect, in the Register or such account or accounts shall not limit or otherwise affect the obligations of any Borrower under this Agreement.
SECTION 2.17. . The proceeds of the Advances shall be available (and each Borrower agrees that it shall use such proceeds) solely for general corporate purposes of the Borrowers and their Subsidiaries, including, without limitation, as commercial paper liquidity support and to fund acquisitions otherwise not prohibited hereunder.
Use of Proceeds
SECTION 2.18. . (a) The Guarantor may, at any time but in any event not more than once in any calendar year prior to the Termination Date, by notice to the Agent, request
Increase in the Aggregate Commitments
that the aggregate amount of the Revolving Credit Commitments be increased by an amount of $10,000,000 or an integral multiple thereof (each a ) to be effective as of a date that is at least 90 days prior to the scheduled Termination Date then in effect and not less than three Business Days after the date of such notice (the ) as specified in the related notice to the Agent; provided, however that (i) in no event shall the aggregate amount of the Revolving Credit Commitments at any time exceed $3,000,000,000 and (ii) on the date of any request by the Guarantor for a Commitment Increase and on the related Increase Date the applicable conditions set forth in Article III shall be satisfied.
Commitment Increase
Increase Date
(b) The Agent shall promptly notify the Lenders of a request by the Guarantor for a Commitment Increase, which notice shall include (i) the proposed amount of such requested Commitment Increase, (ii) the proposed Increase Date and (iii) the date by which Lenders wishing to participate in the Commitment Increase must commit to an increase in the amount of their respective Revolving Credit Commitments (the ). Each Lender that is willing to participate in such requested Commitment Increase (each an ) shall, in its sole discretion, give written notice to the Agent on or prior to the Commitment Date of the amount by which it is willing to increase its Revolving Credit Commitment. If the Lenders notify the Agent that they are willing to increase the amount of their respective Revolving Credit Commitments by an aggregate amount that exceeds the amount of the requested Commitment Increase, the requested Commitment Increase shall be allocated among the Lenders willing to participate therein in such amounts as are agreed between the Guarantor and the Agent.
Commitment Date
Increasing Lender
(c) Promptly following each Commitment Date, the Agent shall notify the Guarantor as to the amount, if any, by which the Lenders are willing to participate in the requested Commitment Increase. If the aggregate amount by which the Lenders are willing to participate in any requested Commitment Increase on any such Commitment Date is less than the requested Commitment Increase, then the Guarantor may extend offers to one or more Eligible Assignees to participate in any portion of the requested Commitment Increase that has not been committed to by the Lenders as of the applicable Commitment Date; provided, however, that the Revolving Credit Commitment of each such Eligible Assignee shall be in an amount of $10,000,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof.
(d) On each Increase Date, each Eligible Assignee that accepts an offer to participate in a requested Commitment Increase in accordance with Section 2.18(b) (each such Eligible Assignee, an ) shall become a Lender party to this Agreement as of such Increase Date and the Revolving Credit Commitment of each Increasing Lender for such requested Commitment Increase shall be so increased by such amount (or by the amount allocated to such Lender pursuant to the last sentence of Section 2.18(b)) as of such Increase Date; provided, however, that the Agent shall have received on or before such Increase Date the following, each dated such date:
Assuming Lender
(i) (A) certified copies of resolutions of the Board of Directors of each Loan Party or the Executive Committee of such Board approving the Commitment Increase and (B) an opinion of counsel for the Loan Parties (which may be in-house counsel), in substantially the form of Exhibits D-1 and D-2 hereto;
(ii) an assumption agreement from each Assuming Lender, if any, in form and substance satisfactory to the Guarantor and the Agent (each an ), duly executed by such Eligible Assignee, the Agent and the Guarantor; and
Assumption Agreement
(iii) confirmation from each Increasing Lender of the increase in the amount of its Commitment in a writing satisfactory to the Guarantor and the Agent.
On each Increase Date, upon fulfillment of the conditions set forth in the immediately preceding sentence of this Section 2.18(d), the Agent shall notify the Lenders (including, without limitation, each Assuming Lender) and the Loan Parties, on or before 1:00 P.M. (New York City time), by telecopier, of the occurrence of the Commitment Increase to be effected on such Increase Date and shall record in the Register the relevant information with respect to each Increasing Lender and each Assuming Lender on such date. Each Increasing Lender and each Assuming Lender shall, before 2:00 P.M. (New York City time) on the Increase Date, make available for the account of its Applicable Lending Office to the Agent at the Agents Account, in same day funds, in the case of such
Assuming Lender, an amount equal to such Assuming Lenders ratable portion of the Borrowings then outstanding (calculated based on its Revolving Credit Commitment as a percentage of the aggregate Revolving Credit Commitments outstanding after giving effect to the relevant Commitment Increase) and, in the case of such Increasing Lender, an amount equal to the excess of (i) such Increasing Lenders ratable portion of the Borrowings then outstanding (calculated based on its Revolving Credit Commitment as a percentage of the aggregate Revolving Credit Commitments outstanding after giving effect to the relevant Commitment Increase) over (ii) such Increasing Lenders ratable portion of the Borrowings then outstanding (calculated based on its Revolving Credit Commitment (without giving effect to the relevant Commitment Increase) as a percentage of the aggregate Revolving Credit Commitments (without giving effect to the relevant Commitment Increase)). After the Agents receipt of such funds from each such Increasing Lender and each such Assuming Lender, the Agent will promptly thereafter cause to be distributed like funds to the other Lenders for the account of their respective Applicable Lending Offices in an amount to each other Lender such that the aggregate amount of the outstanding Advances owing to each Lender after giving effect to such distribution equals such Lenders ratable portion of the Borrowings then outstanding (calculated based on its Revolving Credit Commitment as a percentage of the aggregate Revolving Credit Commitments outstanding after giving effect to the relevant Commitment Increase).
SECTION 2.19. . (a)  If any Letters of Credit are outstanding at the time a Lender becomes a Defaulting Lender, and the Commitments have not been terminated in accordance with Section 6.01, then:
Defaulting Lenders
(i) so long as no Default has occurred and is continuing, all or any part of the Available Amount of outstanding Letters of Credit shall be reallocated among the Lenders that are not Defaulting Lenders () in accordance with their respective Ratable Shares (disregarding any Defaulting Lenders Revolving Credit Commitment) but only to the extent that the sum of (A) the aggregate principal amount of all Advances made by such non-Defaulting Lenders (in their capacity as Lenders) and outstanding at such time, plus (B) such non-Defaulting Lenders Ratable Shares (before giving effect to the reallocation contemplated herein) of the Available Amount of all outstanding Letters of Credit, plus (C) the aggregate principal amount of all Advances made by each Issuing Bank pursuant to Section 2.03(c) that have not been ratably funded by such non-Defaulting Lenders and outstanding at such time, plus (D) such Defaulting Lenders Ratable Share of the Available Amount of such Letters of Credit, does not exceed the total of all non-Defaulting Lenders Revolving Credit Commitments.
non-Defaulting Lenders
(ii) if the reallocation described in clause (i) above cannot, or can only partially, be effected, the Borrowers shall within one Business Day following notice by any Issuing Bank, cash collateralize such Defaulting Lenders Ratable Share of the Available Amount of such Letters of Credit (after giving effect to any partial reallocation pursuant to clause (i) above) by paying cash collateral to such Issuing Bank; provided that, so long as no Default shall be continuing, such cash collateral shall be released promptly upon the earliest of (A) the reallocation of the Available Amount of outstanding Letters of Credit among non-Defaulting Lenders in accordance with clause (i) above, (B) the termination of the Defaulting Lender status of the applicable Lender or (C) such Issuing Banks good faith determination that there exists excess cash collateral (in which case, the amount equal to such excess cash collateral shall be released);
(iii) if the Ratable Shares of Letters of Credit of the non-Defaulting Lenders are reallocated pursuant to this Section 2.19(a), then the fees payable to the Lenders pursuant to Section 2.04(b)(i) shall be adjusted in accordance with such non-Defaulting Lenders Ratable Shares of Letters of Credit;
(iv) if any Defaulting Lenders Ratable Share of Letters of Credit is neither cash collateralized nor reallocated pursuant to this Section 2.19(a), then, without prejudice to any rights or remedies of any Issuing Bank or any Lender hereunder, all Letter of Credit fees payable under Section 2.04(b)(i) with respect to such Defaulting Lenders Ratable Share of Letters of Credit shall be payable to the applicable Issuing Bank until such Defaulting Lenders Ratable Share of Letters of Credit is cash collateralized and/or reallocated; and
(v) to the extent that the Available Amount of any outstanding Letter of Credit is cash collateralized by the Borrowers pursuant to this Section 2.19, the Borrowers shall not be required to pay
any commission otherwise payable pursuant to Section 2.04(b)(i) on that portion of the Available Amount that is so cash collateralized.
(b) So long as any Lender is a Defaulting Lender, no Issuing Bank shall be required to issue, amend or increase any Letter of Credit unless it is satisfied that the related exposure will be 100% covered by the Revolving Credit Commitments of the non-Defaulting Lenders and/or cash collateral will be provided by the applicable Borrower, and participating interests in any such newly issued or increased Letter of Credit shall be allocated among non-Defaulting Lenders in a manner consistent with Section 2.19(a)(i) (and Defaulting Lenders shall not participate therein).
(c) No Revolving Credit Commitment of any Lender shall be increased or otherwise affected, and, except as otherwise expressly provided in this Section 2.19, performance by the Borrowers of their obligations shall not be excused or otherwise modified as a result of the operation of this Section 2.19. The rights and remedies against a Defaulting Lender under this Section 2.19 are in addition to any other rights and remedies which the Borrowers, the Agent, any Issuing Bank or any Lender may have against such Defaulting Lender.
(d) If the Borrowers, the Agent and each Issuing Bank agree in writing in their reasonable determination that a Defaulting Lender should no longer be deemed to be a Defaulting Lender, the Agent will so notify the parties hereto, whereupon as of the effective date specified in such notice and subject to any conditions set forth therein (which may include arrangements with respect to any cash collateral), that Lender will, to the extent applicable, purchase that portion of outstanding Advances of the other Lenders or take such other actions as the Agent may determine to be necessary to cause the Advances and funded and unfunded participations in Letters of Credit to be held on a pro rata basis by the Lenders in accordance with their Ratable Share (without giving effect to Section 2.19(a)), whereupon such Lender will cease to be a Defaulting Lender; provided that no adjustments will be made retroactively with respect to fees accrued or payments made by or on behalf of any Borrower while that Lender was a Defaulting Lender; and provided, further, that except to the extent otherwise expressly agreed by the affected parties, no change hereunder from Defaulting Lender to Lender will constitute a waiver or release of any claim of any party hereunder arising from such Lenders having been a Defaulting Lender.
(e) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, any payment of principal, interest, facility fees, Letter of Credit commissions or other amounts received by the Agent for the account of any Defaulting Lender under this Agreement (whether voluntary or mandatory, at maturity, pursuant to Article VI or otherwise) shall be applied at such time or times as may be determined by the Agent as follows: first, to the payment of any amounts owing by such Defaulting Lender to the Agent hereunder; second, to the payment on a pro rata basis of any amounts owing by such Defaulting Lender to any Issuing Bank hereunder; third, if so determined by the Agent or requested by any Issuing Bank, to be held as cash collateral for future funding obligations of such Defaulting Lender in respect of any participation in any Letter of Credit; fourth, as the Borrowers may request (so long as no Default exists), to the funding of any Advance in respect of which that Defaulting Lender has failed to fund its portion thereof as required by this Agreement, as determined by the Agent; fifth, if so determined by the Agent and the Borrowers, to be held in the L/C Cash Deposit Account and released in order to satisfy obligations of such Defaulting Lender to fund Advances under this Agreement; sixth, to the payment of any amounts owing to the Lenders or the Issuing Banks as a result of any judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction obtained by any Lender or Issuing Bank against such Defaulting Lender as a result of such Defaulting Lenders breach of its obligations under this Agreement; seventh, so long as no Default exists, to the payment of any amounts owing to any Borrower as a result of any judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction obtained by such Borrower against such Defaulting Lender as a result of such Defaulting Lender's breach of its obligations under this Agreement; and eighth, to such Defaulting Lender or as otherwise directed by a court of competent jurisdiction; provided that if (x) such payment is a payment of the principal amount of any Advance in respect of which such Defaulting Lender has not fully funded its appropriate share, and (y) such Advances were made or the related Letters of Credit were issued at a time when the applicable conditions set forth in Article III were satisfied or waived, such payment shall be applied solely to pay the Advances of all non-Defaulting Lenders on a pro rata basis prior to being applied to the payment of any Advances of such Defaulting Lender and provided further that any amounts held as cash collateral for funding obligations of a Defaulting Lender shall be returned to such Defaulting Lender upon the termination of this Agreement and the satisfaction of such Defaulting Lenders obligations hereunder. Any payments, prepayments or other amounts paid or payable to a Defaulting Lender that are applied (or held) to pay amounts owed by a
Defaulting Lender or to post cash collateral pursuant to this Section 2.19 shall be deemed paid to and redirected by such Defaulting Lender, and each Lender irrevocably consents hereto.
SECTION 2.20. .
Mitigation Obligations; Replacement of Lenders
(a) . If any Lender requests compensation under Section 2.11 or requires any Borrower to pay additional amounts to any Lender or any governmental authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to Section 2.14, then such Lender shall (at the request of the Guarantor) use reasonable efforts to designate a different Applicable Lending Office for funding or booking its Advances hereunder or to assign its rights and obligations hereunder to another of its offices, branches or affiliates, if, in the reasonable judgment of such Lender, such designation or assignment (i) would eliminate or reduce amounts payable pursuant to Section 2.11 or 2.14 as the case may be, in the future, and (ii) would not subject such Lender to any unreimbursed cost or expense and would not otherwise be disadvantageous to such Lender. The Borrowers hereby agree to pay all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by any Lender in connection with any such designation or assignment.
Designation of a Different Applicable Lending Office
(b) . If any Lender requests compensation under Section 2.11, or if any Borrower is required to pay additional amounts to any Lender or any governmental authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to Section 2.14 and, in each case, such Lender has declined or is unable to designate a different Applicable Lending Office in accordance with Section 2.20(a), or if any Lender is a Defaulting Lender, then the Guarantor may, at its sole expense and effort and so long as no Default is continuing, upon notice to such Lender and the Agent, require such Lender to assign and delegate, without recourse (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in, and consents required by, Section 9.07), all of its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement to an Eligible Assignee that shall assume such obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment); that:
Replacement of Lenders
provided
(i) the Agent shall have received the assignment fee specified in Section 9.07(b)(iv), that no such fee shall be payable in the case of an assignment made to an assignee that is an existing Lender;
provided
(ii) such Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Advances, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder (including any amounts under Section 9.04(c)) from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or the Borrowers (in the case of all other amounts);
(iii) in the case of any such assignment resulting from a claim for compensation under Section 2.11 or payments required to be made pursuant to Section 2.14, such assignment will result in a reduction in such compensation or payments thereafter; and
(iv) such assignment does not conflict with applicable law.
A Lender shall not be required to make any such assignment or delegation if, prior thereto, as a result of a waiver by such Lender or otherwise, the circumstances entitling the Guarantor to require such assignment and delegation cease to apply.
ARTICLE III
CONDITIONS TO EFFECTIVENESS AND LENDING
SECTION 3.01. . Section 2.01 of this Agreement shall become effective on and as of the first date (the ) on which the following conditions precedent have been satisfied:
Conditions Precedent to Effectiveness of Section 2.01
Effective Date
(a) There shall have occurred no Material Adverse Change since December 31, 2010.
(b) There shall exist no action, suit, investigation, litigation or proceeding affecting the Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries pending or threatened before any court, governmental agency or arbitrator that (i) could be reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect other than the matters described on Schedule 3.01(b) hereto (the ) or (ii) purports to affect the legality, validity or enforceability of this Agreement or any Note or the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, and there shall have been no adverse change in the status, or financial effect on the Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries, of the Disclosed Litigation from that described on Schedule 3.01(b) hereto.
Disclosed Litigation
(c) Nothing shall have come to the attention of the Lenders during the course of their due diligence investigation to lead them to believe that the Information Memorandum was or has become misleading, incorrect or incomplete in any material respect; without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Lenders shall have been given such access to the management, records, books of account, contracts and properties of the Guarantor and its Subsidiaries as they shall have requested.
(d) All governmental and third party consents and approvals necessary in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby shall have been obtained (without the imposition of any conditions that are not acceptable to the Lenders) and shall remain in effect, and no law or regulation shall be applicable in the reasonable judgment of the Lenders that restrains, prevents or imposes materially adverse conditions upon the transactions contemplated hereby.
(e) The Borrowers shall have notified each Lender and the Agent in writing as to the proposed Effective Date.
(f) The Borrowers shall have paid all accrued fees and expenses of the Agent and the Lenders (including the accrued fees and expenses of counsel to the Agent).
(g) On the Effective Date, the following statements shall be true and the Agent shall have received for the account of each Lender a certificate signed by a duly authorized officer of the Guarantor, dated the Effective Date, stating that:
(i) The representations and warranties contained in Section 4.01 are correct on and as of the Effective Date, and
(ii) No event has occurred and is continuing that constitutes a Default.
(h) The Agent shall have received on or before the Effective Date the following, each dated such day, in form and substance satisfactory to the Agent and (except for the Notes) in sufficient copies for each Lender:
(i) The Notes to the order of the Lenders to the extent requested by any Lender pursuant to Section 2.16.
(ii) Certified copies of the resolutions of the Board of Directors of each Loan Party approving this Agreement and the Notes to which it is a party, and of all documents evidencing other necessary corporate action and governmental approvals, if any, with respect to this Agreement and the Notes to which it is a party.
(iii) A certificate of the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of each Loan Party certifying the names and true signatures of the officers of such Loan Party authorized to sign this Agreement and the Notes to which it is a party and the other documents to be delivered by it hereunder.
(iv) A favorable opinion of Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, New York counsel for the Loan Parties, and Macfarlanes LLP, English counsel for OFP, substantially in the form of Exhibits D-1 and D-2 hereto, respectively, and as to such other matters as any Lender through the Agent may reasonably request.
(v) A favorable opinion of Shearman & Sterling LLP, counsel for the Agent, in form and substance satisfactory to the Agent.
SECTION 3.02. . The obligation of each Lender to make an Advance (other than an Advance made by any Issuing Bank or any Lender pursuant to Section 2.03(c)) on the occasion of each Borrowing, the obligation of each Issuing Bank to issue a Letter of Credit and each Commitment Increase shall be subject to the conditions precedent that the Effective Date shall have occurred and on the date of such Borrowing, such issuance or such Increase Date (a) the following statements shall be true (and each of the giving of the applicable Notice of Borrowing, Notice of Issuance, request for Commitment Increase and the acceptance by a Borrower of the proceeds of such Borrowing shall constitute a representation and warranty by such Borrower that on the date of such Borrowing, such issuance or such Increase Date such statements are true):
Conditions Precedent to Each Borrowing, Each Issuance and Each Commitment Increase
(i) the representations and warranties contained in Section 4.01 (except, in the case of a Borrowing or issuance, the representations set forth in the last sentence of subsection (e) thereof and in subsection (f)(i) thereof) are correct on and as of such date, before and after giving effect to such Borrowing, such issuance or such Commitment Increase and to the application of the proceeds therefrom, as though made on and as of such date, and
(ii) no event has occurred and is continuing, or would result from such Borrowing, such issuance or such Commitment Increase or from the application of the proceeds therefrom, that constitutes a Default;
and (b) the Agent shall have received such other approvals, opinions or documents as any Lender through the Agent may reasonably request.
SECTION 3.03. . For purposes of determining compliance with the conditions specified in Section 3.01, each Lender shall be deemed to have consented to, approved or accepted or to be satisfied with each document or other matter required thereunder to be consented to or approved by or acceptable or satisfactory to the Lenders unless an officer of the Agent responsible for the transactions contemplated by this Agreement shall have received notice from such Lender prior to the date that the Borrowers, by notice to the Lenders, designate as the proposed Effective Date, specifying its objection thereto. The Agent shall promptly notify the Lenders of the occurrence of the Effective Date.
Determinations Under Section 3.01
ARTICLE IV
REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES
SECTION 4.01. . The Guarantor represents and warrants as follows:
Representations and Warranties of the Guarantor
(a) Each Loan Party is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its organization.
(b) The execution, delivery and performance by each Loan Party of this Agreement and the Notes to be delivered by it, and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, are within the such Loan Partys corporate powers, have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action, and do not contravene (i) such Loan Partys charter or by-laws or other organizational documents or (ii) any law or any contractual restriction binding on or affecting any Loan Party.
(c) No authorization or approval or other action by, and no notice to or filing with, any governmental authority or regulatory body or any other third party is required for the due execution, delivery and performance by any Loan Party of this Agreement or the Notes to be delivered by it.
(d) This Agreement has been, and each of the Notes to be delivered by it when delivered hereunder will have been, duly executed and delivered by each Loan Party party thereto. This Agreement is, and each of the Notes when delivered hereunder will be, the legal, valid and binding obligation of each Loan Party party thereto enforceable against such Loan Party in accordance with their respective terms.
(e) The Consolidated balance sheet of the Guarantor and its Subsidiaries as at December 31, 2010, and the related Consolidated statements of income and cash flows of the Guarantor and its Subsidiaries for the fiscal year then ended, accompanied by an opinion of KPMG LLP, independent public accountants, and the Consolidated balance sheet of the Guarantor and its Subsidiaries as at June 30, 2011, and the related Consolidated statements of income and cash flows of the Guarantor and its Subsidiaries for the six months then ended, duly certified by the chief financial officer of the Guarantor, copies of which have been furnished to each Lender, fairly present, subject, in the case of said balance sheet as at June 30, 2011, and said statements of income and cash flows for the six months then ended, to year-end audit adjustments, the Consolidated financial condition of the Guarantor and its Subsidiaries as at such dates and the Consolidated results of the operations of the Guarantor and its Subsidiaries for the periods ended on such dates, all in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied. Since December 31, 2010, there has been no Material Adverse Change.
(f) There is no pending or, to the knowledge of the Guarantor, threatened action, suit, investigation, litigation or proceeding, including, without limitation, any Environmental Action, affecting the Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries before any court, governmental agency or arbitrator that (i) could be reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect (other than the Disclosed Litigation), and there has been no adverse change in the status, or financial effect on the Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries, of the Disclosed Litigation from that described on Schedule 3.01(b) hereto or (ii) purports to affect the legality, validity or enforceability of this Agreement or any Note or the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby.
(g) No Loan Party is engaged in the business of extending credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stock (within the meaning of Regulation U issued by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System), and no proceeds of any Advance will be used to purchase or carry any margin stock or to extend credit to others for the purpose of purchasing or carrying any margin stock.
(h) No Loan Party is an investment company, or a company controlled by an investment company, within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
(i) All factual information (taken as a whole) heretofore or contemporaneously furnished by or on behalf of any Loan Party in writing to any Lender (including, without limitation, all information contained in this Agreement) for purposes of or in connection with this Agreement or any transaction contemplated herein is, and all other such factual information (taken as a whole) hereafter furnished by or on behalf of such Loan Party in writing to any Lender will be, true and accurate in all material respects on the date as of which such information is dated or certified and does not or will not omit to state any fact necessary to make such information (taken as a whole) not misleading in any material respect at such time in light of the circumstances under which such information was provided.
ARTICLE V
COVENANTS OF THE GUARANTOR
SECTION 5.01. . So long as any Advance shall remain unpaid or any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, the Guarantor will:
Affirmative Covenants
(a) . Comply, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to comply with all applicable laws, rules, regulations and orders, such compliance to include, without limitation, compliance with ERISA and Environmental Laws except, in each case, to the extent that failure to comply would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Compliance with Laws, Etc
(b) . Pay and discharge, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to pay and discharge, before the same shall become delinquent, (i) all taxes, assessments and governmental charges or levies imposed upon it or upon its property and (ii) all lawful claims that, if unpaid, might by law become a Lien upon its property; provided, however, that neither the Guarantor nor any of its Subsidiaries shall be required to pay or discharge any such tax, assessment, charge or claim that is being contested in good faith and by proper proceedings and as to which appropriate reserves are being maintained.
Payment of Taxes, Etc
(c) . Maintain, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to maintain, insurance with responsible and reputable insurance companies or associations in such amounts and covering such risks as is usually carried by companies engaged in similar businesses and owning similar properties in the same general areas in which the Guarantor or such Subsidiary operates.
Maintenance of Insurance
(d) . Preserve and maintain, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to preserve and maintain, its corporate existence, rights (charter and statutory) and franchises; provided, however, that the Guarantor and its Subsidiaries may consummate any merger or consolidation permitted under Section 5.02(b) and provided further that neither the Guarantor nor any of its Subsidiaries shall be required to preserve any right or franchise, or the existence of any Subsidiary of the Guarantor that is not a Borrower, if the Board of Directors of the Guarantor or the Borrower that is the corporate parent of such Subsidiary shall determine that the preservation thereof is no longer desirable in the conduct of the business of the Guarantor or such Borrower, as the case may be, and that the loss thereof is not disadvantageous in any material respect to the Guarantor, such Borrower or the Lenders.
Preservation of Corporate Existence, Etc
(e) . At any reasonable time and from time to time, permit the Agent or any of the Lenders or any agents or representatives thereof, to examine and make copies of and abstracts from the records and books of account of, and visit the properties of, the Guarantor and any of its Subsidiaries, and to discuss the affairs, finances and accounts of the Guarantor and any of its Subsidiaries with any of their officers or directors and with their independent certified public accountants.
Visitation Rights
(f) . Keep, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to keep, proper books of record and account, in which full and correct entries shall be made of all financial transactions and the assets and business of the Guarantor and each such Subsidiary in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in effect from time to time.
Keeping of Books
(g) . Maintain and preserve, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to maintain and preserve, all of its properties that are used or useful in the conduct of its business in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted.
Maintenance of Properties, Etc
(h) . Conduct, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to conduct, all transactions otherwise permitted under this Agreement with any of their Affiliates on terms that are fair and reasonable and no less favorable to the Guarantor or such Subsidiary than it would obtain in a comparable arms-length transaction with a Person not an Affiliate.
Transactions with Affiliates
(i) . Furnish to the Lenders:
Reporting Requirements
(i) as soon as available and in any event within 50 days after the end of each of the first three quarters of each fiscal year of the Guarantor, the Consolidated balance sheet of the Guarantor and its Subsidiaries as of the end of such quarter and Consolidated statements of income and cash flows of the Guarantor and its Subsidiaries for the period commencing at the end of the previous fiscal year and ending with the end of such quarter, duly certified (subject to year-end audit adjustments) by the chief financial officer of the Guarantor as having been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and certificates of the chief financial officer of the Guarantor as to compliance with the terms of this Agreement and setting forth in reasonable detail the calculations necessary to demonstrate compliance with Section 5.03, provided that in the event of any change in generally accepted accounting principles used in the preparation of such financial statements, the Guarantor shall also provide, if necessary for the determination of compliance with Section 5.03, a statement of reconciliation conforming such financial statements to GAAP;
(ii) as soon as available and in any event within 95 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Guarantor, a copy of the annual audit report for such year for the Guarantor and its Subsidiaries, containing the Consolidated balance sheet of the Guarantor and its Subsidiaries as of the end of such fiscal year and Consolidated statements of income and cash flows of the Guarantor and its Subsidiaries for such fiscal year, in each case accompanied by an opinion acceptable to the Required Lenders by KPMG LLP or other independent public accountants acceptable to the Required Lenders and certificates of the chief financial officer of the Guarantor as to compliance with the terms of this Agreement and setting forth in reasonable detail the calculations necessary to demonstrate compliance with Section 5.03, provided that in the event of any change in generally accepted accounting principles used in the preparation of such financial statements, the Guarantor shall also provide, if necessary for the determination of compliance with Section 5.03, a statement of reconciliation conforming such financial statements to GAAP;
(iii) as soon as possible and in any event within five days after any senior officer of the Guarantor or a Borrower becomes aware or should have become aware of the occurrence of any Default, the occurrence of each Default continuing on the date of such statement, a statement of the chief financial officer of the Guarantor setting forth details of such Default and the action that the Guarantor has taken and proposes to take with respect thereto;
(iv) promptly after the sending or filing thereof, copies of all reports that the Guarantor sends to any of its securityholders, and copies of all reports and registration statements that the Guarantor or any Subsidiary files with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the ) or any national securities exchange;
SEC
(v) promptly after the commencement thereof, notice of all actions and proceedings before any court, governmental agency or arbitrator affecting the Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries of the type described in Section 4.01(f); and
(vi) such other information respecting the Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries as any Lender through the Agent may from time to time reasonably request.
Reports and financial statements required to be delivered by the Guarantor pursuant to clauses (i), (ii), (iv) and (v) of this Section 5.01(i) shall be deemed to have been delivered on the date on which it posts such reports, or reports containing such financial statements, on its website on the Internet at www.omnicomgroup.com or when such reports, or reports containing such financial statements are posted on the SECs website at www.sec.gov; provided that it shall deliver notice that such reports and financial statements are so available and shall deliver paper copies of the reports and financial statements referred to in clauses (i), (ii), (iv) and (v) of this Section 5.01(i) to the Agent or any Lender who requests it to deliver such paper copies until written notice to cease delivering paper copies is given by the Agent or such Lender.
SECTION 5.02. . So long as any Advance shall remain unpaid or any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, the Guarantor will not:
Negative Covenants
(a) . Create or suffer to exist, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to create or suffer to exist, any Lien on or with respect to any of its properties, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, or assign, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to assign, any right to receive income, other than:
Liens, Etc
(i) Permitted Liens,
(ii) purchase money Liens upon or in any real property or equipment acquired or held by the Guarantor or any Subsidiary in the ordinary course of business to secure the purchase price of such property or equipment or to secure Debt incurred solely for the purpose of financing the acquisition of such property or equipment, or Liens existing on such property or equipment at the time of its acquisition (other than any such Liens created in contemplation of such acquisition that were not incurred to finance the acquisition of such property) or extensions, renewals or replacements of any of the foregoing for the same or a lesser amount, provided, however, that no such Lien shall extend to or cover any properties of
any character other than the real property or equipment being acquired and fixed improvements thereon or accessions thereto, and no such extension, renewal or replacement shall extend to or cover any properties not theretofore subject to the Lien being extended, renewed or replaced,
(iii) the Liens existing on the Effective Date and described on Schedule 5.02(a) hereto,
(iv) Liens on property of a Person existing at the time such Person is merged into or consolidated with the Guarantor or any Subsidiary of the Guarantor or becomes a Subsidiary of the Guarantor; provided that such Liens were not created in contemplation of such merger, consolidation or acquisition and do not extend to any assets other than those of the Person so merged into or consolidated with the Guarantor or such Subsidiary or acquired by the Guarantor or such Subsidiary,
(v) Liens securing Debt permitted by Section 5.02(d)(vii),
(vi) Liens granted by Subsidiaries of the Guarantor (other than the Borrowers) to secure Debt permitted by Section 5.02(d)(iv), and
(vii) other Liens securing Debt, provided that the aggregate principal amount of such secured Debt shall not exceed 15% of the Consolidated net worth of the Guarantor and its Subsidiaries at any time.
(b) . Merge or consolidate with or into, or convey, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of (whether in one transaction or in a series of transactions) all or substantially all of its assets (whether now owned or hereafter acquired) to, any Person, or permit any of the Borrowers to do so.
Mergers, Etc
(c) . Make or permit, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to make or permit, any change in accounting policies or reporting practices, except as required or permitted by generally accepted accounting principles.
Accounting Changes
(d) . Permit any of its Subsidiaries to create or suffer to exist, any Debt other than:
Subsidiary Debt
(i) Debt existing on the Effective Date and described on Schedule 5.02(d) hereto (the ), and any Debt extending the maturity of, or refunding or refinancing, in whole or in part, the Existing Debt, provided that the principal amount of such Existing Debt shall not be increased above the principal amount thereof outstanding immediately prior to such extension, refunding or refinancing plus any capitalized fees incurred in connection therewith, and the direct and contingent obligors therefor shall not be changed (other than to release any contingent obligor), as a result of or in connection with such extension, refunding or refinancing,
Existing Debt
(ii) accrued expenses and trade payables incurred in the ordinary course of business, and obligations under trade letters of credit incurred in the ordinary course of business, which are to be repaid in full not more than one year after the date on which such Debt is originally incurred to finance the purchase of goods by such Subsidiary,
(iii) obligations under letters of credit or surety bonds incurred in the ordinary course of business in support of obligations incurred in connection with leases, workers compensation, unemployment insurance and other social security legislation,
(iv) Debt owed to the Guarantor or to a wholly owned Subsidiary of the Guarantor,
(v) Debt of the Borrowers,
(vi) other Debt of Subsidiaries of the Guarantor which are not organized under the laws of the United States of America, a State of the United States of America or the District of Columbia and substantially all of whose assets and business are located or conducted outside the United States of America,
(vii) Debt of a Person existing at the time such Person is merged into or consolidated with the Guarantor or any Subsidiary of the Guarantor or becomes a Subsidiary of the Guarantor; provided that such Debt was not created in contemplation of such merger, consolidation or acquisition, provided further that the aggregate principal amount of the Debt referred to in this clause (vii) shall not exceed $50,000,000 at any time outstanding,
(viii) (x) Debt consisting of any guaranty made by any Subsidiary of the Guarantor in respect of Debt of any Loan Party, provided that such Subsidiary shall have entered into a guaranty of the Debt of the Guarantor under this Agreement in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Required Lenders and (y) Debt constituting guaranties of the Debt of the Guarantor under this Agreement, and
(ix) indorsement of negotiable instruments for deposit or collection or similar transactions in the ordinary course of business.
(e) . Make, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to make, any material change in the nature of its business as carried on at the date hereof and other reasonably related businesses or businesses reasonably incidental thereto.
Change in Nature of Business
(f) . Directly or indirectly, enter into or suffer to exist, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to enter into or suffer to exist, any agreement or arrangement limiting the ability of any of its Subsidiaries to (i) pay dividends or make any other distributions on its capital stock or any other interest or participation in its profits owned by the Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries, or pay any Debt owed to the Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries, (ii) make loans or advances to the Guarantor or (iii) transfer any of its properties or assets to the Guarantor, except for such agreements or arrangements existing under or by reason of (x) applicable law, (y) this Agreement and (z) customary provisions restricting subletting or assignment of any lease governing a leasehold interest of a Subsidiary of the Guarantor.
Payment Restrictions Affecting Subsidiaries
SECTION 5.03. . So long as any Advance shall remain unpaid or any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, the Guarantor will:
Financial Covenants
(a) . Maintain a ratio of Consolidated Debt for Borrowed Money of the Guarantor and its Subsidiaries to Consolidated EBITDA of the Guarantor and its Subsidiaries for the four quarters most recently ended of not greater than 3.0 to 1.
Leverage Ratio
(b) . Maintain a ratio of Consolidated EBITDA of the Guarantor and its Subsidiaries for the four quarters most recently ended to interest payable on, and amortization of debt discount in respect of, all Debt during such period by the Guarantor and its Subsidiaries of not less than 5.0 to 1.
Interest Coverage Ratio
ARTICLE VI
EVENTS OF DEFAULT
SECTION 6.01. . If any of the following events () shall occur and be continuing:
Events of Default
Events of Default
(a) Any Borrower shall fail to pay any principal of any Advance when the same becomes due and payable; or any Borrower shall fail to pay any interest on any Advance or make any other payment of fees or other amounts payable under this Agreement or any Note within three Business Days after the same becomes due and payable; or
(b) Any representation or warranty made by the Guarantor herein or by any Loan Party (or any of its officers) in connection with this Agreement shall prove to have been incorrect in any material respect when made; or
(c) (i) The Guarantor shall fail to perform or observe any term, covenant or agreement contained in Section 5.01(d), (e), (h) or (i), 5.02 or 5.03, or (ii) any Loan Party shall fail to perform or observe any other term, covenant or agreement contained in this Agreement on its part to be performed or observed if such failure shall remain unremedied for 30 days after written notice thereof shall have been given to the Guarantor by the Agent or any Lender; or
(d) The Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries shall fail to pay any principal of or premium or interest on any Debt that is outstanding in a principal or notional amount of at least $100,000,000 in the aggregate (but excluding Debt outstanding hereunder) of the Guarantor or such Subsidiary (as the case may be), when the same becomes due and payable (whether by scheduled maturity, required prepayment, acceleration, demand or otherwise), and such failure shall continue after the applicable grace period, if any, specified in the agreement or instrument relating to such Debt; or any other event shall occur or condition shall exist under any agreement or instrument relating to any such Debt and shall continue after the applicable grace period, if any, specified in such agreement or instrument, if the effect of such event or condition is to accelerate, or to permit the acceleration of, the maturity of such Debt; or any such Debt shall be declared to be due and payable, or required to be prepaid or redeemed (other than by a regularly scheduled required prepayment or redemption), purchased or defeased, or an offer to prepay, redeem, purchase or defease such Debt shall be required to be made, in each case prior to the stated maturity thereof; or
(e) The Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries shall generally not pay its debts as such debts become due, or shall admit in writing its inability to pay its debts generally, or shall make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors; or any proceeding shall be instituted by or against the Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries seeking to adjudicate it a bankrupt or insolvent, or seeking liquidation, winding up, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, protection, relief, or composition of it or its debts under any law relating to bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization or relief of debtors, or seeking the entry of an order for relief or the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official for it or for any substantial part of its property and, in the case of any such proceeding instituted against it (but not instituted by it), either such proceeding shall remain undismissed or unstayed for a period of 60 days, or any of the actions sought in such proceeding (including, without limitation, the entry of an order for relief against, or the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official for, it or for any substantial part of its property) shall occur; or the Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries shall take any corporate action to authorize any of the actions set forth above in this subsection (e); or
(f) Judgments or orders for the payment of money in excess of $100,000,000 in the aggregate shall be rendered against the Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries and either (i) enforcement proceedings shall have been commenced by any creditor upon such judgment or order or (ii) there shall be any period of 60 consecutive days during which a stay of enforcement of such judgment or order, by reason of a pending appeal or otherwise, shall not be in effect; provided, however, that any such judgment or order shall not be an Event of Default under this Section 6.01(f) if and for so long as (i) the amount of such judgment or order is covered by a valid and binding policy of insurance between the defendant and the insurer covering payment thereof and (ii) such insurer, which shall be rated at least A by A.M. Best Company, has been notified of, and has not disputed the claim made for payment of, the amount of such judgment or order; or
(g) (i) Any Person or two or more Persons acting in concert shall have acquired beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 of the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934), directly or indirectly, of Voting Stock of the Guarantor (or other securities convertible into such Voting Stock) representing 30% or more of the combined voting power of all Voting Stock of the Guarantor; or (ii) during any period of up to 12 consecutive months, commencing after the date of this Agreement, individuals who at the beginning of such 12-month period were directors of the Guarantor shall cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the board of directors of the Guarantor; or (iii) the Guarantor shall cease for any reason to own, directly or indirectly, 100% of the Voting Stock of each of the Borrowers; or
(h) Any material provision of the Guaranty shall cease to be valid and binding on or enforceable against the Guarantor, or the Guarantor shall so state in writing; or
(i) The Guarantor or any of its ERISA Affiliates shall incur, or shall be reasonably likely to incur liability in excess of $100,000,000 in the aggregate as a result of one or more of the following: (i) the occurrence of any ERISA Event; (ii) the partial or complete withdrawal of the Guarantor or any of its ERISA Affiliates from a Multiemployer Plan; or (iii) the reorganization or termination of a Multiemployer Plan;
then, and in any such event, the Agent (i) shall at the request, or may with the consent, of the Required Lenders, by notice to the Borrowers, declare the obligation of each Lender to make Advances (other than Advances by an Issuing Bank or a Lender pursuant to Section 2.03(c)) and of the Issuing Banks to issue Letters of Credit to be terminated, whereupon the same shall forthwith terminate, and (ii) shall at the request, or may with the consent, of the Required Lenders, by notice to the Borrowers, declare the Advances, all interest thereon and all other amounts payable under this Agreement to be forthwith due and payable, whereupon the Advances, all such interest and all such amounts shall become and be forthwith due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or further notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by each Borrower; provided, however, that in the event of an actual or deemed entry of an order for relief with respect to any Loan Party under the Federal Bankruptcy Code, (A) the obligation of each Lender to make Advances (other than Advances by an Issuing Bank or a Lender pursuant to Section 2.03(c)) and of the Issuing Banks to issue Letters of Credit shall automatically be terminated and (B) the Advances, all such interest and all such amounts shall automatically become and be due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or any notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrowers.
SECTION 6.02. . If any Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, the Agent may with the consent, or shall at the request, of the Required Lenders, irrespective of whether it is taking any of the actions described in Section 6.01 or otherwise, make demand upon the Borrowers to, and forthwith upon such demand the Borrowers will, (a) pay to the Agent for the benefit of the Lenders in same day funds at the Agents office designated in such demand, for deposit in the L/C Cash Deposit Account, an amount equal to the aggregate Available Amount of all Letters of Credit then outstanding or (b) make such other arrangements in respect of the outstanding Letters of Credit as shall be acceptable to the Required Lenders. If at any time the Agent determines that any funds held in the L/C Cash Deposit Account are subject to any right or interest of any Person other than the Agent and the Lenders or that the total amount of such funds is less than the aggregate Available Amount of all Letters of Credit, the Borrowers will, forthwith upon demand by the Agent, pay to the Agent, as additional funds to be deposited and held in the L/C Cash Deposit Account, an amount equal to the excess of (a) such aggregate Available Amount over (b) the total amount of funds, if any, then held in the L/C Cash Deposit Account that are free and clear of any such right and interest. Upon the drawing of any Letter of Credit, to the extent funds are on deposit in the L/C Cash Deposit Account, such funds shall be applied to reimburse the Issuing Banks to the extent permitted by applicable law, and if so applied, then such reimbursement shall be deemed a repayment of the corresponding Advance in respect of such Letter of Credit. After all such Letters of Credit shall have expired or been fully drawn upon and all other obligations of the Borrowers hereunder and under the Notes shall have been paid in full, the balance, if any, in such L/C Cash Deposit Account shall be promptly returned to the Borrowers.
Actions in Respect of Letters of Credit upon Default
ARTICLE VII
GUARANTY
SECTION 7.01. . The Guarantor hereby absolutely, unconditionally and irrevocably guarantees the punctual payment when due, whether at scheduled maturity or on any date of a required prepayment or by acceleration, demand or otherwise, of all obligations of each other Loan Party now or hereafter existing under or in respect of this Agreement and the Notes (including, without limitation, any extensions, modifications, substitutions, amendments or renewals of any or all of the foregoing obligations), whether direct or indirect, absolute or contingent, and whether for principal, interest, premiums, fees, indemnities, contract causes of action, costs, expenses or otherwise (such obligations being the ), and agrees to pay any and all expenses (including, without limitation, fees and expenses of outside counsel and the allocated costs and expenses of in-house counsel) incurred by the Agent or any Lender in enforcing any rights under this Agreement. Without
Guaranty
Guaranteed Obligations
limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Guarantors liability shall extend to all amounts that constitute part of the Guaranteed Obligations and would be owed by any other Loan Party to the Agent or any Lender under or in respect of this Agreement and the Notes but for the fact that they are unenforceable or not allowable due to the existence of a bankruptcy, reorganization or similar proceeding involving such other Loan Party.
SECTION 7.02. . The Guarantor guarantees that the Guaranteed Obligations will be paid strictly in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and the Notes, regardless of any law, regulation or order now or hereafter in effect in any jurisdiction affecting any of such terms or the rights of the Agent or any Lender with respect thereto. This Guaranty is an absolute and unconditional guaranty of payment when due, and not of collection, by the Guarantor of the Guaranteed Obligations. The obligations of the Guarantor under or in respect of this Guaranty are independent of the Guaranteed Obligations or any other obligations of any other Loan Party under or in respect of this Agreement and the Notes, and a separate action or actions may be brought and prosecuted against the Guarantor to enforce this Guaranty, irrespective of whether any action is brought against any Borrower or whether any Borrower is joined in any such action or actions. The liability of the Guarantor under this Guaranty shall be irrevocable, absolute and unconditional irrespective of, and the Guarantor hereby irrevocably waives any defenses it may now have or hereafter acquire in any way relating to, any or all of the following:
Guaranty Absolute
(a) any lack of validity or enforceability of any provision of this Agreement or any Note or any agreement or instrument relating thereto;
(b) any change in the time, manner or place of payment of, or in any other term of, all or any of the Guaranteed Obligations or any other obligations of any Borrower under or in respect of this Agreement or the Notes, or any other amendment or waiver of or any consent to departure from this Agreement or the Notes, including, without limitation, any increase in the Guaranteed Obligations resulting from the extension of additional credit to any Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or otherwise;
(c) any taking, exchange, release or non-perfection of any collateral, or any taking, release or amendment or waiver of, or consent to departure from, any other guaranty, for all or any of the Guaranteed Obligations;
(d) any manner of application of collateral, or proceeds thereof, to all or any of the Guaranteed Obligations, or any manner of sale or other disposition of any collateral for all or any of the Guaranteed Obligations or any other obligations of any Loan Party under this Agreement or the Notes or any other assets of any Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries;
(e) any change, restructuring or termination of the corporate structure or existence of any Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries;
(f) any failure of the Agent or any Lender to disclose to the Guarantor any information relating to the business, condition (financial or otherwise), operations, performance, properties or prospects of any Borrower now or hereafter known to the Agent or such Lender (the Guarantor waiving any duty on the part of the Agent and the Lenders to disclose such information);
(g) the failure of any other Person to execute or deliver any other guaranty or agreement or the release or reduction of liability of the Guarantor or other guarantor or surety with respect to the Guaranteed Obligations; or
(h) any other circumstance (including, without limitation, any statute of limitations) or any existence of or reliance on any representation by the Agent or any Lender that might otherwise constitute a defense available to, or a discharge of, any Loan Party or any other guarantor or surety.
This Guaranty shall continue to be effective or be reinstated, as the case may be, if at any time any payment of any of the Guaranteed Obligations is rescinded or must otherwise be returned by the Agent or any Lender or any other Person upon the insolvency, bankruptcy or reorganization of any Borrower or otherwise, all as though such payment had not been made.
SECTION 7.03. . (a) The Guarantor hereby unconditionally and irrevocably waives promptness, diligence, notice of acceptance, presentment, demand for performance, notice of nonperformance, default, acceleration, protest or dishonor and any other notice with respect to any of the Guaranteed Obligations and this Guaranty and any requirement that the Agent or any Lender protect, secure, perfect or insure any Lien or any property subject thereto or exhaust any right or take any action against any Loan Party or any other Person or any collateral.
Waivers and Acknowledgments
(b) The Guarantor hereby unconditionally and irrevocably waives any right to revoke this Guaranty and acknowledges that this Guaranty is continuing in nature and applies to all Guaranteed Obligations, whether existing now or in the future.
(c) The Guarantor hereby unconditionally and irrevocably waives (i) any defense arising by reason of any claim or defense based upon an election of remedies by the Agent or any Lender that in any manner impairs, reduces, releases or otherwise adversely affects the subrogation, reimbursement, exoneration, contribution or indemnification rights of the Guarantor or other rights of the Guarantor to proceed against any of the other Loan Parties, any other guarantor or any other Person or any collateral and (ii) any defense based on any right of set-off or counterclaim against or in respect of the obligations of the Guarantor hereunder.
(d) The Guarantor hereby unconditionally and irrevocably waives any duty on the part of the Agent or any Lender to disclose to the Guarantor any matter, fact or thing relating to the business, condition (financial or otherwise), operations, performance, properties or prospects of any other Loan Party or any of its Subsidiaries now or hereafter known by the Agent or such Lender.
(e) The Guarantor acknowledges that it will receive substantial direct and indirect benefits from the financing arrangements contemplated by this Agreement and that the waivers set forth in Section 7.02 and this Section 7.03 are knowingly made in contemplation of such benefits.
SECTION 7.04. . The Guarantor hereby unconditionally and irrevocably agrees not to exercise any rights that it may now have or hereafter acquire against any Borrower or any other insider guarantor that arise from the existence, payment, performance or enforcement of the Guarantors obligations under or in respect of this Guaranty, including, without limitation, any right of subrogation, reimbursement, exoneration, contribution or indemnification and any right to participate in any claim or remedy of the Agent or any Lender against any Borrower or any other insider guarantor or any collateral, whether or not such claim, remedy or right arises in equity or under contract, statute or common law, including, without limitation, the right to take or receive from any Borrower or any other insider guarantor, directly or indirectly, in cash or other property or by set-off or in any other manner, payment or security on account of such claim, remedy or right, unless and until all of the Guaranteed Obligations and all other amounts payable under this Guaranty shall have been paid in full in cash and the Commitments shall have expired or been terminated. If any amount shall be paid to the Guarantor in violation of the immediately preceding sentence at any time prior to the later of the payment in full in cash of the Guaranteed Obligations and all other amounts payable under this Guaranty and the Termination Date, such amount shall be received and held in trust for the benefit of Agent and the Lenders, shall be segregated from other property and funds of the Guarantor and shall forthwith be paid or delivered to the Agent in the same form as so received (with any necessary endorsement or assignment) to be credited and applied to the Guaranteed Obligations and all other amounts payable under this Guaranty, whether matured or unmatured, in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, or to be held as collateral for any Guaranteed Obligations or other amounts payable under this Guaranty thereafter arising. If (i) the Guarantor shall make payment to the Agent or any Lender of all or any part of the Guaranteed Obligations, (ii) all of the Guaranteed Obligations and all other amounts payable under this Guaranty shall have been paid in full in cash and (iii) the Termination Date shall have occurred, the Agent and the Lenders will, at the Guarantors request and expense, execute and deliver to the Guarantor appropriate documents, without recourse and without representation or warranty, necessary to evidence the transfer by subrogation to the Guarantor of an interest in the Guaranteed Obligations resulting from such payment made by the Guarantor pursuant to this Guaranty.
Subrogation
SECTION 7.05. . The Guarantor hereby subordinates any and all debts, liabilities and other obligations owed to the Guarantor by each other Loan Party (the ) to the Guaranteed Obligations to the extent and in the manner hereinafter set forth in this Section 7.05:
Subordination
Subordinated Obligations
(a) . In any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law relating to any other Loan Party, the Guarantor agrees that the Agent and the Lenders shall be entitled to receive payment in full in cash of all Guaranteed Obligations (including all interest and expenses accruing after the commencement of a proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law, whether or not constituting an allowed claim in such proceeding ()) before the Guarantor receives payment of any Subordinated Obligations.
Prior Payment of Guaranteed Obligations
Post Petition Interest
(b) . After the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default under Section 6.01(e), the Guarantor shall, if the Agent so requests, collect, enforce and receive payments on account of the Subordinated Obligations as trustee for the Agent and the Lenders and deliver such payments to the Agent on account of the Guaranteed Obligations (including all Post Petition Interest), together with any necessary endorsements or other instruments of transfer, but without reducing or affecting in any manner the liability of the Guarantor under the other provisions of this Guaranty.
Turn-Over
(c) . After the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default under Section 6.01(e), the Agent is authorized and empowered (but without any obligation to so do), in its discretion, (i) in the name of the Guarantor, to collect and enforce, and to submit claims in respect of, Subordinated Obligations and to apply any amounts received thereon to the Guaranteed Obligations (including any and all Post Petition Interest), and (ii) to require the Guarantor (A) to collect and enforce, and to submit claims in respect of, Subordinated Obligations and (B) to pay any amounts received on such obligations to the Agent for application to the Guaranteed Obligations (including any and all Post Petition Interest).
Agent Authorization
SECTION 7.06. . This Guaranty is a continuing guaranty and shall (a) remain in full force and effect until the later of the payment in full in cash of the Guaranteed Obligations and all other amounts payable under this Guaranty and the Termination Date, (b) be binding upon the Guarantor, its successors and assigns and (c) inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the Agent and the Lenders and their successors, transferees and assigns. Without limiting the generality of clause (c) of the immediately preceding sentence, any Lender may assign or otherwise transfer all or any portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including, without limitation, all or any portion of its Commitments, the Advances owing to it and the Note or Notes held by it) to any other Person, and such other Person shall thereupon become vested with all the benefits in respect thereof granted to such Lender herein or otherwise, in each case as and to the extent provided in Section 9.07. The Guarantor shall not have the right to assign its rights hereunder or any interest herein without the prior written consent of each of the Lenders.
Continuing Guaranty; Assignments
ARTICLE VIII
THE AGENT
SECTION 8.01. . Each Lender hereby irrevocably appoints Citibank to act on its behalf as the Agent hereunder and authorizes the Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Agent by the terms hereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto. The provisions of this Article VIII are solely for the benefit of the Agent and the Lenders, and neither the Guarantor nor any other Loan Party shall have rights as a third party beneficiary of any of such provisions. It is understood and agreed that the use of the term agent herein or in any Note (or any other similar term) with reference to the Agent is not intended to connote any fiduciary or other implied (or express) obligations arising under agency doctrine of any applicable law. Instead such term is used as a matter of market custom, and is intended to create or reflect only an administrative relationship between contracting parties.
Authorization and Authority
SECTION 8.02. . (a) The Person serving as the Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Agent and the term Lender or Lenders shall, unless otherwise expressly indicated or unless the context otherwise requires, include the Person serving as the Agent hereunder in its individual capacity. Such Person and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to, own securities of, act as the financial advisor or in any other advisory capacity for and generally engage in any kind of business with the Guarantor or any Subsidiary or other Affiliate thereof as if such Person were not the Agent hereunder and without any duty to account therefor to the Lenders.
Rights as a Lender
SECTION 8.03. . (a) The Agents duties hereunder are solely ministerial and administrative in nature and the Agent shall not have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth herein. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Agent:
Duties of Agent; Exculpatory Provisions
(i) shall not be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties, regardless of whether a Default has occurred and is continuing;
(ii) shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, except discretionary rights and powers expressly contemplated hereby that the Agent is required to exercise as directed in writing by the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be expressly provided for herein); provided that the Agent shall not be required to take any action that, in its opinion or the opinion of its counsel, may expose the Agent to liability or that is contrary to this Agreement or applicable law, including for the avoidance of doubt any action that may be in violation of the automatic stay under any debtor relief law or that may effect a forfeiture, modification or termination of property of a Defaulting Lender in violation of any debtor relief law; and
(iii) shall not, except as expressly set forth herein, have any duty to disclose, and shall not be liable for the failure to disclose, any information relating to the Guarantor or any of its Affiliates that is communicated to or obtained by the Agent or any of its Affiliates in any capacity.
(b) The Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it (i) with the consent or at the request of the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary, or as the Agent shall believe in good faith shall be necessary, under the circumstances as provided in Sections 9.01 or 6.01) or (ii) in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct. The Agent shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Default or the event or events that give or may give rise to any Default unless and until the Guarantor or any Lender shall have given notice to the Agent describing such Default and such event or events.
(c) The Agent shall not be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty, representation or other information made or supplied in or in connection with this Agreement or the Information Memorandum, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered hereunder or thereunder or in connection herewith or therewith or the adequacy, accuracy and/or completeness of the information contained therein, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth herein or therein or the occurrence of any Default, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of this Agreement or any other agreement, instrument or document or the perfection or priority of any Lien or security interest created or purported to be created hereby or (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in Article III or elsewhere herein, other than (but subject to the foregoing clause (ii)) to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Agent.
(d) Nothing in this Agreement shall require the Agent or any of its Related Parties to carry out any know your customer or other checks in relation to any person on behalf of any Lender and each Lender confirms to the Agent that it is solely responsible for any such checks it is required to carry out and that it may not rely on any statement in relation to such checks made by the Agent or any of its Related Parties.
SECTION 8.04. . The Agent shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing (including any electronic message, Internet or intranet website posting or other distribution) believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed, sent or otherwise authenticated by the proper Person. The Agent also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to have been made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon. In determining compliance with any condition hereunder to the making of an Advance, or the issuance of a Letter of Credit, that by its terms must be fulfilled to the satisfaction of a Lender, the Agent may presume that such condition is satisfactory to such Lender unless an officer of the Agent responsible for the transactions contemplated hereby shall have received notice to the contrary from such Lender prior to the making of such Advance or the issuance of such Letter of Credit, and in the case of a Borrowing, such Lender shall not have made available to the Agent such Lenders ratable portion of such Borrowing. The Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for the Guarantor or any other Loan Party), independent
Reliance by Agent
accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts.
SECTION 8.05. . The Agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers hereunder by or through any one or more sub-agents appointed by the Agent. The Agent and any such sub-agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through their respective Related Parties. Each such sub-agent and the Related Parties of the Agent and each such sub-agent shall be entitled to the benefits of all provisions of this Article VIII and Section 9.04 (as though such sub-agents were the Agent hereunder) as if set forth in full herein with respect thereto.
Delegation of Duties
SECTION 8.06. . (a) The Agent may at any time give notice of its resignation to the Lenders and the Guarantor. Upon receipt of any such notice of resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right, in consultation with the Guarantor, to appoint a successor Agent, which shall be a bank with an office in New York, New York, or an Affiliate of any bank with an office in New York, New York. If no such successor Agent shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Agent gives notice of its resignation (such 30-day period, the ), then the retiring Agent may on behalf of the Lenders, appoint a successor Agent meeting the qualifications set forth above. In addition and without any obligation on the part of the retiring Agent to appoint, on behalf of the Lenders, a successor Agent, the retiring Agent may at any time upon or after the end of the Lender Appointment Period notify the Guarantor and the Lenders that no qualifying Person has accepted appointment as successor Agent and the effective date of such retiring Agents resignation. Upon the resignation effective date established in such notice and regardless of whether a successor Agent has been appointed and accepted such appointment, the retiring Agents resignation shall nonetheless become effective and (i) the retiring Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations as Agent hereunder and (ii) all payments, communications and determinations provided to be made by, to or through the Agent shall instead be made by or to each Lender directly, until such time as the Required Lenders appoint a successor Agent as provided for above in this Section 8.06(a). Upon the acceptance of a successor Agents appointment as Agent hereunder, such successor Agent shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties as Agent of the retiring (or retired) Agent, and the retiring Agent shall be discharged from all of its duties and obligations as Agent hereunder (if not already discharged therefrom as provided above in this Section 8.06(a)). The fees payable by the Borrowers to a successor Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between the Borrowers and such successor Agent. After the retiring Agents resignation hereunder, the provisions of this Article VIII and Section 9.04 shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring Agent, its sub-agents and their respective Related Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while the retiring Agent was acting as Agent.
Resignation of Agent
Lender Appointment Period
(b) Any resignation pursuant to this Section 8.06 by a Person acting as Agent shall, unless such Person shall notify the Borrowers and the Lenders otherwise, also act to relieve such Person and its Affiliates of any obligation to issue new, or extend existing, Letters of Credit where such issuance or extension is to occur on or after the effective date of such resignation. Upon the acceptance of a successor Agents appointment as Agent hereunder, (i) such successor Agent shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring Issuing Bank, (ii) the retiring Issuing Bank shall be discharged from all of its duties and obligations hereunder, and (iii) the successor Issuing Bank shall issue letters of credit in substitution for the Letters of Credit, if any, outstanding at the time of such succession or make other arrangement satisfactory to the retiring Issuing Bank to effectively assume the obligations of the retiring Issuing Bank with respect to such Letters of Credit.
SECTION 8.07. . (a) Each Lender confirms to the Agent, each other Lender and each of their respective Related Parties that it (i) possesses (individually or through its Related Parties) such knowledge and experience in financial and business matters that it is capable, without reliance on the Agent, any other Lender or any of their respective Related Parties, of evaluating the merits and risks (including tax, legal, regulatory, credit, accounting and other financial matters) of (x) entering into this Agreement, (y) making Advances and other extensions of credit hereunder and (z) in taking or not taking actions hereunder, (ii) is financially able to bear such risks and (iii) has determined that entering into this Agreement and making Advances and other extensions of credit hereunder is suitable and appropriate for it.
Non-Reliance on Agent and Other Lenders
(b) Each Lender acknowledges that (i) it is solely responsible for making its own independent appraisal and investigation of all risks arising under or in connection with this Agreement, (ii) that it
has, independently and without reliance upon the Agent, any other Lender or any of their respective Related Parties, made its own appraisal and investigation of all risks associated with, and its own credit analysis and decision to enter into, this Agreement based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate and (iii) it will, independently and without reliance upon the Agent, any other Lender or any of their respective Related Parties, continue to be solely responsible for making its own appraisal and investigation of all risks arising under or in connection with, and its own credit analysis and decision to take or not take action under, this Agreement based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, which may include, in each case:   
(i) the financial condition, status and capitalization of the Guarantor and each other Loan Party;
(ii) the legality, validity, effectiveness, adequacy or enforceability of this Agreement and any other agreement, arrangement or document entered into, made or executed in anticipation of, under or in connection with this Agreement;
(iii) determining compliance or non-compliance with any condition hereunder to the making of an Advance, or the issuance of a Letter of Credit and the form and substance of all evidence delivered in connection with establishing the satisfaction of each such condition; and
(iv) the adequacy, accuracy and/or completeness of the Information Memorandum and any other information delivered by the Agent, any other Lender or by any of their respective Related Parties under or in connection with this Agreement, the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby or any other agreement, arrangement or document entered into, made or executed in anticipation of, under or in connection with this Agreement.
SECTION 8.08. . Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, none of the Persons acting as Bookrunners, Arrangers, syndication agent or documentation agent listed on the cover page hereof shall have any powers, duties or responsibilities under this Agreement, except in its capacity, as applicable, as the Agent or as a Lender hereunder.
No Other Duties, Etc
ARTICLE IX
MISCELLANEOUS
SECTION 9.01. . No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or the Notes, nor consent to any departure by any Loan Party therefrom, shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be in writing and signed by the Required Lenders and (except for waivers or consents by any Lender) each of the Loan Parties, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which given; , , that (a) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by all the Lenders, do any of the following: (i) waive any of the conditions specified in Section 3.01, (ii) change the percentage of the Revolving Credit Commitments or of the aggregate unpaid principal amount of the Advances, or the number of Lenders, that shall be required for the Lenders or any of them to take any action hereunder, (iii) reduce or limit the obligations of the Guarantor under Section 7.01 or release the Guarantor or otherwise limit the Guarantors liability with respect to the obligations owing to the Agent and the Lenders under Article VII or (iv) amend this Section 9.01 and (b) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by each of the Lenders directly affected thereby, do any of the following: (i) other than as provided in Section 2.18, increase the Commitments of the Lenders, (ii) reduce the principal of, or rate of interest on, the Advances or any fees or other amounts payable hereunder, (iii) postpone any date fixed for any payment of principal of, or interest on, the Advances or any fees or other amounts payable hereunder, (iv) amend the definition of Committed Currencies to add any additional currency, and that (x) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Agent in addition to the Lenders required above to take such action, affect the rights or duties of the Agent under this Agreement or any Note and (y) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Issuing Banks in addition to the Lenders required above to take such action, adversely affect the rights or obligations of the Issuing Banks in their capacities as such under this Agreement.
Amendments, Etc
provided
however
provided
further
SECTION 9.02. . (a) . Except in the case of notices and other communications expressly permitted to be given by telephone (and except as provided in paragraph (b) below), all notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by facsimile as follows:
Notices, Etc
Notices Generally
(i) if to any Loan Party, to it at the address of the Guarantor at One East Weaver Street, Greenwich, Connecticut 06831, Attention: Eric Huttner (Facsimile No. 203 618-1550; Telephone No. 203 625-3041);
(ii) if to the Agent, to Citibank at 1615 Brett Road, Building #3, New Castle, Delaware 19720, Attention: Bank Loan Syndications (Facsimile No. 212-994-0961; Telephone No. 203-894-6070);
(iii) if to an Issuing Bank, to it at the address provided in writing to the Agent and the Borrowers;
(iv) if to a Lender, to it at its address (or facsimile number) set forth in its Administrative Questionnaire.
Notices sent by hand or overnight courier service, or mailed by certified or registered mail, shall be deemed to have been given when received; notices sent by facsimile shall be deemed to have been given when sent with written confirmation of error-free transmission (except that, if not given during normal business hours for the recipient, shall be deemed to have been given at the opening of business on the next Business Day for the recipient). Notices delivered through electronic communications, to the extent provided in paragraph (b) below, shall be effective as provided in said paragraph (b).
(b) . Notices and other communications to the Lenders and the Issuing Banks hereunder may be delivered or furnished by electronic communication (including e-mail and Internet or intranet websites) pursuant to procedures approved by the Agent, provided that the foregoing shall not apply to notices to any Lender or Issuing Bank pursuant to Article II if such Lender or Issuing Bank, as applicable, has notified the Agent that it is incapable of receiving notices under such Article by electronic communication. The Agent or any Loan Party may, in its discretion, agree to accept notices and other communications to it hereunder by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by it; provided that approval of such procedures may be limited to particular notices or communications. Unless the Agent otherwise prescribes, (i) notices and other communications sent to an e-mail address shall be deemed received upon the senders receipt of an acknowledgement from the intended recipient (such as by the return receipt requested function, as available, return e-mail or other written acknowledgement), and (ii) notices and other communications posted to an Internet or intranet website shall be deemed received upon the deemed receipt by the intended recipient, at its e-mail address as described in the foregoing clause (i), of notification that such notice or communication is available and identifying the website address therefor; provided that, for both clauses (i) and (ii) above, if such notice or other communication is not sent during the normal business hours of the recipient, such notice or communication shall be deemed to have been sent at the opening of business on the next Business Day for the recipient.
Electronic Communications
(c) . Any party hereto may change its address or facsimile number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto.
Change of Address, Etc
(d) .
Platform
(i) Each Loan Party agrees that the Agent may, but shall not be obligated to, make the Communications (as defined below) available to the Issuing Banks and the Lenders by posting the Communications on Debt Domain, Intralinks, Syndtrak or a substantially similar electronic transmission system (the ).
Platform
(ii) The Platform is provided as is and as available. The Agent Parties (as defined below) do not warrant the adequacy of the Platform and expressly disclaim liability for errors or
omissions in the Communications. No warranty of any kind, express, implied or statutory, including, without limitation, any warranty of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement of third-party rights or freedom from viruses or other code defects, is made by any Agent Party in connection with the Communications or the Platform. In no event shall the Agent or any of its Related Parties (collectively, the ) have any liability to the Loan Parties, any Lender, any Issuing Bank or any other Person or entity for damages of any kind, including, without limitation, direct or indirect, special, incidental or consequential damages, losses or expenses (whether in tort, contract or otherwise) arising out of the Agents transmission of Communications through the Platform.  means, collectively, any notice, demand, communication, information, document or other material that any Loan Party provides to the Agent pursuant to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby which is made available by the Agent to any Lender or any Issuing Bank by posting same on the Platform.
Agent Parties
Communications
SECTION 9.03. . No failure on the part of any Lender or the Agent to exercise, and no delay in exercising, any right hereunder or under any Note shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right. The remedies herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any remedies provided by law.
No Waiver; Remedies
SECTION 9.04. . (a) The Borrowers agree to pay on demand all costs and expenses of the Agent in connection with the preparation, execution, delivery, administration, modification and amendment of this Agreement, the Notes and the other documents to be delivered hereunder, including, without limitation, (A) all due diligence, syndication (including printing, distribution and bank meetings), transportation, computer, duplication, appraisal, consultant, and audit expenses and (B) the reasonable fees and expenses of counsel for the Agent with respect thereto and with respect to advising the Agent as to its rights and responsibilities under this Agreement. The Borrowers further agree to pay on demand all costs and expenses of the Agent and the Lenders, if any (including, without limitation, reasonable fees and expenses of outside counsel and the allocated costs and expenses of in-house counsel), in connection with the enforcement (whether through negotiations, legal proceedings or otherwise) of this Agreement, the Notes and the other documents to be delivered hereunder, including, without limitation, reasonable fees and expenses of counsel for the Agent and each Lender in connection with the enforcement of rights under this Section 9.04(a).
Costs and Expenses
(b) The Borrowers agree to indemnify and hold harmless the Agent and each Lender and each of their Affiliates and their officers, directors, employees, agents and advisors (each, an ) from and against any and all claims, damages, losses, liabilities and expenses (including, without limitation, reasonable fees and expenses of counsel) incurred by or asserted or awarded against any Indemnified Party, in each case arising out of or in connection with or by reason of (including, without limitation, in connection with any investigation, litigation or proceeding or preparation of a defense in connection therewith) (i) the Notes, this Agreement, any of the transactions contemplated herein or the actual or proposed use of the proceeds of the Advances or (ii) the actual or alleged presence of hazardous materials on any property of the Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries or any Environmental Action relating in any way to the Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries, except to the extent such claim, damage, loss, liability or expense is found in a final, non-appealable judgment by a court of competent jurisdiction to have resulted from such Indemnified Partys gross negligence or willful misconduct. In the case of an investigation, litigation or other proceeding to which the indemnity in this Section 9.04(b) applies, such indemnity shall be effective whether or not such investigation, litigation or proceeding is brought by any Loan Party, its directors, equityholders or creditors or an Indemnified Party or any other Person, whether or not any Indemnified Party is otherwise a party thereto and whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby are consummated. The Loan Parties also agree not to assert any claim for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages against the Agent, any Lender, any of their Affiliates, or any of their respective directors, officers, employees, attorneys and agents, on any theory of liability, arising out of or otherwise relating to the Notes, this Agreement, any of the transactions contemplated herein or the actual or proposed use of the proceeds of the Advances.
Indemnified Party
(c) If any payment of principal of, or Conversion of, any Eurocurrency Rate Advance is made by any Borrower to or for the account of a Lender (i) other than on the last day of the Interest Period for such Advance, as a result of a payment or Conversion pursuant to Section 2.08, 2.10 or 2.12, acceleration of the maturity of the Notes pursuant to Section 6.01 or for any other reason, or by an Eligible Assignee to a Lender other than on the last day of the Interest Period for such Advance upon an assignment of rights and obligations under this
Agreement pursuant to Section 9.07 as a result of a demand by the Guarantor pursuant to Section 2.20 or (ii) as a result of a payment or Conversion pursuant to Section 2.08, 2.10 or 2.12, the Borrower of such Advance shall, upon demand by such Lender (with a copy of such demand to the Agent), pay to the Agent for the account of such Lender any amounts required to compensate such Lender for any additional losses, costs or expenses that it may reasonably incur as a result of such payment or Conversion, including, without limitation, any loss (including loss of anticipated profits), cost or expense incurred by reason of the liquidation or reemployment of deposits or other funds acquired by any Lender to fund or maintain such Advance. If the amount of the Committed Currency purchased by any Lender in the case of a Conversion or exchange of Advances in the case of Section 2.08 or 2.12 exceeds the sum required to satisfy such Lenders liability in respect of such Advances, such Lender agrees to remit to the applicable Borrower such excess.
(d) Without prejudice to the survival of any other agreement of the Borrowers hereunder, the agreements and obligations of the Borrowers contained in Sections 2.11, 2.14 and 9.04 shall survive the payment in full of principal, interest and all other amounts payable hereunder and under the Notes.
(e) Reimbursement by Lenders. Each Lender severally agrees to indemnify the Agent and each Issuing Bank (in each case, to the extent not promptly reimbursed by the Borrowers or the Guarantor) from and against such Lenders ratable share of any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities, obligations, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, disbursements and expenses, joint or several, of any kind or nature (including the fees, charges and disbursements of any advisor or counsel for such Person that may be imposed on, incurred by, or asserted against the Agent or any Issuing Bank, as the case may be, in their capacities as such, in any way relating to or arising out of this Agreement or any action taken or omitted by the Agent or any Issuing Bank hereunder; provided, however, that no Lender shall be liable for any portion of such losses, claims, damages, liabilities, obligations, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, disbursements or expenses resulting from the Agents or such Issuing Banks gross negligence or willful misconduct as found in a final, non-appealable judgment by a court of competent jurisdiction. Without limitation of the foregoing, each Lender agrees to reimburse the Agent and each Issuing Bank for its ratable share of any costs and expenses (including, without limitation, fees and expenses of counsel) payable by the Borrowers under Section 9.04(a), to the extent that the Agent or such Issuing Bank is not promptly reimbursed for such costs and expenses by the Borrowers or the Guarantor.
SECTION 9.05. . Upon either (a) the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default under Section 6.01(a) or 6.01(e) or (b) (i) the occurrence and during the continuance of any other Event of Default and (ii) the making of the request or the granting of the consent specified by Section 6.01 to authorize the Agent to declare the Advances due and payable pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.01, each Lender and each of its Affiliates is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final) at any time held and other indebtedness at any time owing by such Lender or such Affiliate to or for the credit or the account of any Loan Party against any and all of the obligations of such Loan Party now or hereafter existing under this Agreement and any Advance held by such Lender, whether or not such Lender shall have made any demand under this Agreement or such Advance and although such obligations may be unmatured. Each Lender agrees promptly to notify the applicable Loan Party after any such set-off and application, provided that the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such set-off and application. The rights of each Lender and its Affiliates under this Section 9.05 are in addition to other rights and remedies (including, without limitation, other rights of set-off) that such Lender and its Affiliates may have.
Right of Set-off
SECTION 9.06. . This Agreement shall become effective (other than Section 2.01, which shall only become effective upon satisfaction of the conditions precedent set forth in Section 3.01) when it shall have been executed by each Loan Party and the Agent and when the Agent shall have been notified by each Initial Lender that such Initial Lender has executed it and thereafter shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Loan Parties, the Agent and each Lender and their respective successors and assigns and each Indemnified Party, except that no Loan Party shall have the right to assign its rights hereunder or any interest herein without the prior written consent of each of the Lenders.
Binding Effect
SECTION 9.07. . (a) . No Lender or Issuing Bank may assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder except (i) to an assignee in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section 9.07, (ii) by way of participation in
Assignments and Participations
Successors and Assigns Generally
accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d) of this Section 9.07, or (iii) by way of pledge or assignment of a security interest subject to the restrictions of paragraph (f) of this Section 9.07 (and any other attempted assignment or transfer by any party hereto shall be null and void). Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, shall be construed to confer upon any Person (other than the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, Participants to the extent provided in paragraph (d) of this Section 9.07 and, to the extent expressly contemplated hereby, the Related Parties of each of the Agent, the Lenders and the Issuing Banks) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement. 
(b) . Any Lender or Issuing Bank may at any time assign to one or more assignees all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment (except that an Issuing Bank may only assign all or a portion of its Unissued Letter of Credit Commitment and not its issued Letters of Credit) and the Advances at the time owing to it); provided that (in each case with respect to any Facility) any such assignment shall be subject to the following conditions:
Assignments by Lenders and Issuing Banks
(i) .
Minimum Amounts
(A) in the case of an assignment of the entire remaining amount of the assigning Lenders or Issuing Banks Commitment and/or the Advances at the time owing to it (in each case with respect to any Facility) or contemporaneous assignments to related Approved Funds that equal at least the amount specified in paragraph (b)(i)(B) of this Section 9.07 in the aggregate or in the case of an assignment to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund, no minimum amount need be assigned; and
(B) in any case not described in paragraph (b)(i)(A) of this Section 9.07, the aggregate amount of the Commitment (which for this purpose includes Advances outstanding and participations in Letters of Credit thereunder) or, if the applicable Commitment is not then in effect, the principal outstanding balance of the Advances of the assigning Lender or Issuing Bank subject to each such assignment (determined as of the date the Assignment and Assumption with respect to such assignment is delivered to the Agent or, if Trade Date is specified in the Assignment and Assumption, as of the Trade Date) shall not be less than $10,000,000, unless each of the Agent and, so long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Guarantor otherwise consents (each such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed).
(ii) . Each partial assignment shall be made as an assignment of a proportionate part of all the assigning Lenders or Issuing Banks rights and obligations under this Agreement with respect to the Advance or the Commitment assigned, except that this clause (ii) shall not prohibit any Lender from assigning all or a portion of its rights and obligations among separate Facilities on a non-pro rata basis.
Proportionate Amounts
(iii) . No consent shall be required for any assignment except to the extent required by paragraph (b)(i)(B) of this Section 9.07 and, in addition:
Required Consents
(A) the consent of the Guarantor (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required unless (x) an Event of Defaulthas occurred and is continuing at the time of such assignment, or (y) such assignment is to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund; that the Guarantor shall be deemed to have consented to any such assignment unless it shall object thereto by written notice to the Agent within five Business Days after having received notice thereof and ,, that the Guarantors consent shall not be required during the primary syndication of the Facilities;
provided
provided
further
(B) the consent of the Agent (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required if such assignment is to a Person that is not a Lender, an Affiliate of such Lender or an Approved Fund; and
(C) the consent of each Issuing Bank (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required for any assignment under the Revolving Credit Facility.
(iv) . The parties to each assignment shall execute and deliver to the Agent an Assignment and Assumption, together with a processing and recordation fee of $3,500; provided that the Agent may, in its sole discretion, elect to waive such processing and recordation fee in the case of any assignment. The assignee, if it is not a Lender, shall deliver to the Agent an Administrative Questionnaire.
Assignment and Assumption
(v) . No such assignment shall be made to (A) the Guarantor or any of the Guarantors Affiliates or Subsidiaries or (B) to any Defaulting Lender or any of its Subsidiaries, or any Person who, upon becoming a Lender hereunder, would be a Defaulting Lender or a Subsidiary of a Defaulting Lender.
No Assignment to Certain Persons
(vi) . No such assignment shall be made to a natural Person.
No Assignment to Natural Persons
(vii) . In connection with any assignment of rights and obligations of any Defaulting Lender hereunder, no such assignment shall be effective unless and until, in addition to the other conditions thereto set forth herein, the parties to the assignment shall make such additional payments to the Agent in an aggregate amount sufficient, upon distribution thereof as appropriate (which may be outright payment, purchases by the assignee of participations or subparticipations, or other compensating actions, including funding, with the consent of the Guarantor and the Agent, the applicable pro rata share of Advances previously requested but not funded by the Defaulting Lender, to each of which the applicable assignee and assignor hereby irrevocably consent), to (x) pay and satisfy in full all payment liabilities then owed by such Defaulting Lender to the Agent, each Issuing Bank and each other Lender hereunder (and interest accrued thereon), and (y) acquire (and fund as appropriate) its full pro rata share of all Advances and participations in Letters of Credit in accordance with its Ratable Share. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that any assignment of rights and obligations of any Defaulting Lender hereunder shall become effective under applicable law without compliance with the provisions of this clause (vii), then the assignee of such interest shall be deemed to be a Defaulting Lender for all purposes of this Agreement until such compliance occurs.
Certain Additional Payments
Subject to acceptance and recording thereof by the Agent pursuant to paragraph (c) of this Section 9.07, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Assumption, the assignee thereunder shall be a party to this Agreement and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, have the rights and obligations of a Lender or Issuing Bank, as the case may be, under this Agreement, and the assigning Lender or Issuing Bank thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Assumption covering all of the assigning Lenders or Issuing Banks rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender or Issuing Bank shall cease to be a party hereto) but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of Sections 2.11 and 9.04 with respect to facts and circumstances occurring prior to the effective date of such assignment; , that except to the extent otherwise expressly agreed by the affected parties, no assignment by a Defaulting Lender will constitute a waiver or release of any claim of any party hereunder arising from that Lenders having been a Defaulting Lender. Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this Section 9.07(b) shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with paragraph (d) of this Section 9.07.
provided
(c) . The Agent, acting solely for this purpose as an agent of the Borrowers, shall maintain at one of its offices in the United States a copy of each Assignment and Assumption delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders and the Issuing Banks, and the Commitments of, and principal amounts of the Advances owing to, each Lender and Issuing Bank pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the ). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive absent manifest error, and the Loan Parties, the Agent, the Lenders and the Issuing Banks shall treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender or an Issuing Bank, as the case may be, hereunder for all purposes
Register
Register
of this Agreement. The Register shall be available for inspection by any Loan Party, any Lender and any Issuing Bank, at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
(d) .
Participations
(i) Any Lender may at any time, without the consent of, or notice to, the Guarantor or the Agent, sell participations to any Person (other than a natural Person or the Guarantor or any of the Guarantors Affiliates or Subsidiaries) (each buyer of a Participation, a ) in all or a portion of such Lenders rights and/or obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and/or the Advances owing to it); provided that (A) such Lenders obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (B) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations, and (C) the Loan Parties, the Agent, the Issuing Banks and the Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lenders rights and obligations under this Agreement. For the avoidance of doubt, each Lender shall be responsible for the indemnity under Section 9.04(e) with respect to any payments made by such Lender to its Participant(s).
Participant
(ii) Any agreement or instrument pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce this Agreement and to approve any amendment, waiver or consent of any provision of this Agreement; provided that such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, modification or waiver described in clause (a) of the first proviso of Section 9.01 that directly affects such Participant. The Borrowers agree that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of Section 2.11 to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section 9.07; that such Participant agrees to be subject to the provisions of Sections 2.20 as if it were an assignee under paragraph (b) of this Section 9.07. To the extent permitted by law, each Participant also shall be entitled to the benefits of Section 9.05 as though it were a Lender; provided that such Participant agrees to be subject to Section 2.15 as though it were a Lender.
provided
(e) . A Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under Sections 2.11 and 2.14 than the applicable Lender would have been entitled to receive with respect to the participation sold to such Participant, unless the sale of the participation to such Participant is made with the Guarantors prior written consent. A Participant that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction outside of the United States shall not be entitled to the benefits of Section 2.14 unless the Guarantor is notified of the participation sold to such Participant and such Participant agrees, for the benefit of the Borrowers, to comply with Section 2.14(e) as though it were a Lender.
Limitations upon Participant Rights
(f) . Any Lender may at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement to secure obligations of such Lender, including any pledge or assignment to secure obligations to a Federal Reserve Bank or any central bank having jurisdiction over such Lender; that no such pledge or assignment shall release such Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or assignee for such Lender as a party hereto.
Certain Pledges
provided
SECTION 9.08. . (a) Each of the Agent, the Lenders and the Issuing Banks agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the Confidential Information, except that Confidential Information may be disclosed (a) to its Affiliates and to its and its Affiliates respective managers, administrators, trustees, partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, advisors and other representatives (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Confidential Information and instructed to keep such Confidential Information confidential), (b) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations, or requested by any regulatory authority purporting to have jurisdiction over it (including any self-regulatory authority, such as the National Association of Insurance Commissioners), or by any subpoena or similar legal process, (c) to any other party hereto, (d) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or under any Note or any action or proceeding between or among the parties hereto relating to this Agreement or any Note or the enforcement of rights hereunder or thereunder, (f) subject to an agreement containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section 9.08(a), to (i) any assignee of or participant in, or any prospective assignee of or participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement, (ii) any actual or prospective party (or its managers, administrators, trustees, partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, advisors and other
Confidentiality
representatives) to any swap, derivative or other transaction under which payments are to be made by reference to a Loan Party and its obligations, this Agreement or payments hereunder, (iii) any rating agency, or (iv) the CUSIP Service Bureau or any similar organization, (g) with the consent of the Guarantor or (h) to the extent such Confidential Information (x) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section 9.08(a) or (y) becomes available to the Agent, any Lender, any Issuing Bank or any of their respective Affiliates on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than a Loan Party.
(b) Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Confidential Information as provided in Section 9.08(a) shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Confidential Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information.
SECTION 9.09. . This Agreement and the Notes shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law
SECTION 9.10. . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page to this Agreement by telecopier shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement.
Execution in Counterparts
SECTION 9.11. . (a) If for the purposes of obtaining judgment in any court it is necessary to convert a sum due hereunder in Dollars into another currency, the parties hereto agree, to the fullest extent that they may effectively do so, that the rate of exchange used shall be that at which in accordance with normal banking procedures the Agent could purchase Dollars with such other currency at Citibanks principal office in London at 11:00 A.M. (London time) on the Business Day preceding that on which final judgment is given.
Judgment
(b) If for the purposes of obtaining judgment in any court it is necessary to convert a sum due hereunder in a Committed Currency into Dollars, the parties agree to the fullest extent that they may effectively do so, that the rate of exchange used shall be that at which in accordance with normal banking procedures the Agent could purchase such Committed Currency with Dollars at Citibanks principal office in London at 11:00 A.M. (London time) on the Business Day preceding that on which final judgment is given.
(c) The obligation of the Borrowers in respect of any sum due from it in any currency (the ) to any Lender or the Agent hereunder shall, notwithstanding any judgment in any other currency, be discharged only to the extent that on the Business Day following receipt by such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be), of any sum adjudged to be so due in such other currency, such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) may in accordance with normal banking procedures purchase the applicable Primary Currency with such other currency; if the amount of the applicable Primary Currency so purchased is less than such sum due to such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) in the applicable Primary Currency, the Borrowers agree, as a separate obligation and notwithstanding any such judgment, to indemnify such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) against such loss, and if the amount of the applicable Primary Currency so purchased exceeds such sum due to any Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) in the applicable Primary Currency, such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) agrees to remit to the applicable Borrower such excess.
Primary Currency
SECTION 9.12. . (a) Each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably and unconditionally submits, for itself and its property, to the exclusive jurisdiction of any New York State court or federal court of the United States of America sitting in New York City, Borough of Manhattan, and any appellate court from any thereof, in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the Notes, or for recognition or enforcement of any judgment, and each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that all claims in respect of any such action or proceeding may be heard and determined in any such New York State court or, to the extent permitted by law, in such federal court. The Loan Parties hereby agree that service of process in any such action or proceeding brought in the any such New York State court or in such federal court may be made upon the Guarantor at its offices at One East Weaver Street, Greenwich, Connecticut 06831 Attention: General Counsel and the Loan Parties hereby irrevocably appoint the Guarantor its authorized agent to accept such service of process, and agrees that the failure of the Guarantor to give any notice of any such service
Jurisdiction, Etc
shall not impair or affect the validity of such service or of any judgment rendered in any action or proceeding based thereon. Each Loan Party hereby further irrevocably consents to the service of process in any action or proceeding in such courts by the mailing thereof by any parties hereto by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, to such Loan Party at its address specified pursuant to Section 9.02. Each of the parties hereto agrees that a final judgment in any such action or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by law. Nothing in this Agreement shall affect any right that any party may otherwise have to bring any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or the Notes in the courts of any jurisdiction.
(b) Each of the parties hereto irrevocably and unconditionally waives, to the fullest extent it may legally and effectively do so, any objection that it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the Notes in any New York State or federal court. Each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the defense of an inconvenient forum to the maintenance of such action or proceeding in any such court.
SECTION 9.13. . If a change in any Committed Currency occurs pursuant to any applicable law, rule or regulation of any governmental, monetary or multi-national authority, this Agreement (including, without limitation, the definitions of Eurocurrency Rate) will be amended to the extent determined by the Agent (acting reasonably and in consultation with the Guarantor) to be necessary to reflect the change in currency and to put the Lenders and the Borrowers in the same position, so far as possible, that they would have been in if no change in such Committed Currency had occurred.
Substitution of Currency
SECTION 9.14. The Borrowers assume all risks of the acts or omissions of any beneficiary or transferee of any Letter of Credit with respect to its use of such Letter of Credit. Neither an Issuing Bank nor any of its officers or directors shall be liable or responsible for: (a) the use that may be made of any Letter of Credit or any acts or omissions of any beneficiary or transferee in connection therewith; (b) the validity, sufficiency or genuineness of documents, or of any endorsement thereon, even if such documents should prove to be in any or all respects invalid, insufficient, fraudulent or forged; (c) payment by such Issuing Bank against presentation of documents that do not comply with the terms of a Letter of Credit, including failure of any documents to bear any reference or adequate reference to the Letter of Credit; or (d) any other circumstances whatsoever in making or failing to make payment under any Letter of Credit, except that the applicable Borrower shall have a claim against such Issuing Bank, and such Issuing Bank shall be liable to such Borrower, to the extent of any direct, but not consequential, damages suffered by such Borrower that were caused by (i) such Issuing Banks willful misconduct or gross negligence in determining whether documents presented under any Letter of Credit comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit or (ii) such Issuing Banks grossly negligent or willful failure to make lawful payment under a Letter of Credit after the presentation to it of a draft and certificates strictly complying with the terms and conditions of the Letter of Credit. In furtherance and not in limitation of the foregoing, such Issuing Bank may accept documents that appear on their face to be in order, without responsibility for further investigation, regardless of any notice or information to the contrary.
No Liability of the Issuing Banks
SECTION 9.15. . Each Lender hereby notifies each Loan Party that pursuant to the requirements of the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the ), it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies each Loan Party, which information includes the name and address of each Loan Party and other information that will allow such Lender to identify such Loan Party in accordance with the Act.
Patriot Act
Act
SECTION 9.16. . Each of the Loan Parties, the Agent and the Lenders hereby irrevocably waives all right to trial by jury in any action, proceeding or counterclaim (whether based on contract, tort or otherwise) arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the Notes or the actions of the Agent or any Lender in the negotiation, administration, performance or enforcement thereof.
Waiver of Jury Trial
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized, as of the date first above written.
OMNICOM CAPITAL INC., as Borrower
By:
/s/ Dennis E. Hewitt
Name: Dennis E. Hewitt
Title: President and Chief Executive Officer
OMNICOM FINANCE PLC, as Borrower
By:
/s/ Dennis E. Hewitt
Name: Dennis E. Hewitt
Title: Director
OMNICOM GROUP INC., as Guarantor
By:
/s/ Dennis E. Hewitt
Name: Dennis E. Hewitt
Title: Treasurer
CITIBANK, N.A., as Agent
By:
/s/ Carolyn Kee
Name: Carolyn Kee
Title: Vice President
CITIBANK, N.A.
 
By:  
/s/ Carolyn Kee
Name:  Carolyn Kee
Title:  Vice President
JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A.
 
By:  
/s/ Goh Siew Tan
Name:  Goh Siew Tan
Title:  Vice President
BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.
 
By:  
/s/ Michael Makaitis
Name:  Michael Makaitis
Title:  Vice President
HSBC BANK USA, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
 
By:  
/s/ Thomas T. Rogers
Name:  Thomas T. Rogers
Title:  Senior Vice President
WELLS FARGO BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
 
By:  
/s/ Tony Sood
Name:  Tony Sood
Title:  Director
BNP PARIBAS
 
By:  
/s/ Simone Vinocour
Name:  Simone Vinocour
Title:  Managing Director
By:  
/s/ Berangere Allan
Name:  Berangere Allan
Title:  Director
THE BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ, LTD., NEW YORK BRANCH
By:  
/s/ George Stoecklein
Name:  George Stoecklein
Title:  Vice President
 
DEUTSCHE BANK AG NEW YORK BRANCH
By:  
/s/ Yvonne Tilden
Name:  Yvonne Tilden
Title:  Director
By:  
/s/ Andreas Neumeier
Name:  Andreas Neumeier
Title:  Managing Director
BANCO BILBAO VIZCAYA ARGENTARIA, S.A. NEW YORK BRANCH
By:  
/s/ Guilherme Gobbo
Name:  Guilherme Gobbo
Title:  Vice President
By:  
/s/ Matias Cruces
Name:  Matias Cruces
Title:  Executive Director
SUMITOMO MITSUI BANKING CORPORATION
By:  
/s/ David W. Kee
Name:  David W. Kee
Title:  Managing Director
U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
By:  
/s/ Corey Davis
Name:  Corey Davis
Title:  Vice President
BARCLAYS BANK PLC
By:  
/s/ Ben Hickes
Name:  Ben Hickes
Title:  Authorised Signatory
SOCIETE GENERALE
By:  
/s/ Ambrish Thanawala
Name:  Ambrish Thanawala
Title:  Managing Director
DANSKE BANK A/S
By:  
/s/ Martin Engholm
Name:  Martin Engholm
Title:  VP
By:  
/s/ Ole Hatting
Name:  Ole Hatting
Title:  Senior Chief Legal Advisor
ING BANK N.V., DUBLIN BRANCH
By:  
/s/ Padraig Matthews
Name:  Padraig Matthews
Title:  Vice President
By:  
/s/ Aidan Neill
Name:  Aidan Neill
Title:  Director
INTESA SANPAOLO S.P.A. - NEW YORK BRANCH
By:  
/s/ Robert Wurster
Name:  Robert Wurster
Title:  Senior Vice President
By:  
/s/ Francesco DiMario
Name:  Francesco DiMario
Title:  FVP and Head of Credit
MIZUHO CORPORATE BANK
By:  
/s/ Bertram H. Tang
Name:  Bertram H. Tang
Title:  Authorized Signatory
THE NORTHERN TRUST COMPANY
By:  
/s/ Clifford Hoppe
Name:  Clifford Hoppe
Title:  Second Vice President
PNC BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
By:  
/s/ Michael Nardo
Name:  Michael Nardo
Title:  Executive Vice President
THE BANK OF NOVA SCOTIA
By:  
/s/ David Mahmood
Name:  David Mahmood
Title:  MD  Execution Head
STANDARD CHARTERED BANK
By:  
/s/ James P. Hughes
Name:  James P. Hughes A2386
Title:  Director
By:  
/s/ Robert K. Reddington
Name:  Robert K. Reddington
Title:  Credit Documentation Manager,            Credit Documentation Unit, WB Legal-Americas
COMERICA BANK
By:  
/s/ Chris Rice
Name:  Chris Rice
Title:  AVP
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANKING GROUP LIMITED
By:  
/s/ Robert Grillo
Name:  Robert Grillo
Title:  Director
THE GOVERNOR & COMPANY OF THE BANK OF IRELAND
By:  
/s/ Darren Brennan
Name:  Darren Brennan
Title:  Authorised Signatory
By:  
/s/ K. Rockett
Name:  K. Rockett
Title:  Senior Manager
KEYBANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
By:  
/s/ Marcel Fournier
Name:  Marcel Fournier
Title:  Vice President
LLOYDS TSB BANK PLC
By:  
/s/ Charles Foster
Name:  Charles Foster
Title:  Managing Director
By:  
/s/ Richard Herder
Name:  Richard Herder
Title:  Managing Director
NATIONAL AUSTRALIA BANK LIMITED
By:  
/s/ Courtney Cloe
Name:  Courtney Cloe
Title:  Director, Client Coverage Americas
UNICREDIT BANK AG, NEW YORK BRANCH
By:  
/s/ Kimberly Sousa
Name:  Kimberly Sousa
Title:  Director
By:  
/s/ Elaine Tung
Name:  Elaine Tung
Title:  Director
WESTPAC BANKING CORPORATION
By:  
/s/ Henrik Jensen
Name:  Henrik Jensen
Title:  Director, Corporate & Institutional Banking
THE BANK OF CHINA, NEW YORK BRANCH
By:  
/s/ Shiqiang Wu
Name:  Shiqiang Wu
Title:  General Manager
BANCO BRADESCO S.A., NEW YORK BRANCH
By:  
/s/ Andre Felipe S. Fernandes
Name:  Andre Felipe S. Fernandes
Title:  Manager
By:  
/s/ Roberto Medeiros Paula
Name:  Roberto Medeiros Paula
Title:  General Manager
NORDEA BANK FINLAND PLC., NEW YORK & CAYMAN ISLAND BRANCHES
By:  
/s/ Christer Svardh
Name:  Christer Svardh
Title:  First Vice President
By:  
/s/ Gerald E. Chelius, Jr.
Name:  Gerald E. Chelius, Jr.
Title:  SVP Credit
SCHEDULE I
OMNICOM GROUP
AMENDED AND RESTATED FIVE YEAR CREDIT AGREEMENT
COMMITMENTS OF INITIAL LENDERS AND INITIAL ISSUING BANKS
 
 
SCHEDULE 2.01(b)
EXISTING LETTERS OF CREDIT
None.
 
SCHEDULE 3.01(b)
DISCLOSED LITIGATION
None.
 
SCHEDULES 5.02(a) AND 5.02(d)
EXISTING LIENS AND EXISTING DEBT
SECURED OBLIGATIONS 
UNSECURED OBLIGATIONS 
Omnicom Group Inc. has three zero coupon convertible bonds outstanding maturing in 2032, 2033 and 2038. The principal amounts outstanding for each of these bonds are $252,772,000, $84,000 and $406,622,000, respectively. In addition, Omnicom group Inc. has three USD-denominated notes. The notes consist of a 5.90% note with a principal amount outstanding of $1,000,000,000 which matures in 2016, a 6.25% note with a principal amount outstanding of $500,000,000 which matures in 2019 and a 4.45% note with a principal amount outstanding of $1,000,000,000 which matures in 2020. 
 
EXHIBIT A - FORM OF
PROMISSORY NOTE
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned, [OMNICOM CAPITAL INC., a Connecticut corporation][OMNICOM FINANCE PLC, a public limited company organized under the laws of England and Wales], (the ), HEREBY PROMISES TO PAY to the order of _________________________ (the ) for the account of its Applicable Lending Office on the Termination Date (each as defined in the Credit Agreement referred to below) the principal sum of U.S.$[amount of the Lenders Commitment in figures] or, if less, the aggregate principal amount of the Advances made by the Lender to the Borrower pursuant to the Amended and Restated Five Year Credit Agreement dated as of October 12, 2011 among the Borrowers referred to therein (including the undersigned), the Guarantor, the Lender and the other lenders parties thereto, the Initial Issuing Banks, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, as lead arrangers and book managers, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Bank of America, N.A., as syndication agents, HSBC Bank USA, National Association, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association and Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria, S.A. New York Branch, as documentation agents, and Citibank, N.A. as Agent for the Lender and the other lenders parties thereto (as amended or modified from time to time, the Credit Agreement; the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined) outstanding on the Termination Date.
Borrower
Lender
The Borrower promises to pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Advance from the date of such Advance until such principal amount is paid in full, at such interest rates, and at such times, as are specified in the Credit Agreement.
Both principal and interest in respect of each Advance (i) in Dollars are payable in lawful money of the United States of America to the Agent at its account maintained at 388 Greenwich Street, New York, New York 10013, in same day funds and (ii) in any Committed Currency are payable in such currency at the applicable Payment Office in same day funds. Each Advance owing to the Lender by the Borrower pursuant to the Credit Agreement, and all payments made on account of principal thereof, shall be recorded by the Lender and, prior to any transfer hereof, endorsed on the grid attached hereto which is part of this Promissory Note.
This Promissory Note shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
This Promissory Note is one of the Notes referred to in, and is entitled to the benefits of, the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement, among other things, (i) provides for the making of Advances by the Lender to the Borrower from time to time in an aggregate amount not to exceed at any time outstanding, subject to Section 2.10(b) of the Credit Agreement, 103% of the Dollar amount first above mentioned, the indebtedness of the Borrower resulting from each such Advance being evidenced by this Promissory Note, (ii) contains provisions for determining the Dollar Equivalent of Advances denominated in Committed Currencies and (iii) contains provisions for acceleration of the maturity hereof upon the happening of certain stated events and also for prepayments on account of principal hereof prior to the maturity hereof upon the terms and conditions therein specified.
 
[OMNICOM CAPITAL INC.]
[OMNICOM FINANCE PLC]
By_______________________
Title:
ADVANCES AND PAYMENTS OF PRINCIPAL
EXHIBIT B - FORM OF NOTICE OF
BORROWING
Citibank, N.A., as Agent
for the Lenders parties
to the Credit Agreement
referred to below
1615 Brett Road, Building #3
New Castle, Delaware 19720
[Date]
Attention: Bank Loan Syndications Department
Ladies and Gentlemen:
The undersigned, [Omnicom Capital Inc.][Omnicom Finance plc], (the ), refers to the Amended and Restated Five Year Credit Agreement, dated as of October 12, 2011 (as amended or modified from time to time, the , the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among the Borrowers referred to therein (including the undersigned), the Guarantor, the Lenders parties thereto, the Initial Issuing Banks, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, as lead arrangers and book managers, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Bank of America, N.A., as syndication agents, HSBC Bank USA, National Association, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association and Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria, S.A. New York Branch, as documentation agents, and Citibank, N.A., as Agent for said Lenders, and hereby gives you notice, irrevocably, pursuant to Section 2.02 of the Credit Agreement that the undersigned hereby requests a Borrowing under the Credit Agreement, and in that connection sets forth below the information relating to such Borrowing (the ) as required by Section 2.02(a) of the Credit Agreement:
Borrower
Credit Agreement
Proposed Borrowing
(i) The Business Day of the Proposed Borrowing is _______________, 20__.
(ii) The Type of Advances comprising the Proposed Borrowing is [Base Rate Advances] [Eurocurrency Rate Advances].
(iii) The aggregate amount of the Proposed Borrowing is [$_______________][for a Borrowing in a Committed Currency, list currency and amount of Borrowing].
[(iv) The initial Interest Period for each Eurocurrency Rate Advance made as part of the Proposed Borrowing is _____ month[s]. [If nine or twelve months is selected, specify alternate Interest Period of one, two, three or six months.]
The undersigned hereby certifies that the following statements are true on the date hereof, and will be true on the date of the Proposed Borrowing:
(A) the representations and warranties contained in Section 4.01 of the Credit Agreement (except the representations set forth in the last sentence of subsection (e) thereof and in subsection (f)(i) thereof)) are correct, before and after giving effect to the Proposed Borrowing and to the application of the proceeds therefrom, as though made on and as of such date; and
(B) no event has occurred and is continuing, or would result from such Proposed Borrowing or from the application of the proceeds therefrom, that constitutes a Default.
Very truly yours,
[OMNICOM CAPITAL INC.]
[OMNICOM FINANCE PLC]
By_______________________
Title:
 
___________________ EXHIBIT C - FORM OF
CUSIP Number:
ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION
Assignment and Assumption
 
This Assignment and Assumption (the ) is dated as of the Effective Date set forth below and is entered into by and between [the][each] Assignor identified in item 1 below ([the][each, an] ) and [the][each]Assignee identified in item 2 below ([the][each, an] ). [It is understood and agreed that the rights and obligations of [the Assignors][the Assignees] hereunder are several and not joint.] Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Credit Agreement identified below (as amended, the ), receipt of a copy of which is hereby acknowledged by [the][each] Assignee. The Standard Terms and Conditions set forth in Annex 1 attached hereto are hereby agreed to and incorporated herein by reference and made a part of this Assignment and Assumption as if set forth herein in full.
Assignment and Assumption
1
Assignor
2
Assignee
3
4
Credit Agreement
 
For an agreed consideration, [the][each] Assignor hereby irrevocably sells and assigns to [the Assignee][the respective Assignees], and [the][each] Assignee hereby irrevocably purchases and assumes from [the Assignor][the respective Assignors], subject to and in accordance with the Standard Terms and Conditions and the Credit Agreement, as of the Effective Date inserted by the Agent as contemplated below (i) all of [the Assignors][the respective Assignors] rights and obligations in [its capacity as a Lender or Issuing Bank][their respective capacities as Lenders] under the Credit Agreement and any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto to the extent related to the amount and percentage interest identified below of all of such outstanding rights and obligations of [the Assignor][the respective Assignors] under the respective facilities identified below (including without limitation any letters of credit, guarantees, and swingline loans included in such facilities), and (ii) to the extent permitted to be assigned under applicable law, all claims, suits, causes of action and any other right of [the Assignor (in its capacity as a Lender)][the respective Assignors (in their respective capacities as Lenders)] against any Person, whether known or unknown, arising under or in connection with the Credit Agreement, any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto or the loan transactions governed thereby or in any way based on or related to any of the foregoing, including, but not limited to, contract claims, tort claims, malpractice claims, statutory claims and all other claims at law or in equity related to the rights and obligations sold and assigned pursuant to clause (i) above (the rights and obligations sold and assigned by [the][any] Assignor to [the][any] Assignee pursuant to clauses (i) and (ii) above being referred to herein collectively as [the][an] ). Each such sale and assignment is without recourse to [the][any] Assignor and, except as expressly provided in this Assignment and Assumption, without representation or warranty by [the][any] Assignor.
Assigned Interest
 
 
 
1
For bracketed language here and elsewhere in this form relating to the Assignee(s), if the assignment is from a single Assignor, choose the first bracketed language. If the assignment is from multiple Assignors, choose the second bracketed language.
For bracketed language here and elsewhere in this form relating to the Assignee(s), if the assignment is to a single Assignee, choose the first bracketed language. If the assignment is to multiple Assignees, choose the second bracketed language.
2
3
Select as appropriate.
4
Include bracketed language if there are either multiple Assignors or multiple Assignees.
 
 
[Page break]
 
5
List each Assignor, as appropriate.
6
List each Assignee, as appropriate.
7
Fill in the appropriate terminology for the types of facilities under the Credit Agreement that are being assigned under this Assignment (e.g., Revolving Credit Commitment, Letter of Credit Commitment, etc.)
8
Amount to be adjusted by the counterparties to take into account any payments or prepayments made between the Trade Date and the Effective Date.
9
Set forth, to at least 9 decimals, as a percentage of the Commitment/Advances of all Lenders thereunder.
10
To be completed if the Assignor(s) and the Assignee(s) intend that the minimum assignment amount is to be determined as of the Trade Date.
 
 
Effective Date: _____________ ___, 20___ [TO BE INSERTED BY AGENT AND WHICH SHALL BE THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF RECORDATION OF TRANSFER IN THE REGISTER THEREFOR.]
The terms set forth in this Assignment and Assumption are hereby agreed to:
ASSIGNOR[S]
11
[NAME OF ASSIGNOR]
 
 
By:______________________________
Title:
 
[NAME OF ASSIGNOR]
 
 
By:______________________________
Title:
 
ASSIGNEE[S]
12
[NAME OF ASSIGNEE]
 
 
By:______________________________
Title:
 
 
[NAME OF ASSIGNEE]
 
 
By:______________________________
Title:
 
[Consented to and] Accepted:
13
[NAME OF ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT], as
Administrative Agent
By: _________________________________
Title:
[Consented to:]
14
 
11
Add additional signature blocks as needed. Include both Fund/Pension Plan and manager making the trade (if applicable).
12
Add additional signature blocks as needed. Include both Fund/Pension Plan and manager making the trade (if applicable).
13
To be added only if the consent of the Administrative Agent is required by the terms of the Credit Agreement.
14
To be added only if the consent of the Guarantor and/or other parties (e.g. Issuing Bank) is required by the terms of the Credit Agreement.
[NAME OF RELEVANT PARTY]
By: ________________________________
Title:
ANNEX 1
STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR
ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION
1. .
Representations and Warranties
1.1 . [The][Each] Assignor (a) represents and warrants that (i) it is the legal and beneficial owner of [the][the relevant] Assigned Interest, (ii) [the][such] Assigned Interest is free and clear of any lien, encumbrance or other adverse claim, (iii) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and (iv) it is [not] a Defaulting Lender; and (b) assumes no responsibility with respect to (i) any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with the Credit Agreement, (ii) the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of the Credit Agreement or any collateral thereunder, (iii) the financial condition of any Loan Party, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person obligated in respect of the Credit Agreement, or (iv) the performance or observance by the Guarantor, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person of any of their respective obligations under the Credit Agreement.
Assignor[s]
1.2. . [The][Each] Assignee (a) represents and warrants that (i) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and to become a Lender under the Credit Agreement, (ii) it meets all the requirements to be an assignee under Section 9.07(b)(iii), (v) and (vi) of the Credit Agreement (subject to such consents, if any, as may be required under Section 9.07(b)(iii) of the Credit Agreement), (iii) from and after the Effective Date, it shall be bound by the provisions of the Credit Agreement as a Lender thereunder and, to the extent of [the][the relevant] Assigned Interest, shall have the obligations of a Lender thereunder, (iv) it is sophisticated with respect to decisions to acquire assets of the type represented by the Assigned Interest and either it, or the Person exercising discretion in making its decision to acquire the Assigned Interest, is experienced in acquiring assets of such type, (v) it has received a copy of the Credit Agreement, and has received or has been accorded the opportunity to receive copies of the most recent financial statements delivered pursuant to Section 5.01(i) thereof, as applicable, and such other documents and information as it deems appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Assignment and Assumption and to purchase [the][such] Assigned Interest, (vi) it has, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Assignment and Assumption and to purchase [the][such] Assigned Interest, and (vii) if it is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction outside of the United States, attached to the Assignment and Assumption is any documentation required to be delivered by it pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement, duly completed and executed by [the][such] Assignee; and (b) agrees that (i) it will, independently and without reliance on the Administrative Agent, [the][any] Assignor or any other Lender, and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under the Credit Agreement, and (ii) it will perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations which by the terms of the Credit Agreement are required to be performed by it as a Lender.
Assignee[s]
2. . From and after the Effective Date, the Administrative Agent shall make all payments in respect of [the][each] Assigned Interest (including payments of principal, interest, fees and other amounts) to [the][the relevant] Assignee whether such amounts have accrued prior to, on or after the Effective Date. The Assignor[s] and the Assignee[s] shall make all appropriate adjustments in payments by the Administrative Agent for periods prior to the Effective Date or with respect to the making of this assignment directly between themselves. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Administrative Agent shall make all payments of interest, fees or other amounts paid or payable in kind from and after the Effective Date to [the][the relevant] Assignee.
Payments
 
3. . This Assignment and Assumption shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. This Assignment and Assumption may be executed in any number of counterparts, which together shall constitute one instrument. and Assumption and Assumption This Assignment and Assumption shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
General Provisions
Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Assignment
by telecopy shall be as effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Assignment
.
EXHIBIT D-1 - FORM OF
OPINION OF NEW YORK COUNSEL
FOR THE LOAN PARTIES
October 12, 2011
To each of the Lenders parties
to the Amended and Restated Five
Year Credit Agreement referred to below
 
Omnicom Group Inc., Omnicom Capital Inc. and Omnicom Finance plc
Ladies and Gentlemen:
This opinion is furnished to you pursuant to Section 3.01(h)(iv) of the Amended and Restated Five Year Credit Agreement, dated as of October 12, 2011 (the ), by and among Omnicom Capital Inc. () and Omnicom Finance plc (, and, together with OCI, the ), Omnicom Group Inc. (the ), the banks, financial institutions and other institutional lenders and initial issuing banks listed on the signature pages thereof, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, as joint lead arrangers and book managers, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Bank of America, N.A., as syndication agents, HSBC Bank USA, National Association, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association and Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria S.A., New York Branch, as documentation agents, and Citibank, N.A., as administrative agent (the ) for the Lenders. Capitalized terms used herein without definition are used as defined in the Credit Agreement.
Credit Agreement
OCI
OFP
Borrowers
Guarantor
Agent
We have acted as New York counsel for the Loan Parties in connection with the preparation, execution and delivery of the Credit Agreement.
In connection with this opinion, we have examined originals or copies (including conformed copies) of the following documents:
(1) The Credit Agreement.
(2) The documents furnished by the Loan Parties pursuant to Article III of the Credit Agreement (together with the Credit Agreement, the ).
Credit Documents
(3) The Certificate of Incorporation and all amendments thereto (the Charter) of each of OCI and the Guarantor (collectively, the ), as certified as of a recent date by a public official of the state of its incorporation.
US Loan Parties
(4) The by-laws and all amendments thereto (the ) of each US Loan Party, as certified to us by each US Loan Party.
By-laws
(5) A certificate of the Secretary of State of Connecticut, dated __________, 2011, attesting to the continued corporate existence of OCI in that State as of the date thereof.
(6) A certificate of the Secretary of State of New York, dated __________, 2011 attesting to the continued corporate existence of the Guarantor in that State as of the date thereof.
In addition, we have examined originals or copies, certified or otherwise identified to our satisfaction, of such records, instruments and other documents, and have made such other investigations, as we have deemed relevant and necessary as a basis for the opinions hereinafter set forth.
For the purposes hereof, we have assumed, with your permission and without independent verification of any kind: (a) that the signatures of persons signing all documents in connection with which this opinion is rendered are genuine; (b) the legal capacity of all natural persons; (c) that all documents submitted to us as originals or duplicate originals are authentic; and (d) that all documents submitted to us as copies, whether certified or not, conform to authentic original documents. As to questions of fact relevant to this opinion, we have assumed, without independent investigation or verification of any kind, the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the Loan Parties in the Credit Agreement and have relied upon certificates and oral or written statements and other information of public officials, and officers and representatives of the Loan Parties. For purposes of the opinion set forth in the paragraph numbered 1 below, we have relied solely upon copies of good standing certificates as certified by public officials as of the dates and in the jurisdictions listed on Annex I hereto.
In rendering the opinions expressed below, we have assumed, with your permission and without any independent investigation or verification of any kind, that: (i) OFP has been duly organized and is validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of incorporation and is duly qualified in each other jurisdiction in which the conduct of its business or the ownership of its property makes such qualification necessary; (ii) OFP has full power and authority to execute, deliver and perform the Credit Documents to which it is a party; (iii) the execution, delivery and performance of the Credit Documents by OFP have been duly authorized by all requisite corporate action on the part of OFP; (iv) the Credit Documents have been duly executed and delivered by OFP; and (v) the execution, delivery and performance of the Credit Documents by OFP do not and will not violate the Charter, By-laws or other organizational documents of OFP. We have further assumed, with your permission and without any independent investigation or verification of any kind, that the Credit Agreement constitutes the valid and legally binding obligation of each Person party thereto (other than the US Loan Parties and OFP), enforceable against such Person in accordance with its terms. Furthermore, in giving the opinions set forth in paragraphs numbered 4, 5 and 6 below, we express no opinion as to state securities or blue sky laws.
Based upon the foregoing, and subject to the limitations set forth herein, we are of the opinion that:
1. Each US Loan Party (i) is a validly existing corporation under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation listed on Annex I hereto and (ii) has the corporate power and authority to own its property and assets and to transact the business in which it is engaged.
2. Each US Loan Party has the corporate power to execute, deliver and perform the terms and provisions of the Credit Agreement and the Notes to be delivered by it and has taken all necessary corporate action to authorize the execution, delivery and performance of the Credit Agreement and the Notes to be delivered by it. Each US Loan Party has duly executed and delivered the Credit Agreement and the Notes delivered by it on the date hereof.
3. The Credit Agreement constitutes the legal, valid and binding obligation of each Loan Party enforceable against such Loan Party in accordance with its terms. Each Note to be delivered by a Loan Party, assuming due execution and delivery thereof by such Loan Party, will constitute the legal, valid and binding obligation of such Loan Party enforceable against such Loan Party in accordance with its terms.
4. Neither the execution and delivery, nor the performance, by any US Loan Party of the Credit Agreement or the Notes to be delivered by it, nor compliance by such US Loan Party with the terms and provisions thereof, (i) will contravene any provision of any law, statute, rule or regulation (including, without limitation, Regulation X of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System) of the United States of America or the State of New York applicable to such US Loan Party or (ii) will violate any provision of the Charter or By-laws of such US Loan Party.
5. Neither the execution and delivery, nor the performance, by OFP of the Credit Agreement or the Notes to be delivered by it, nor compliance by it with the terms and provisions thereof, will contravene any provision of any law, statute, rule or regulation (including, without limitation, Regulation X of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System) of the United States of America or the State of New York applicable to OFP.
6. No order, consent, approval, license, authorization or validation of, or filing, recording or registration with (except as have been obtained or made on or prior to the date hereof), or exemption by, any governmental or public body or authority of the United States of America, or the State of New York, applicable to any Loan Party is required to authorize, or is required in connection with, (i) the execution, delivery and performance by any Loan Party of the Credit Agreement and the Notes to be delivered by it or (ii) the enforceability of the Credit Agreement and the Notes to be delivered by it in accordance with their terms against such Loan Party.
7. The choice of New York law as the governing law of the Credit Agreement and the Notes is, under the laws of the State of New York, a valid choice of law.
8. The consent by each Loan Party in Section 9.12 of the Credit Agreement to the jurisdiction of courts sitting in the State of New York is a valid consent to the jurisdiction of such courts.
Our opinions are subject to the qualifications that:
A. The enforceability of the Credit Agreement and the Notes is subject to and may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, fraudulent conveyance, moratorium, or other similar laws relating to or affecting the rights of creditors generally (including such as may deny giving effect to waivers of debtors or guarantors rights), and the application of general principles of equity (regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law), including, without limitation, (i) the possible unavailability of specific performance, injunctive relief or any other equitable remedy and (ii) concepts of materiality, reasonableness, good faith and fair dealing. Accordingly, no opinion is given herein as to (A) the availability of the right to accelerate any obligation and certain remedies provided for in the Credit Agreement in the event of a nonmaterial default, or (B) the enforceability of any provision of the Credit Agreement relating to cumulation of remedies or waiving the remedy of specific performance, or the waiver of debtors rights.
B. We express no opinion as to the enforceability of any contractual provision in the Credit Agreement as to waiver of any procedural right, including, without limitation, (i) the first sentence of Section 9.12(a) of the Credit Agreement insofar as such sentence relates to the subject matter jurisdiction of a federal court of the United States of America sitting in New York City to adjudicate any controversy related to any of the Credit Documents, and (ii) the waiver of inconvenient forum set forth in Section 9.12(b) of the Credit Agreement with respect to proceedings in a federal court of the United States of America sitting in New York City.
C. We express no opinion as to the enforceability of any contractual provision in the Credit Documents relating to indemnification, including, without limitation, with respect to the enforceability of Section 9.04 of the Credit Agreement, to the extent that these may be limited (i) in the case of litigation against any Loan Party which is decided adversely to the person claiming indemnification or in a case involving a claim of indemnification for attorneys fees, (ii) by laws rendering unenforceable indemnification contrary to federal or state securities laws and the public policy underlying such laws, or (iii) by laws limiting the enforceability of provisions exculpating or exempting a party, or requiring indemnification of a party, for liability for its own action or inaction, to the extent the action or inaction involves gross negligence, recklessness, willful misconduct or unlawful conduct.
D. Furthermore, no opinion is given herein as to:
(i) Section 7.02 of the Credit Agreement, to the extent that it relates to action contemplated by Section 7.02(b) of the Credit Agreement taken without the Guarantors consent, which may not be enforceable to the extent that the Guaranteed Obligations are materially altered; or
(ii) the enforceability of the provisions of Section 9.11 of the Credit Agreement (A) to the extent that a judgment not in (1) Dollars is obtained in respect of the Credit Agreement in a jurisdiction other than the United States of America or (2) Committed Currencies is obtained in respect of the Credit Agreement in a jurisdiction other than a member-state of the European Union and the respective Loan Party pays such judgment or (B) insofar as those provisions contemplate an alternative or additional cause of action for a claim that may have merged with claims covered by an earlier judgment; or
(iii) Section 7.02(h) of the Credit Agreement, to the extent it relates to any waiver of an applicable statute of limitations; or
(iv) the enforceability of the right of setoff provided for in Section 9.05 of the Credit Agreement (A) in respect of an interest under the Credit Agreement purchased by a Lender pursuant to Section 2.15 or 9.07 of the Credit Agreement, to the extent the relevant purchase does not give rise to a direct obligation of any Borrower to such Lender, or (B) insofar as that right relates to setoff of unmatured obligations under the Credit Agreement or of obligations owed to any Loan Party by an Affiliate of a Lender or by an Affiliate of the Agent; or
(v) the enforceability of Section 2.06 or 9.14 of the Credit Agreement to the extent that it constitutes a general disclaimer of the obligations or liabilities of an Issuing Bank.
We are members of the Bar of the State of New York and express no opinion as to the laws of any jurisdiction other than those of the laws of the State of New York, the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware and the federal laws of the United States of America. Our opinions set forth in paragraph numbers 1, 2 and 4(ii) above, as they apply to OCI, are based on our review of the Connecticut Business Corporation Act as reported by 33 Conn. Gen. Stat. Ann.  33-600 et seq. to be in effect on the date of this opinion letter.
This opinion is rendered solely to you by us as New York counsel for the Loan Parties in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Credit Agreement and the Notes. Each Lender (and its successors and permitted assigns) may rely upon this opinion in connection with those transactions. This opinion may not be relied upon in any other manner or for any other purpose, or furnished or relied upon by any other person, without our prior written consent. The information set forth herein is as of the date of this letter, and we disclaim any undertaking to advise you of changes which thereafter may be brought to our attention.
Very truly yours,
 
 
ANNEX I
 
 
EXHIBIT D-2 - FORM OF
OPINION OF ENGLISH
COUNSEL FOR OFP
      October 2011
Dear Sirs
Omnicom Finance plc
We have acted as special English lawyers for (), in connection with
Omnicom Finance plc, a public limited company organized and existing under the laws of England and Wales
OFP
its authorisation of the execution and delivery of the following documents (together, the ): 
Credit Documents
We have been asked by OFP to give you this opinion and we have taken instructions in this regard solely from OFP. You should be aware that our sole involvement with this transaction has been in giving this opinion and we have not been involved in the negotiation of the or in any other aspect of the transaction. 
for the purposes of Section 3.01(h)(iv) of the Credit Agreement
Credit Documents
Credit
Terms defined in the
Agreement have the same meanings when used in this opinion. 
 
This opinion is limited to English law as applied by the English courts as at the date of this letter and is given on the basis that it will be governed by and construed in accordance with English law. We have made no investigation of the laws of any jurisdiction other than those of England and we do not express or imply any opinion as to the laws of any jurisdiction other than those of England. The opinions given in this letter are strictly limited to the matters stated in paragraph 6 (Opinion) and do not extend to any other matters or any matters of fact. 
For the purpose of this opinion we have examined the following documents: 
For the purpose of giving this opinion, we have: 
Except for the documents listed in paragraph 3 above and the matters referred to in this paragraph 4, we have not examined any contracts or other documents entered into by or affecting any party to the nor any corporate records of OFP and we have not made any other enquiries or searches concerning OFP. 
Credit Documents
In examining the documents referred to in paragraph 3 above, in making the enquiries referred to in paragraph 4 above and in giving this opinion we have assumed without further enquiry: 
 
its performance will not be illegal or contrary to public policy by virtue of the laws of that jurisdiction; 
Based upon and subject to the foregoing, and subject to the qualifications and reservations mentioned below and to any matters not disclosed to us, we are of the following opinion. 
performance by OFP of any Credit Document to which OFP is expressed to be a party, (ii) the borrowing by OFP under the Credit Agreement or (iii) the enforceability of any such Credit Document against OFP. 
For a defendant to such a claim to have a good defence to a claim or counterclaim to enforce such a judgment, it would be necessary for him to prove that:- 
Except that section 32 does not apply where the agreement under which the dispute in question was to be settled is illegal, void, unenforceable or incapable of being performed for reasons not attributable to the fault of the party bringing the action. 
The question of whether enforcement of a judgment is contrary to English public policy (see (2) above) depends on the circumstances of the transaction as a whole and the subsequent conduct of the litigation in the United States and English proceedings. Solely on the basis of our examination of the documents referred to in paragraphs 3.1 to 3.3 (inclusive) above, we are not aware of any reason why enforcement of a judgment to pay a sum of money due under the Credit Agreement would be contrary to English public policy as at the date of this letter. 
Our opinion is subject to the following qualifications and reservations. 
that would be violated by the enforcement of the Credit Documents in accordance with their respective terms.
 
This opinion may be relied on solely by the addressees and may not be regarded as addressed to or capable of being relied on by any other person (save the addressees successors and assigns) without our prior written consent. It is strictly limited to the matters stated herein and does not extend to, and is not to be read as extending by implication to, any other matter in connection with the .
Credit Documents
Yours faithfully
 
 
 
 
 
Macfarlanes LLP


