FILE:NBL/NBL-8K-20041109194153.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Table of Contents
Item 8.01. Other Events.
It is with deep sadness that the Board of Directors of Noble Energy, Inc, announces the death of director Dale P. Jones. Mr. Jones served as a director of the Company since 1998. Please see the press release attached as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
(November 9, 2004)  Noble Energy, Inc. (NYSE: ) announced today that Dale P. Jones, a director of the company, passed away on November 6, 2004. Mr. Jones served as a member of Noble Energy's board of directors since 1998.
HOUSTON
NBL
Charles D. Davidson, the company's Chairman, President and CEO, said, "It is with great sadness that we announce the sudden passing of Dale Jones. He was an outstanding director of the company and provided inspiration to all of us. He will be missed not only as a business colleague, but also as a friend. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife, Anita, as well as to the entire Jones family."
Noble Energy is one of the nation's leading independent energy companies and operates throughout major basins in the United States including the Gulf of Mexico, as well as internationally, in Argentina, China, Ecuador, Equatorial Guinea, the Mediterranean Sea and the North Sea. Noble Energy markets natural gas and crude oil through its subsidiary, Noble Energy Marketing, Inc.
This news release may include projections and other "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Any such projections or statements reflect Noble Energy's current views about future events and financial performance. No assurances can be given that such events or performance will occur as projected and actual results may differ materially from those projected. Important factors that could cause the actual results to differ materially from those projected include, without limitation, the volatility in commodity prices for oil and gas, the presence or recoverability of estimated reserves, the ability to replace reserves, environmental risks, drilling and operating risks, exploration and development risks, competition, government regulation or other action, the ability of management to execute its plans to meet its goals and other risks inherent in Noble Energy's business that are detailed in its Securities and Exchange Commission filings.


