FILE:NBL/NBL-8K-20050208172727.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
x
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
  
Item 8.01.
Other Events.
     On February 8, 2005 Noble Energy, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing the early termination of the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, applicable to the Company's proposed merger with Patina Oil & Gas Corporation (NYSE: POG). A copy of the press release issued by the Company is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
  
Item 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
(February 8, 2005)  Noble Energy, Inc. (NYSE: NBL) today announced that on February 4, 2005, the Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice and the Federal Trade Commission granted early termination of the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, applicable to the Company's proposed merger with Patina Oil & Gas Corporation (NYSE: POG). The closing of the transaction remains subject to other customary conditions, including the approval of both Noble Energy's and Patina's stockholders. The transaction is expected to close during the early second quarter of 2005.
HOUSTON
Noble Energy is one of the nation's leading independent energy companies and operates throughout major basins in the United States including the Gulf of Mexico, as well as internationally, in Argentina, China, Ecuador, Equatorial Guinea, the Mediterranean Sea and the North Sea. Noble Energy markets natural gas and crude oil through its subsidiary, Noble Energy Marketing, Inc.
This news release may include projections and other "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Any such projections or statements reflect Noble Energy's current views about future events and financial performance. No assurances can be given that such events or performance will occur as projected and actual results may differ materially from those projected. Important factors that could cause the actual results to differ materially from those projected include, without limitation, the volatility in commodity prices for oil and gas, the presence or recoverability of estimated reserves, the ability to replace reserves, environmental risks, drilling and operating risks, exploration and development risks, competition, government regulation or other action, the ability of management to execute its plans to meet its goals and other risks inherent in Noble Energy's business that are detailed in its Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") filings.
In connection with the proposed merger (the "Merger"), Noble Energy and Patina filed with the SEC on January 25, 2005, a joint proxy statement/prospectus on Form S-4 that contains important information about the Merger. These materials are not yet final and will be amended. Investors and security holders of Noble Energy and Patina are urged to read the joint proxy statement/prospectus filed, and any other relevant materials filed by Noble Energy or Patina because they contain, or will contain, important information about Noble Energy, Patina and the Merger. The preliminary materials filed on January 25, 2005, the definitive versions of these materials and other relevant materials (when they become available) and any other documents filed by Noble Energy or Patina with the SEC, may be obtained for free at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. In addition, the documents filed with the SEC by Noble Energy may be obtained free of charge from Noble Energy's website at www.nobleenergyinc.com. The documents filed with the SEC by Patina may be obtained free of charge from Patina's website at www.patinaoil.com.
 
Noble Energy, Patina and their respective executive officers and directors may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from the stockholders of Noble Energy and Patina in favor of the Merger. Information about the executive officers and directors of Noble Energy and their ownership of Noble Energy common stock is set forth in the proxy statement for Noble Energy's 2004 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which was filed with the SEC on March 24, 2004. Information about the executive officers and directors of Patina and their ownership of Patina common stock is set forth in the proxy statement for Patina's 2004 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which was filed with the SEC in April 2004. Investors and security holders may obtain more detailed information regarding the direct and indirect interests of Noble Energy, Patina and their respective executive officers and directors in the Merger by reading the joint proxy statement/prospectus regarding the Merger, which is included in the Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed by Noble Energy with the SEC on January 25, 2005.


