FILE:NBL/NBL-8K-20051117171915.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
     On November 11, 2005, Noble Energy, Inc. (the "Company") awarded 4,800 restricted shares of the Company's common stock and options to purchase 11,200 shares of the Company's common stock to William T. Van Kleef, who was appointed to the Company's board of directors as described in Item 5.02 of this Current Report. The restricted shares and options were awarded to Mr. Van Kleef pursuant to the 2005 Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors of Noble Energy, Inc., which is filed as Exhibit A to the Company's Definitive Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A, as filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on March 18, 2005. The specific terms of the restricted stock award are governed by a Restricted Stock Agreement dated November 11, 2005 between Mr. Van Kleef and the Company, the form of which is filed as Exhibit 10.4 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, as filed with the SEC on August 4, 2005. The specific terms of the stock option grant are governed by a Stock Option Agreement dated November 11, 2005 between Mr. Van Kleef and the Company, the form of which is filed as Exhibit 10.3 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, as filed with the SEC on August 4, 2005.
     Effective November 11, 2005, the Company entered into its customary form of indemnity agreement with Mr. Van Kleef. The form of the indemnity agreement entered into between the Company and Mr. Van Kleef is filed as Exhibit 10.18 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995.
     Effective November 11, 2005, the Company increased the size of its board of directors by one member and appointed William T. Van Kleef to fill the vacancy created by such increase. At this time, Mr. Van Kleef has not been appointed to a committee of the Company's board of directors. The Company will file an amendment to this Current Report on Form 8-K to report any such appointment within four business days after the information is determined or becomes available. A copy of the press release announcing the appointment of Mr. Van Kleef, which is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1, is incorporated into this Item 5.02 by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
(November 11, 2005)  Noble Energy, Inc. (NYSE: ) announced today that its Board of Directors elected William T. Van Kleef to its board, increasing the number of directors to eight.
HOUSTON
NBL
Mr. Van Kleef served in executive management positions at Tesoro Corporation from 1993 to 2005, most recently as Tesoro's Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer. During his tenure at Tesoro, Mr. Van Kleef held various positions, including President, Tesoro Refining and Marketing, and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Before joining Tesoro, Mr. Van Kleef, a Certified Public Accountant, served in various financial and accounting positions with Damson Oil from 1982 to 1991, most recently as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Noble Energy's Chairman, President, and CEO, Charles D. Davidson, commented: "On behalf of Noble Energy's board, we are all pleased to have an executive with Mr. Van Kleef's proven abilities join our team. Bill's broad knowledge of all aspects of the energy industry will be invaluable to our company's future growth and success."
Noble Energy is one of the nation's leading independent energy companies and operates throughout major basins in the United States including the Gulf of Mexico, as well as the recently added Patina Oil & Gas properties located primarily in Colorado's Wattenberg Field, the Mid-continent region of western Oklahoma and the Texas Panhandle, and the San Juan Basin in New Mexico. In addition, Noble Energy operates internationally in Argentina, China, Ecuador, Equatorial Guinea, the Mediterranean Sea and the North Sea. Noble Energy markets natural gas and crude oil through its subsidiary, Noble Energy Marketing, Inc. Visit Noble Energy online at .
www.nobleenergyinc.com


