FILE:NBL/NBL-8K-20050429121717.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
     On April 26, 2005, the stockholders of Noble Energy, Inc. (the "Company") approved the 2005 Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors of Noble Energy, Inc. (the "2005 Plan"). The purposes of the 2005 Plan are to provide each non-employee director of the Company with an added incentive to continue in the service of the Company and a more direct interest in the future success of the operations of the Company by granting to such directors options to purchase shares of the Company's common stock and awards of restricted shares of common stock.
     The following is a summary of the principal features of the 2005 Plan. The description set forth herein of the material terms of the 2005 Plan is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the 2005 Plan, which is filed with this report as Exhibit 10.1. Capitalized terms not otherwise defined below have the meanings ascribed to them in the 2005 Plan.
General
     The 2005 Plan authorizes the issuance of up to 400,000 shares of common stock. Any shares of common stock allocable to the unexercised portion of an option that expires or terminates will again be available for the purposes of the 2005 Plan. The 2005 Plan contains provisions for the adjustment of the number of shares of common stock to be granted or available for grant under options and restricted stock awards, and for the adjustment of the shares subject to unexercised options, in the event of common stock splits or combinations, dividends payable in common stock or the occurrence of certain other events.
     The 2005 Plan is administered by the Board of Directors and, subject to certain minimum and maximum annual grant limitations, is designed to allow the Board to adjust the value and the form of the grants to be made under the 2005 Plan from time to time in order to permit the Company to respond to market conditions and remain competitive in its non-employee director compensation practices. Under the 2005 Plan, certain options and restricted stock awards are granted automatically to incumbent and new non-employee directors. In addition, the Board of Directors has the discretion to grant additional options and restricted stock awards to the non-employee directors and to determine the restrictions, terms and conditions applicable to such grants.
Stock Options
     Each new non-employee director will be granted an option to purchase 5,600 shares of common stock on the date of such non-employee director's election to the Board of Directors as a director. On each February 1 during the term of the 2005 Plan, each incumbent non-employee director serving the Company on such date automatically will be granted an option to purchase 1,400 shares of common stock. In addition to the foregoing automatic grants of options, at any time the Board of Directors in its discretion may grant an additional option to any non-employee director who previously has received or concurrently is receiving a February 1 automatic option grant; provided, however, that the aggregate number of shares of common stock that may be subject to options granted by the Board of Directors in its discretion to a particular non-employee director during any calendar year, when added to the number of shares of common stock that are subject to the option automatically granted to such non-employee director on February 1 of that year, cannot exceed 5,600.
     The price at which each share of common stock covered by an option may be purchased is the fair market value of such share on the date of the grant of such option. Each option will be exercisable from time to time over the period of time commencing one (1) year from the date of the grant of such option and ending (i) in the case of an option automatically granted under the 2005 Plan, upon the expiration of ten (10) years from the date of such grant, or (ii) in the case of an option granted by the Board of
Table of Contents
Directors in its discretion, upon the expiration date specified for such option by the Board of Directors at the time of the grant of such option. Each option granted to a non-employee director under the 2005 Plan will, however, become exercisable in full (i) upon the death of such non-employee director, (ii) upon the mandatory retirement of such non-employee director as a regular director because of age in accordance with Article III of the By-laws of the Company, or (iii) in the event of a Change in Control as defined in the 2005 Plan.
     If a non-employee director's service as a director terminates within the exercise period applicable to an option granted to such non-employee director, the non-employee director (or if such termination of service is by reason of death, the executor or administrator of the non-employee director's estate or person who has acquired the option by bequest, inheritance or permitted transfer) may exercise such option, to the extent such option was exercisable at the time of such termination of service, for a period ending on the earlier of (i) the expiration of five (5) years from such termination of service, or (ii) the expiration of the exercise period applicable to such option.
     The options granted under the 2005 Plan are transferable only by will or the laws of descent and distribution or to a permitted transferee (as defined below). An option may be transferred to a permitted transferee if (i) there is no consideration for the transfer, (ii) the original optionee remains liable for all withholding obligations associated with the exercise of the option, (iii) the original optionee notifies the Company of the transfer and provides certain information with respect to the permitted transferee, and (iv) the Board of Directors approves the form of the transfer documents effectuating the transfer. The term "permitted transferee" means, with respect to an original optionee, (i) any child, stepchild, grandchild, parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse, former spouse, sibling, niece, nephew, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law or sister-in-law of the original optionee, including adoptive relationships, (ii) any person sharing the original optionee's household (other than a tenant or an employee), (iii) a trust in which the persons described in clauses (i) and (ii) above have more than fifty percent of the beneficial interest, (iv) a foundation in which the original optionee and/or persons described in clauses (i) and (ii) above control the management of assets, and (v) any other entity in which the original optionee and/or persons described in clauses (i) and (ii) above own more than fifty percent of the voting interests.
Restricted Stock Awards
     Each new non-employee director will be granted 2,400 restricted shares of common stock on the date of such non-employee director's election to the Board of Directors as a director. On each February 1 during the term of the 2005 Plan, each incumbent non-employee director serving the Company on such date automatically will be granted 600 restricted shares of common stock. In addition to the foregoing automatic grants of restricted shares of common stock, at any time the Board of Directors in its discretion may grant additional restricted shares of common stock to any non-employee director who previously has received or concurrently is receiving a February 1 automatic grant of restricted shares of common stock; provided, however, that the aggregate number of restricted shares of common stock that may be granted by the Board of Directors in its discretion to a particular non-employee director during any calendar year, when added to the number of shares of common stock that are subject to the grant of restricted shares of common stock automatically granted to such non-employee director on February 1 of that year, cannot exceed 2,400. Each grant of restricted shares of common stock under the 2005 Plan will be restricted for a period of at least one year from the date of such grant, and may not be sold, assigned, transferred, discounted, exchanged, pledged or otherwise encumbered or disposed of until all of the restrictions, terms and conditions applicable to such restricted shares have been satisfied. During the restricted period, the non-employee director to whom the restricted shares of common stock have been granted will be the record owner of such shares and will have all of the rights of a stockholder with respect to such shares, including the right to vote and the right to receive dividends or other distributions made with or paid with respect to such shares.
Table of Contents
     Subject to the express provisions of the 2005 Plan, the Board of Directors in its discretion will determine the restrictions, terms and conditions that will apply to each grant of restricted shares of common stock granted pursuant to the 2005 Plan; provided, however, that the restrictions applicable to each such grant will terminate in the event of a Change in Control or if such non-employee director (i) dies or becomes disabled while a director of the Company, or (ii) retires as a regular director of the Company because of age in accordance with the mandatory retirement provisions of Article III of the By-laws of the Company.
Amendment of the Plan
     The Board of Directors may at any time and from time to time amend, modify or suspend the 2005 Plan, provided that no such amendment, modification or suspension shall (1) adversely affect an option or restricted stock award theretofore granted to a non-employee director, or deprive a non-employee director of any shares of common stock such non-employee director has acquired or may acquire under such an option or restricted stock award, without his or her consent, or (2) be made without the approval of the stockholders of the Company if such amendment, modification or suspension would (i) expand the types of grants that may be made under the 2005 Plan, (ii) increase the total number of shares of common stock that may be granted under the 2005 Plan or decrease the exercise price of Options granted or to be granted under the 2005 Plan (other than in accordance with the 2005 Plan's antidilution provisions), (iii) materially expand the class of persons eligible to be granted options or restricted stock awards under the 2005 Plan, (iv) materially increase the benefits accruing to non-employee directors under the 2005 Plan, (v) extend the term of the 2005 Plan or the exercise period applicable to an option granted thereunder, or (vi) constitute a material revision of the 2005 Plan requiring stockholder approval pursuant to Section 303A.08 of the NYSE Listed Company Manual or applicable law.
Termination
     Unless previously terminated by the Board of Directors in its discretion, the 2005 Plan will terminate at the close of business on March 31, 2015, after which time no further grants may be made under the 2005 Plan.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (c)      Exhibits. The following exhibits are furnished as part of this current Report on Form 8-K:
               10.1     2005 Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors of Noble Energy, Inc.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this current Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents
          
Item
Exhibit
10.1           2005 Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors of Noble Energy, Inc.

 
      A.     Effective as of April 26, 2005, the Board of Directors of Noble Energy, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), hereby adopts this 2005 Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors of Noble Energy, Inc. (the "Plan").
      B.     The purposes of the Plan are to provide to each of the directors of the Company who is not an employee of the Company or one of its affiliates an added incentive to continue in the service of the Company and a more direct interest in the future success of the operations of the Company by granting to such directors (i) options to purchase shares of the Company's common stock, par value $3.33/ per share (the "Common Stock"), and (ii) awards of restricted shares of Common Stock, in each case subject to the terms and conditions set forth below.
1
3
      1.01     Unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, when used in this Plan:
Definitions.
 
      1.02     The titles to the Articles and the headings of the Sections in this Plan are placed herein for convenience of reference only, and shall not be deemed to be material or relevant to the construction or interpretation of the Plan. Terms in masculine, feminine and neuter genders shall be construed to include any other gender, and words in the singular form shall be construed to include the plural form, and vice versa, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
Construction.
      The Plan shall be administered by the Board of Directors. Subject to the express provisions of the Plan, the Board of Directors shall have the authority, in its discretion, to (a) determine which Non-Employee Directors will be granted Options and Stock Awards, (b) determine the number of shares of Common Stock to be made subject to each Option or Stock Award, (c) determine the exercise price for the shares of Common Stock to be made subject to each Option (which exercise price per share shall not be less than the Fair Market Value of such share on the date such Option is granted), (d) determine the period within which each Option may be exercised (which exercise period shall not exceed ten years from the date such Option is granted), (e) determine the restrictions (including forfeiture restrictions), terms and conditions to be applicable to each Option or Stock Award, (f) construe and interpret the provisions of the Plan and any agreement evidencing an Option or Stock Award, (g) amend the agreement evidencing the grant of any Option or Stock Award to accelerate its exercisability or the lapse of its restrictions or otherwise modify the restrictions, terms and conditions applicable to such Option or Stock Award, and (h) adopt such rules and procedures, appoint such agents and take all such other action as the Board of Directors may deem to be necessary or appropriate for the proper administration of the Plan. The decisions of the Board of Directors with respect to the Plan and any Option or Stock Award shall be final and binding upon the Company, the Holders and Awardees, and all other persons having or claiming to have an interest in the Plan or an Option or Stock Award granted pursuant to the Plan. No member of the Board of Directors shall incur any liability by reason of any action taken or omitted in good faith with respect to the Plan or an Option or Stock Award granted pursuant to the Plan.
      3.01     Each new Non-Employee Director shall be granted an option to purchase 5,600 shares of Common Stock on the date of his or her election to the Board of Directors as a director. On each February 1 after the Effective Date, each incumbent Non-Employee Director shall be granted an option
Grant of Options.
 
to purchase 1,400 shares of Common Stock. In addition to the foregoing automatic grants of Options, at any time and from time to time the Board of Directors in its discretion may grant an additional Option to any Non-Employee Director who previously has received or concurrently is receiving a February 1 automatic Option grant; provided, however, that the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock that may be subject to Options granted pursuant to this sentence to a particular Non-Employee Director during any calendar year, when added to the number of shares of Common Stock that are subject to the Option automatically granted to such Non-Employee Director on February 1 of that year, shall not exceed 5,600. Each Option granted pursuant to the Plan shall be subject to the restrictions, terms and conditions set forth in Section 3.02 below, and to such other restrictions (including forfeiture restrictions), terms and conditions not inconsistent therewith or with the other provisions of the Plan as shall be determined by the Board of Directors in its discretion at the time of the granting of such Option.
      3.02     The price at which each share of Common Stock that is subject to an Option may be purchased shall be the Fair Market Value of such share on the date of the grant of such Option. Each Option shall be exercisable from time to time over the period of time commencing one year from the date of the grant of such Option and ending, unless terminated earlier pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.02(a) hereof, (a) in the case of an Option automatically granted under the Plan, upon the expiration of ten years from the date of such grant, or (b) in the case of an Option granted by the Board of Directors in its discretion, upon the expiration date specified for such Option by the Board of Directors at the time of the grant of such Option; provided, however, that each Option granted to a Holder shall become exercisable in full upon the death of the Holder or upon the mandatory retirement of the Holder as a regular director because of age in accordance with Article III of the By-laws of the Company. Each Option granted under the Plan shall be evidenced by a written agreement entered into by the Company and the Non-Employee Director to whom the Option is granted, which agreement shall be in such form as the Board of Directors may prescribe, and shall include, incorporate or conform to the following terms and conditions, and such other terms and conditions not inconsistent therewith or with the other provisions of the Plan, as the Board of Directors may deem to be appropriate:
Option Terms and Agreement.
 
      4.01     Each new Non-Employee Director shall be granted a Stock Award of 2,400 shares of Common Stock on the date of his or her election to the Board of Directors as a director. On each February 1 after the Effective Date, each incumbent Non-Employee Director shall be granted a Stock Award of 600 shares of Common Stock. In addition to the foregoing automatic grants of Stock Awards, at any time and from time to time the Board of Directors may grant an additional Stock Award to any Non-Employee Director who previously has received or concurrently is receiving a February 1 automatic Stock Award grant; provided, however, that the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock that may be subject to Stock Awards granted pursuant to this sentence to a particular Non-Employee Director during any calendar year, when added to the number of shares of Common Stock that are subject to the Stock Award automatically granted to such Non-Employee Director on February 1 of that year, shall not exceed 2,400.
Grant of Stock Awards.
 
Each Stock Award granted pursuant to the Plan shall be subject to the restrictions, terms and conditions set forth in Sections 4.02 and 4.03 below, and to such other restrictions (including forfeiture restrictions), terms and conditions not inconsistent therewith or with the other provisions of the Plan as shall be determined by the Board of Directors in its discretion at the time of the granting of such Stock Award.
      4.02      The shares of Common Stock granted under each Stock Award shall be restricted for a period of at least one year from the date of the grant of such Stock Award. No share of Common Stock granted under a Stock Award may be sold, assigned, transferred, discounted, exchanged, pledged or otherwise encumbered or disposed of until all of the restrictions, terms and conditions applicable to such shares have been satisfied. Each Stock Award granted under the Plan shall be evidenced by a written agreement entered into by the Company and the Non-Employee Director to whom the Stock Award is granted, which agreement shall be in such form as the Board of Directors may prescribe, and shall include, incorporate or conform to the following terms and conditions, and such other terms and conditions not inconsistent therewith or with the other provisions of the Plan, as the Board of Directors may deem to be appropriate:
Stock Award Restrictions.
      4.03     An Awardee shall be the record owner of the shares of Common Stock granted under a Stock Award and shall have all the rights of a stockholder with respect to such shares, including the right to vote and the right to receive dividends or other distributions made or paid with respect to such shares. During the Restricted Period applicable to the shares of Common Stock granted under a Stock Award, the certificate or certificates representing such shares shall bear a legend similar to the following:
Additional Conditions.
      In order to enforce the restrictions, terms and conditions that are applicable to the shares of Common Stock granted under a Stock Award, the Board of Directors may require the Awardee thereof, upon the receipt of a certificate or certificates representing such shares, or at any time thereafter during the Restricted Period applicable to such Stock Award, to deposit such certificate or certificates, together with stock powers and other instruments of transfer, appropriately endorsed in blank, with the Company or an escrow agent designated by the Company under an escrow agreement in such form as by the Board of Directors shall prescribe. After the satisfaction of the restrictions, terms and conditions applicable to such shares, a new certificate, without the legend set forth above, for the number of shares that are no longer subject to such restrictions, terms and conditions shall be delivered to the Awardee. Any provision of this Plan to the contrary notwithstanding, the Board of Directors shall have the authority in its discretion to cancel at any time all or
 
any portion of any outstanding restrictions, terms and conditions applicable to all or any portion of the shares of Common Stock granted under a Stock Award.
      5.01     The total number of shares of Common Stock as to which Options and Stock Awards may be granted pursuant to the Plan shall be 400,000, in the aggregate, except as such number of shares shall be adjusted from and after the Effective Date in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.02 hereof. If any outstanding Option under the Plan shall expire or be terminated for any reason before the end of the exercise period applicable to such Option, the shares of Common Stock allocable to the unexercised portion of such Option may again be subject to the Plan. The Company shall, at all times during the existence of outstanding Options, retain as authorized and unissued shares of Common Stock at least the number of shares from time to time subject to the outstanding Options or otherwise assure itself of its ability to perform its obligation under the Plan.
Common Stock.
      5.02     In the event the Company shall effect a split of the outstanding shares of Common Stock or pay a dividend in shares of Common Stock, or in the event the outstanding shares of Common Stock shall be combined into a smaller number of shares, (a) the number of shares of Common Stock that will be subject to Options or Stock Awards granted automatically pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.01 or 4.01 hereof, (b) the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock that may be subject to Options or Stock Awards granted automatically and by the Board of Directors in its discretion to a particular Non-Employee Director during any calendar year pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.01 or 4.01 hereof, and (c) the maximum number of shares of Common Stock as to which Options and Stock Awards may be granted under the Plan as provided in Section 5.01 hereof, shall be increased or decreased proportionately. In the event that before delivery by the Company of all of the shares of Common Stock in respect of which any Option has been granted under the Plan, the Company shall have effected such a split, dividend or combination, the shares still subject to the Option shall be increased or decreased proportionately and the purchase price per share shall be increased or decreased proportionately so that the aggregate purchase price for all of the then optioned shares shall remain the same as immediately prior to such split, dividend or combination. In the event of a reclassification of the shares of Common Stock not covered by the foregoing, or in the event of a liquidation or reorganization, including a merger, consolidation or sale of assets, the Board of Directors of the Company shall make such adjustments, if any, as it may deem appropriate in the number, purchase price and kind of shares covered by the unexercised portions of Options theretofore granted under the Plan. The provisions of this Section 5.02 shall only be applicable if, and only to the extent that, the application thereof does not conflict with any valid governmental statute, regulation or rule.
Adjustments Upon Changes in Common Stock.
      6.01     If a Change in Control occurs while an Option is outstanding, such Option shall become exercisable in full. If a Change in Control occurs during the Restricted Period applicable to a Stock Award, all of the restrictions, terms and conditions applicable to the shares of Common Stock granted under such Stock Award shall terminate, and such shares shall be delivered to the Awardee of such Stock Award free of such restrictions, terms and conditions. For the purposes of this Plan, a "Change in Control" shall be deemed to have occurred if:
Change in Control.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a "Change in Control" of the Company shall not be deemed to have occurred for purposes of subparagraph (d) of this Section 6.01 solely as the result of an acquisition of securities by the Company which, by reducing the number of shares of Common Stock or other Voting Securities of the Company outstanding, increases (i) the proportionate number of shares of Common Stock beneficially owned by any person to twenty-five percent (25%) or more of the shares of Common Stock then outstanding or (ii) the proportionate voting power represented by the Voting Securities of the Company beneficially owned by any person to twenty-five percent (25%) or more of the combined voting power of all then outstanding Voting Securities; provided, however, that if any person referred to in clause (i) or (ii) of this sentence shall thereafter become the beneficial owner of any additional shares of Common Stock or other Voting Securities of the Company (other than a result of a stock split, stock dividend or similar transaction), then a Change in Control of the Company shall be deemed to have occurred for purposes of subparagraph (d) of this Section 6.01.
      6.02     The Board of Directors shall have the right and power to terminate this Plan at any time. If not sooner terminated by such action of the Board of Directors, the Plan shall terminate at the close of business on March 31, 2015. No Option or Stock Award shall be granted under the Plan after its termination. Except as otherwise provided in Section 6.05 hereof, after the termination of the Plan an Option or Stock Award that has been granted prior to such termination shall remain in effect in accordance with the provisions of the agreement evidencing such Option or Stock Award.
Termination of the Plan.
      6.03     Subject to the limitations set forth in this Section 6.03, the Board of Directors may at any time and from time to time amend, modify or suspend the Plan. No such amendment, modification or suspension shall (a) adversely affect an Option or Stock Award theretofore granted to any Holder or Awardee, or deprive any Holder or Awardee of any shares of Common Stock he or she has acquired or may acquire under such an Option or Stock Award, without his or her written consent, or (b) be made without the approval of the stockholders of the Company if such amendment, modification or suspension would (i) expand the types of grants or awards that may be made under the Plan, (ii) increase the total number of shares of Common Stock that may be granted under the Plan or decrease the exercise price of Options granted or to be granted under the Plan (other than as provided in Section 5.02 hereof), (iii) materially expand the class of persons eligible to be granted Options or Stock Awards under the Plan,
Amendment of the Plan.
 
(iv) materially increase the benefits accruing to Holders or Awardees under the Plan, (v) extend the term of the Plan or the exercise period applicable to an Option, or (vi) constitute a material revision of the Plan requiring stockholder approval under the New York Stock Exchange Corporate Governance Listing Standards or applicable law.
      6.04     Proceeds from the sales of Common Stock pursuant to the exercise of Options shall constitute general funds of the Company.
Treatment of Proceeds.
      6.05     This Plan shall be submitted for approval by the stockholders of the Company at their 2005 regular meeting. The Plan shall become effective on the date the Plan is approved at such meeting. Any provision of the Plan to the contrary notwithstanding, no Option or Stock Award shall be granted prior to obtaining such stockholder approval. If the Plan is not so approved by the stockholders of the Company, the Plan shall be null and void.
Effectiveness.
      6.06     This Plan is intended to supersede and replace the 1988 Nonqualified Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors of Noble Energy, Inc., as amended (the "1988 Plan"). The 1988 Plan shall terminate on the date the Plan is approved by the stockholders of the Company in accordance with the provisions of Section 6.05 hereof.
Termination of 1988 Plan.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Plan on this day of April, 2005.
          


