FILE:NBL/NBL-8K-20051116203507.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     Effective November 14, 2005, Mr. Frederick B. Bruning, age 57, was appointed as Chief Accounting Officer of Noble Energy, Inc. (the "Company"). Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Bruning was employed by Occidental Petroleum Corporation for 25 years, most recently serving as Vice President and Controller of Occidental Petroleum Corporation from 1994 to 1999. Since that time, Mr. Bruning has served as Chief Financial Officer and Vice President of Finance and Administration of BlueMountain.com (now a subsidiary of American Greetings Corporation) from 1999 to 2001, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President of Burstein Technologies, Inc. from 2001 to 2004, and most recently as Vice President of Business Operations for Fidelity National Financial in Santa Ana, California, from 2004 until April 2005. Mr. Bruning holds a BBA degree in Accounting from Loyola Marymount University. He is a Certified Public Accountant and a member of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants.
     Pursuant to an offer letter effective November 4, 2005, Mr. Bruning will be entitled to receive an annual base salary of $230,000, will be granted an incentive bonus of $40,000, which is conditioned upon his continued employment with the Company for at least 12 months, and will be eligible to participate in the Company's Short-Term Incentive Plan. In connection with his employment, Mr. Bruning will receive options exercisable for 10,000 shares of common stock of the Company pursuant to the Noble Energy, Inc. 1992 Stock Option and Restricted Stock Plan. Mr. Bruning's employment is terminable at will.
     On November 16, 2005, the Company issued a press release regarding the appointment of Mr. Bruning as the Company's Chief Accounting Officer. A copy of the press release issued by the Company is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
(November 16, 2005)  Noble Energy, Inc. (NYSE: NBL) today announced that Frederick (Fred) B. Bruning has joined the Company and will serve as Chief Accounting Officer, reporting to Chris Tong, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
HOUSTON
Mr. Bruning brings over thirty years of experience, having served most recently as Vice President of Business Operations for Fidelity National Financial, Business Systems Group in Santa Ana, CA. Previously, Mr. Bruning served twenty-five years in various financial leadership and accounting positions at Occidental Petroleum Corporation. Mr. Bruning earned a BBA in Accounting from Loyola Marymount University and is a Certified Public Accountant in California and Texas.
Mr. Tong said, "I am very pleased to announce Fred's appointment as Noble Energy's Chief Accounting Officer. Fred has extensive domestic and international accounting experience, which will be helpful as Noble Energy continues to grow its strong domestic and international asset base."
Noble Energy is one of the nation's leading independent energy companies and operates throughout major basins in the United States including the Gulf of Mexico, as well as the recently added Patina Oil & Gas properties located primarily in Colorado's Wattenberg Field, the Mid-continent region of western Oklahoma and the Texas Panhandle, and the San Juan Basin in New Mexico. In addition, Noble Energy operates internationally in Argentina, China, Ecuador, Equatorial Guinea, the Mediterranean Sea and the North Sea. Noble Energy markets natural gas and crude oil through its subsidiary, Noble Energy Marketing, Inc. Visit Noble Energy online at www.nobleenergyinc.com.
This news release may include projections and other "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Any such projections or statements reflect Noble Energy's current views about future events and financial performance. No assurances can be given that such events or performance will occur as projected and actual results may differ materially from those projected. Important factors that could cause the actual results to differ materially from those projected include, without limitation, the volatility in commodity prices for oil and gas, the presence or recoverability of estimated reserves, the ability to replace reserves, environmental risks, drilling and operating risks, exploration and development risks, competition, government regulation or other action, the ability of management to execute its plans to meet its goals and other risks inherent in Noble Energy's business that are detailed in its Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") filings.


