FILE:NBL/NBL-8K-20050729154337.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
 Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Noble Energy, Inc. (the "Company") hereby files by amendment to the Form 8-K filed by the Company on May 17, 2005 financial statements and unaudited pro forma financial information relating to the merger of Patina Oil & Gas Corporation ("Patina") with and into a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company.  The financial statements and pro forma information are described in Item 9.01 below and, where applicable, filed as exhibits to this report.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(a)
          
Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired.
 
Audited Consolidated Financial Statements of Patina as of December 31, 2004 and 2003 and for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 were previously reported in Patina's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004, File No. 001-14344, which was filed with the SEC on February 25, 2005, and are incorporated by reference herein.
 
Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements of Patina as of March 31, 2005 and for the three month periods ended March 31, 2005 and 2004 were previously reported in Patina's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the three months ended March 31, 2005, File No. 001-14344, which was filed with the SEC on May 3, 2005, and are incorporated by reference herein.
 
(b)
          
Pro Forma Financial Information.
 
Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Financial Statements for the Company and Patina as of March 31, 2005 and for the three months ended March 31, 2005 and year ended December 31, 2004 are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2.
 
(c)
          
Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 23.1
 
CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
 
We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Current Report on Form 8-K under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 of Noble Energy, Inc. dated July 29, 2005, of our reports dated February 23, 2005, relating to the financial statements of Patina Oil & Gas Corporation and management's report on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting appearing in the annual report on Form 10-K of Patina Oil & Gas Corporation for the year ended December 31, 2004.
 
 

Exhibit 23.2
 
 
We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration statements (File Nos. 333-18929 and 333-82953) on Form S-3 and the registration statements (File Nos. 333-108162, 333-39299, 33-32692, 2-66654, 33-54084, 333-118976, 333-118977 and 333-124964) on Form S-8 of Noble Energy, Inc. of the reference to Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. In the Annual Reports on Form 10-K for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002 of Patina Oil & Gas Corporation and its subsidiaries, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
UNAUDITED PRO FORMA CONDENSED COMBINED FINANCIAL INFORMATION
 
On May 16, 2005, Noble Energy, Inc. ("Noble Energy") completed a merger with Patina Oil & Gas Corporation ("Patina") as set forth in the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of December 15, 2004. In connection with the merger, Noble Energy issued approximately 27.8 million shares of its common stock and paid approximately $1.1 billion of cash to Patina shareholders.
 
The following unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information and explanatory notes present how the combined financial statements of Noble Energy and Patina may have appeared had the businesses actually been combined as of March 31, 2005 (with respect to the balance sheet information using currently available fair value information) or as of January 1, 2004 (with respect to statements of operations information). The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information shows the impact of the merger of Noble Energy and Patina on the companies' respective historical financial positions and results of operations under the purchase method of accounting with Noble Energy treated as the acquirer. Under this method of accounting, the assets and liabilities of Patina will be recorded by Noble Energy at their estimated fair values as of the date the merger was completed. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information combines the historical financial information of Noble Energy and Patina as of and for the three months ended March 31, 2005 and for the year ended December 31, 2004. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet as of March 31, 2005 assumes the merger was completed on that date. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of operations give effect to the merger as if the merger had been completed on January 1, 2004.
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information has been derived from and should be read together with the historical consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto included in the annual reports on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004 of both Noble Energy and Patina.
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information is presented for illustrative purposes only and does not indicate the financial results of the combined companies had the companies actually been combined and had the impact of possible revenue enhancements, expense efficiencies, asset dispositions and share repurchases, among other factors, been considered. In addition, as explained in more detail in the accompanying notes to the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information, the allocation of the purchase price reflected in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information is subject to adjustment and may vary from the actual purchase price allocation that will be recorded upon the effective time of the merger.
 
 
See accompanying Notes to the Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Financial Statements
 
 
See accompanying Notes to the Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Financial Statements
 
 
See accompanying Notes to the Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Financial Statements
Note 1
   
Basis of Presentation
 
The accompanying unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet of Noble Energy as of March 31, 2005 has been prepared to give effect to the merger as if it had occurred on March 31, 2005.
 
The accompanying unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of operations of Noble Energy for the three months ended March 31, 2005 and the year ended December 31, 2004 have been prepared to give effect to the merger as if the merger had occurred on January 1, 2004.
 
Noble Energy and Patina both use the successful efforts method of accounting for their oil and gas producing activities.
 
Noble Energy has accounted for the merger using the purchase method of accounting for business combinations. Under the purchase method of accounting, Noble Energy is deemed to be the acquirer for accounting purposes based on a number of factors determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. The purchase method of accounting requires that Patina assets acquired and liabilities assumed by Noble Energy be recorded at their estimated fair values.
 
Note 2
   
Pro Forma Adjustments Related to the Merger
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet includes the following adjustments:
 
These adjustments reflect the elimination of the components of Patina's historical stockholders' equity, the purchase price paid by Noble Energy and adjustments to the historical book values of Patina's assets and liabilities as of March 31, 2005 to their estimated fair values, in accordance with purchase accounting. The following table represents the preliminary allocation of the total purchase price of Patina to the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed based on the preliminary
(a)
      
estimates of fair value.
 
 
The average Noble Energy common stock price of $59.55 was based on the volume-weighted average prices of Noble Energy common stock during the five business days commencing two days before the merger was announced.
(i)
   
The purchase price includes the value of the Noble Energy common stock issued to Patina shareholders in the merger.
 
The total purchase price includes approximately $13.3 million of merger costs incurred by Noble Energy. These costs include investment banking expenses, legal and accounting fees, printing expenses and other merger related costs. These costs have been added to long-term debt in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet.
(ii)
  
 
All Patina stock options were converted in the merger into Noble Energy stock options. The fair values of the Patina options were estimated using Black-Scholes valuation assumptions, including expected life, volatility, risk free interest rates and expected dividend yield.
(iii)
 
Under the terms of a certain Patina warrant agreement, each warrant was exercisable for the kind and amount of securities and other assets that were received in the merger by "no election" shareholders. Based on the election results, Noble Energy common stock was oversubscribed by Patina's stockholders, and all Patina shares that elected cash or did not make a valid election were converted into the right to receive cash. Therefore, the Patina warrants will be settled in cash, and, as a result, Noble Energy has assumed a liability of $16,839,800 related to the warrants.
(iv)
 
 
The fair value of long-term debt, net of cash acquired, was estimated as follows (in 000's):
(v)
  
 
 
These adjustments assume the settlement, net of third party margin deposits, of Patina's hedging instruments on March 31, 2005, (pursuant to the merger agreement, at the request of Noble Energy the hedges were terminated prior to closing). These settlements result in the recognition of a current and non-current deferred tax asset as a result of the realized losses on the settlements.
(1)
  
 
The preliminary allocation of purchase price includes approximately $945 million of goodwill. The significant factors that contributed to the recognition of goodwill include, but are not limited to, economies of scale in connection with our existing domestic operations, and the ability to acquire an established business with an assembled workforce with technological and operational expertise in tight gas sand formations. In July 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement No. 141, Business Combinations, and Statement No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. As a result of these two pronouncements, goodwill recorded in connection with business combinations is no longer amortized but rather tested for impairment at least annually. Accordingly, the accompanying unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of operations includes no amortization of the goodwill to be recorded in the merger.
(vi)
 
 
The purchase price allocation is preliminary and is subject to change due to several factors, including, but not limited to, changes in the fair values of Patina's assets and liabilities as of the effective time of the merger and changes in Noble Energy valuation estimates that may be made between now and the time the purchase price allocation is finalized.
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of operations includes the following adjustments:
 
These adjustments reclassify Patina's historical gathering, processing, and marketing costs and transportation expenses to conform with Noble Energy's presentation.
(b)
      
 
These adjustments increase Patina's historical depletion expense associated with oil and gas properties based on the pro forma allocation of purchase price and reclassify accretion expense of the asset retirement obligation to conform with Noble Energy's presentation.
(c)
      
These adjustments increase interest expense for the effect of the additional debt assumed from the merger and the amounts borrowed under Noble Energy's new five year credit facility and the amortization of the related debt issuance costs. The interest rate used in the calculation of interest expense is based on an expected interest rate of 3.62%. A / percentage point change in the interest rate would result in an adjustment to pro forma income from continuing operations of approximately $0.5 million and $2.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2005 and the year ended December 31, 2004, respectively.
(d)
      
1
8
th
 
These adjustments reclassify Patina's historical other revenue amounts to conform with Noble Energy's presentation.
(e)
      
 
These adjustments record the income tax impact of the depletion expense and the interest expense pro forma adjustments at an effective income tax rate of 37.6% and adjusts Patina's historical tax provisions to the combined effective tax rate.
(f)
       
 
These adjustments reflect Noble Energy's weighted average basic and diluted common shares outstanding during the three months ended March 31, 2005 and year ended December 31, 2004 based on the Noble Energy common stock issued in the merger. See Note 4.
(g)
      
 
Note 3
   
Deferred Compensation Plan
 
These pro forma adjustments represent the assumption of Patina's existing deferred compensation plan by Noble Energy. The assets of the deferred compensation plan are held in a rabbi trust and are comprised of mutual fund investments and Patina common stock. The shares of Patina common stock held in the rabbi trust were allocated 87% in Noble Energy common stock and 13% in cash, with the cash received by the rabbi trust used to purchase additional mutual fund investments. The pro forma deferred compensation liability and treasury stock amount represent the fair value of the deferred compensation liability and treasury stock based on a Noble Energy stock price of $68.02.
 
Note 4
   
Weighted Average Common Shares Outstanding
 
Unaudited pro forma condensed combined income from continuing operations per share for the periods presented below have been calculated based on the weighted average number of shares outstanding as follows:
 
 
The Patina historical weighted average basic and diluted shares outstanding have been adjusted to give effect to the exchange of Patina common stock for Noble Energy common stock, the vesting of restricted stock, the exchange of the Patina options and the settlement of the warrant agreement in cash.
(i)
   
 
Note 5
   
Merger Financing
 
For the purpose of funding the cash portion of the merger, Noble Energy entered into a $1.3 billion credit facility with certain financial institutions. These funds, along with capacity available under its two existing $400 million credit facilities, were utilized to fund the cash portion and to repay a portion of liabilities assumed in the merger. The $1.3 billion credit facility is a senior unsecured revolving credit facility with a five-year term and with other terms and conditions similar to Noble Energy's two existing $400 million credit facilities. The facility is a reducing revolver due 2010 with a five percent per quarter commitment reduction in each calendar quarter during year four and 20 percent per quarter reduction in year five. The facility incurred a 7.5 basis point "ticking" fee from the effective date, April 4, 2005, until the initial borrowing date under the facility. Commencing on the initial borrowing date, May 16, 2005, the Company incurs a facility fee of 10 to 25 basis points per annum depending upon the Company's credit rating. The facility bears interest based upon a Eurodollar rate plus 30 to 100 basis points depending upon the Company's credit rating. Noble Energy incurred approximately $2.5 million of debt issuance costs associated with the $1.3 billion commitment agreement.


