FILE:NBL/NBL-8K-20060518084731.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
     On May 15, 2006, Noble Energy, Inc. (the "Company") entered into a Purchase and Sale Agreement (the "Agreement") with Coldren Resources LP ("Coldren") by which the Company agreed to sell to Coldren substantially all of its Gulf of Mexico shelf assets. Total consideration for the sale will be in the form of cash and in the amount of Six Hundred Twenty-Five Million Dollars ($625,000,000), subject to adjustments, including those relating to the exercise of preferential rights or title or environmental defects. Completion of the transaction is subject to customary conditions, including expiration or termination of the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976.
     The entry into the Agreement was approved by the Company's Board of Directors prior to execution. The closing of the transaction contemplated in the Agreement is expected to occur by June 30, 2006, with an effective date of March 1, 2006.
     On May 16, 2006, the Company issued a press release announcing its entry into the Agreement. A copy of the press release issued by the Company is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
     On May 18, 2006, the Company presented an Annual Management Review slide show presentation to analysts at an investor conference. The presentation contains financial and operating guidance for the Company for fiscal years 2006 and 2007. The slide show presentation also includes projections and other "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the federal securities laws. The slide entitled "Forward-looking Statement" contains important information regarding forward-looking statements that are included in the presentation. Certain slides from the presentation are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and are incorporated herein by reference. The entire slide show presentation is available on the Company's website at .
www.nobleenergyinc.com
     The information contained in this Item 7.01 and Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to liabilities of that Section.
Item 8.01. Other Items.
     On May 16, 2006, the Company also announced a program to purchase up to $500 million of the Company's outstanding common stock, such purchases to be from time to time on the open market or in negotiated purchases. The timing and amounts of any repurchases will be at management's discretion and in accordance with securities laws and other legal requirements. The program is subject to reevaluation in the event of changes in market conditions.
     On May 16, 2006, the Company issued a press release announcing the repurchase program. A copy of the press release issued by the Company is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
(May 16, 2006)  Noble Energy, Inc. (NYSE: ) today announced that it has entered into a purchase and sale agreement to sell its Gulf of Mexico shelf assets to Coldren Resources LP for $625 million. The sale is expected to close by June 30, 2006 with an effective date of March 1, 2006. The purchase and sales agreement is subject to customary conditions, including expiration or termination of the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, and closing adjustments.
HOUSTON
NBL
Noble Energy also announced that its board of directors has authorized the purchase of up to $500 million of the company's common stock. Noble Energy may buy shares from time to time on the open market or in negotiated purchases. The timing and amounts of any repurchases will be at management's discretion and in accordance with securities laws and other legal requirements. The repurchase program is subject to reevaluation in the event of changes in market conditions.
The sale will include essentially all of the company's assets in the Gulf of Mexico shelf. Noble Energy will retain its interest in the Main Pass area, which is currently undergoing repair work after suffering significant hurricane damage in 2004 and 2005. The company plans to continue active exploration and production activities in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and onshore Gulf coast areas.
Production from the assets to be sold currently totals approximately 5,000 barrels of oil per day and 90 million cubic feet of natural gas per day, net to Noble Energy, for a combined total of approximately 20,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day. As of March 1, 2006, Noble Energy's proved reserves for the assets being sold totaled seven million barrels of oil and 120 billion cubic feet of natural gas, or a combined total of 27 million barrels of oil equivalent.
Charles Davidson, Noble Energy's Chairman, President and CEO, said, "The sale of our Gulf of Mexico shelf assets is another significant step in focusing Noble Energy's future investments and growth in the most prospective areas worldwide. Our merger with Patina Oil & Gas in 2005 and acquisition of United States Exploration in 2006 have brought us an immense inventory of low risk and high return projects in the Rockies and Mid-continent regions of North America. When coupled with our long-lived international assets and high-impact exploration program in the deepwater and in international, we believe Noble Energy is well-positioned to accelerate value creation for our shareholders."
After-tax cash proceeds from the sale are expected to be approximately $525 million. The company expects to record a pretax gain from the sale of approximately $270 million, which will be more than offset by the following non-cash items:
The reclassification of OCL to income reflects the mark-to-market value of certain cash flow hedges related to the company's Gulf of Mexico shelf production. In addition, Noble Energy expects to re-designate these hedges to other North American production. The re-designation of hedges will result in a similar increase in prices realized by Noble Energy for some of its natural gas sales for the period
 
beginning at the closing date through 2008. The volume of hedges that will receive such treatment in 2006 following closing is 100 MMMBtupd. The actual impact of the reclassification of OCL to income will be recognized on the closing date of the sale.
The above discussion of the after-tax cash proceeds and loss associated with the Gulf of Mexico shelf sale is based on estimates of market conditions at closing. All estimates are subject to change based on final analysis of assets and liabilities sold and market conditions.
Randall & Dewey, a division of Jefferies & Company, Inc., and J.P. Morgan provided advisory services to Noble Energy on this transaction.
Noble Energy is one of the nation's leading independent energy companies and operates throughout major basins in the United States including Colorado's Wattenberg field, the Mid-continent region of western Oklahoma and the Texas Panhandle, the San Juan basin in New Mexico, the Gulf Coast and the Gulf of Mexico. In addition, Noble Energy operates internationally in Argentina, China, Ecuador, Equatorial Guinea, the Mediterranean Sea, the North Sea and Suriname. Noble Energy markets natural gas and crude oil through its subsidiary, Noble Energy Marketing, Inc. Visit Noble Energy online at www.nobleenergyinc.com.
This news release may include projections and other "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Any such projections or statements reflect Noble Energy's current views about future events and financial performance. No assurances can be given that such events or performance will occur as projected, and actual results may differ materially from those projected. Important factors that could cause the actual results to differ materially from those projected include, without limitation, the volatility in commodity prices for oil and gas, the presence or recoverability of estimated reserves, the ability to replace reserves, environmental risks, drilling and operating risks, exploration and development risks, competition, government regulation or other action, the ability of management to execute its plans to meet its goals and other risks inherent in Noble Energy's business that are detailed in its Securities and Exchange Commission filings. The United States Securities and Exchange Commission permits oil and gas companies, in their filings with the SEC, to disclose only proved reserves. We use certain terms in this press release, such as "resources," "estimated resource range," "resource potential" and "potential resources," that the SEC's guidelines strictly prohibit us from including in filings with the SEC. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosures and risk factors in our Forms 10-K and 10-Q, File No. 1-16619, available from Noble Energy's offices or website, www.nobleenergyinc.com. These forms can also be obtained from the SEC by calling 1-800-SEC-0330.

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


