FILE:NBL/NBL-8K-20060404164110.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.01 Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
     On March 29, 2006, Noble Energy Production, Inc. ("Noble"), a subsidiary of Noble Energy, Inc. (the "Company"), closed the purchase of all of the issued and outstanding shares of U.S. Exploration Holdings, Inc. (including its subsidiary, United States Exploration, Inc.) for total cash consideration of Four Hundred Eleven Million Dollars ($411,000,000), subject to adjustments for title and environmental defects and other customary items set forth in the Purchase and Sale Agreement dated February 7, 2006 between Noble and U.S. Exploration Holdings, LLC. In connection with the purchase, all associated company debt was retired, all commodity hedges were terminated and all severance obligations were satisfied.
     On March 30, 2006, the Company issued a press release announcing the closing of this purchase. A copy of the press release issued by the Company is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (c) Exhibits. The following exhibits are furnished as part of this current Report on Form 8-K:
     99.1           Press Release dated March 30, 2006.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
(March 30, 2006)  Noble Energy, Inc. (NYSE: NBL) today closed its previously announced purchase of United States Exploration, Inc., a privately held corporation located in Billings, Montana. Noble Energy is proceeding with the integration of United States Exploration's assets into its current operations. The acquisition significantly expands Noble Energy's operations in its core Wattenberg field located in Colorado.
HOUSTON
Noble Energy is one of the nation's leading independent energy companies and operates throughout major basins in the United States including Colorado's Wattenberg field, the Mid-continent region of western Oklahoma and the Texas Panhandle, the San Juan Basin in New Mexico and the Gulf of Mexico. In addition, Noble Energy operates internationally in Argentina, China, Ecuador, Equatorial Guinea, the Mediterranean Sea and the North Sea. Noble Energy markets natural gas and crude oil through its subsidiary, Noble Energy Marketing, Inc. Visit Noble Energy online at http://www.nobleenergyinc.com.
This news release may include projections and other "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Any such projections or statements reflect Noble Energy's current views about future events and financial performance. No assurances can be given that such events or performance will occur as projected, and actual results may differ materially from those projected. Important factors that could cause the actual results to differ materially from those projected include, without limitation, the volatility in commodity prices for oil and gas, the presence or recoverability of estimated reserves, the ability to replace reserves, environmental risks, drilling and operating risks, exploration and development risks, competition, government regulation or other action, the ability of management to execute its plans to meet its goals and other risks inherent in Noble Energy's business that are detailed in its Securities and Exchange Commission filings.


