FILE:NBL/NBL-8K-20071029164417.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     (d) Election of Director.
     Effective October 23, 2007, the board of directors of Noble Energy, Inc. (the "Company") increased the size of the board by one member and elected Scott D. Urban to fill the vacancy created by such increase. At this time, Mr. Urban has not been appointed to a committee of the Company's board of directors. The Company will file an amendment to this Current Report on Form 8-K to report any such appointment within four business days after the information is determined or becomes available. A copy of the press release announcing the appointment of Mr. Urban is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
     In connection with Mr. Urban's election to the Company's board of directors, the Company awarded 4,800 restricted shares of the Company's common stock and options to purchase 11,200 shares of the Company's common stock to Mr. Urban, effective October 23, 2007. The restricted shares and options were awarded to Mr. Urban pursuant to the 2005 Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors of Noble Energy, Inc., which is filed as Exhibit A to the Company's Definitive Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A, as filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on March 18, 2005. The specific terms of the restricted stock award are governed by a Restricted Stock Agreement dated October 23, 2007 between Mr. Urban and the Company, the form of which is filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, as filed with the SEC on August 4, 2005. The specific terms of the stock option grant are governed by a Stock Option Agreement dated October 23, 2007 between Mr. Urban and the Company, the form of which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, as filed with the SEC on August 4, 2005.
     Effective October 23, 2007, the Company entered into its customary form of indemnity agreement with Mr. Urban. The form of the indemnity agreement entered into between the Company and Mr. Urban is filed as Exhibit 10.18 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
(October 23, 2007)  Noble Energy, Inc. (NYSE: ) announced today that its Board of Directors elected Scott D. Urban to its board, increasing the number of directors to nine.
HOUSTON
NBL
Mr. Urban served in executive management positions at Amoco and its successor, BP. At the time of his retirement from BP in 2005, he was Group Vice President, Upstream for several existing profit centers including North America Gas, Alaska, Egypt and Middle East and, before that, Group Vice President, Upstream North Sea. Mr. Urban held various positions at Amoco including, at the time of its 2000 merger with BP, Group Vice President, Worldwide Exploration. Mr. Urban holds a M.S. degree in Geology and B.S. degree in Earth Science from Bowling Green State University and is a graduate of the Stanford University Executive Program.
Noble Energy's Chairman, President, and CEO, Charles D. Davidson, commented: "On behalf of Noble Energy's board, we are pleased to welcome Mr. Urban to the Noble Energy team. Scott's global energy experience will be invaluable to our company's future growth and success."
Noble Energy is one of the nation's leading independent energy companies and operates throughout major basins in the United States including Colorado's Wattenberg Field, the Mid-continent region of western Oklahoma and the Texas Panhandle, the San Juan Basin in New Mexico, the Gulf Coast and the deepwater Gulf of Mexico. In addition, Noble Energy operates internationally in Argentina, China, Ecuador, the Mediterranean Sea (Israel), the North Sea (UK, the Netherlands, and Norway), West Africa (Equatorial Guinea and Cameroon) and Suriname. Noble Energy markets natural gas and crude oil through its subsidiary, Noble Energy Marketing, Inc. Visit Noble Energy online at .
www.nobleenergyinc.com


