FILE:NBL/NBL-8K-20080501091941.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On May 1, 2008 Noble Energy, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing results for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2008. A copy of the press release issued by the Company is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
     The Company's press release announcing its financial results for its fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2008 contains non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided quantitative reconciliations within the press release of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
     The information in this Form 8-K and Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to liabilities of that Section.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
(May 1, 2008)  Noble Energy, Inc. (NYSE: ) today reported its first quarter 2008 results. Net income for the quarter was $215 million, or $1.20 per share diluted, on revenues of $1.0 billion. The results included a previously disclosed $218 million ($149 million after-tax) unrealized commodity derivative loss. Excluding this item, first quarter 2008 adjusted net income (a non-GAAP measure, see Schedule 1) was $364 million, or $2.05 per share diluted. For the same period in 2007, the company reported net income of $212 million, or $1.22 per diluted share, on revenues of $743 million.
HOUSTON
NBL
Discretionary cash flow (a non-GAAP measure, see Schedule 5) for the first quarter 2008 was a record $662 million, compared to $448 million for the same period in 2007. Net cash provided by operating activities was $506 million.
Key highlights for the first quarter 2008 include:
"We are experiencing exceptional performance from multiple areas as we begin this new year. Our outstanding first quarter results were driven by strong worldwide growth in production coupled with increasing energy prices. As such, we find ourselves in an excellent position for delivering on our 2008 growth objectives. We are also looking forward to the results of important upcoming exploration programs which include significant wells in West Africa and Suriname, where rigs are already on location, as well as in Israel and the deepwater Gulf of Mexico," said Noble Energy's Chairman, President and CEO, Charles D. Davidson.
 
Noble Energy's operating income for the quarter was $563 million, an increase of 64 percent over the similar quarter last year. Sales volumes for the quarter averaged 222 MBoepd, up 23 percent over first quarter 2007, with growth coming from both the United States and International assets.
During the quarter, Rocky Mountain volumes reached a record level of 57 MBoepd due to continued drilling success. Deepwater Gulf of Mexico volumes rebounded with strong performance from the development projects at Swordfish and Ticonderoga. Internationally, higher natural gas demand in Israel resulted in record sales in the quarter, and in West Africa, volumes benefited from natural gas sales to the liquefied natural gas facility and the timing of condensate and LPG cargo liftings.
Effective in 2008, Noble Energy began reporting natural gas liquid volumes separately where the company has the right to the liquids recovered from its natural gas processed at third-party processing plants. The effect is evidenced with lower natural gas volumes in the United States compared to 2007. Where the rights do not exist, the processing revenue will continue to be included in natural gas revenues and benefit realized prices.
Worldwide commodity markets were robust during the quarter. On average for the quarter, Noble Energy received $78.89 per barrel for crude oil and condensate, $5.34 per thousand cubic feet for natural gas, and domestic natural gas liquids prices averaged $55.15 per barrel. Crude oil and natural gas realizations for the quarter were impacted by the settlement of commodity derivative contracts.
Production costs, including lease operating, production and ad valorem taxes, and transportation expenses, were $6.83 per barrel of oil equivalent (Boe), a decrease of three percent from the first quarter 2007. Depreciation, depletion, and amortization was $10.05 per Boe, down over one percent. The lower per unit costs benefited from increased volumes in the Rocky Mountains, Israel, and West Africa.
The company also announced an increase to its 2008 capital program from $1.6 billion to $1.9 billion. The incremental $300 million will fund new opportunities that expand its positions in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, East Texas, and the Rocky Mountains, as well as accelerate the phase two development of the Dumbarton project in the North Sea.
Noble Energy's first quarter 2008 conference call will be available today via live audio webcast at 9 a.m. Central Time. To listen, log on to and click on the Investor Relations tab. Dial in numbers are (888) 632-5006 or (913) 312-1411. The pass code is Noble Energy 2008
www.nobleenergyinc.com
 
First Quarter Results'. The conference call replay will be available until June 1, 2008. To access the replay, go to and click on the Investor Relations tab. You can also access the replay by dialing (888) 203-1112 or (719) 457-0820. The pin code is 4465361.
www.nobleenergyinc.com
Noble Energy is one of the nation's leading independent energy companies and operates throughout major basins in the United States including Colorado's Wattenberg field and Piceance basin, the Mid-continent region of western Oklahoma and the Texas Panhandle, the San Juan Basin in New Mexico, the Gulf Coast and the deepwater Gulf of Mexico. In addition, Noble Energy operates internationally in China, Ecuador, the Mediterranean Sea, the North Sea, and West Africa (Equatorial Guinea and Cameroon). Visit Noble Energy online at .
www.nobleenergyinc.com
: David Larson (281) 872-3125
Contacts
dlarson@nobleenergyinc.com
Brad Whitmarsh (281) 872-3187
bwhitmarsh@nobleenergyinc.com
This news release may include projections and other "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Any such projections or statements reflect Noble Energy's current views about future events and financial performance. No assurances can be given that such events or performance will occur as projected, and actual results may differ materially from those projected. Important factors that could cause the actual results to differ materially from those projected include, without limitation, the volatility in commodity prices for oil and gas, the presence or recoverability of estimated reserves, the ability to replace reserves, environmental risks, drilling and operating risks, exploration and development risks, competition, government regulation or other action, the ability of management to execute its plans to meet its goals and other risks inherent in Noble Energy's business that are detailed in its Securities and Exchange Commission filings. The United States Securities and Exchange Commission permits oil and gas companies, in their filings with the SEC, to disclose only proved reserves. We may use certain terms in this news release, such as "resources," "estimated resource range," "resource potential" and "potential resources," that the SEC's guidelines strictly prohibit us from including in filings with the SEC. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosures and risk factors in our Forms 10-K and 10-Q, File No. 1-07964, available from Noble Energy's offices or website,
www.nobleenergyinc.com
. These forms can also be obtained from the SEC by calling 1-800-SEC-0330.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


