FILE:NBL/NBL-8K-20081029091418.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On October 29, 2008 Noble Energy, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing results for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2008. A copy of the press release issued by the Company is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
     The Company's press release announcing its financial results for its fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2008 contains non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided quantitative reconciliations within the press release of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
     The information in this Form 8-K and Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to liabilities of that Section.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
(October 29, 2008)  Noble Energy, Inc. (NYSE: ) reported today third quarter 2008 net income of $974 million, or $5.37 per share diluted. The results included a previously disclosed $943 million ($637 million after-tax) non-cash gain, which represents the unrealized mark-to-market change in the Company's financial commodity contracts. Excluding this item and certain other items typically not included by analysts in published estimates, third quarter 2008 adjusted net income was $395 million, or $2.08 per share diluted. For the same period in 2007, net income was $223 million, or $1.28 per share diluted. Noble Energy sells forward a portion of its production utilizing financial commodity contracts. Beginning with 2008, the Company changed its accounting method for these contracts to mark-to-market accounting in order to provide greater flexibility and transparency.
HOUSTON
NBL
(1)
Discretionary cash flow for the third quarter 2008 was $657 million, compared to $556 million for the same period in 2007. Net cash provided by operating activities was $713 million.
(1)
Key highlights for the third quarter 2008 include:
"Noble Energy has delivered exceptional third quarter 2008 operating and financial results from our diversified and balanced portfolio. We had significant exploration success during the quarter, which included our largest discovery to date in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico. In addition, we are excited about the successful flow test results at the Diega oil discovery in Equatorial Guinea. During the quarter, we were able to offset lost volumes from the hurricanes with better performance in other areas. As we head toward the end of the year, we are very encouraged that our performance to date has put us in a great position to achieve our operating objectives for the year. Our strong balance sheet and cash flows have positioned us well during this period when we are experiencing a weakening economy and related declines in commodity prices," said Noble Energy's Chairman, President and CEO, Charles D. Davidson.
 
Noble Energy's operating income for the third quarter 2008 was $546 million, up 45 percent from the same quarter last year. Sales volumes averaged 211 thousand barrels of oil equivalent per day (Boe/d), with 60 percent natural gas and 40 percent liquids. United States volumes were up four percent over the third quarter last year, despite temporary shut-ins of production due to hurricanes Gustav and Ike, which reduced volumes on average 7,500 Boe/d during the quarter.
Effective in 2008, Noble Energy began reporting natural gas liquid volumes separately where the company has the right to the liquids recovered from its natural gas processed at third-party plants. As a consequence, reported natural gas volumes in the United States are lower compared to 2007. Where the rights to the liquids do not exist, the processing revenue will continue to be included in natural gas revenues and benefit realized prices.
Volumes in Israel grew 18 percent over the third quarter of last year due to strength in natural gas demand. Total international volumes were down versus the third quarter 2007, primarily due to lower volumes in West Africa and the North Sea. In addition, the third quarter of 2008 did not include any volumes from the Argentina assets sold earlier this year. Operations in West Africa were impacted by facility maintenance downtime, which resulted in reduced natural gas sales. North Sea oil volumes were lower due to expected declines in the original phase of development at Dumbarton.
Commodity prices were up significantly versus third quarter 2007. On average for the quarter, Noble Energy realized $101.82 per barrel for crude oil and condensate and $5.31 per thousand cubic feet for natural gas. United States natural gas liquids prices averaged $57.06 per barrel. Crude oil and natural gas realizations for the quarter were impacted by $89 million and $4 million, respectively, in previously deferred commodity hedge losses.
Lease operating expense totaled $5.05 and depreciation, depletion, and amortization was $9.99 per barrel of oil equivalent in the third quarter 2008. Higher lease operating unit costs compared to the third quarter 2007 were primarily the result of increased operating and maintenance costs in the North Sea. DD&A unit costs were down slightly, largely due to increased volumes from lower cost operations in Israel. Production and ad valorem taxes were up due to higher crude oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquid revenues. General and administrative expenses increased due to costs associated with higher levels of staffing.
 
Non-GAAP measure, See Attached Reconciliation Schedules
(1)
 
Noble Energy's third quarter 2008 conference call will be available today via live audio webcast at 9:00 a.m. Central Time. To listen, log on to and click on the Investor Relations tab. Dial in numbers are (866) 293-8968 or (913) 312-0707. The pass code is Noble Energy 2008 Third Quarter Results'. The conference call replay will be available until November 28, 2008. To access the replay, go to and click on the Investor Relations tab. You can also access the replay by dialing (888) 203-1112 or (719) 457-0820. The pin code is 4659455.
www.nobleenergyinc.com
www.nobleenergyinc.com
Noble Energy is a leading independent energy company engaged in worldwide oil and gas exploration and production. The Company operates primarily in the Rocky Mountains, Mid-Continent, and deepwater Gulf of Mexico areas in the United States, with key international operations offshore Israel, UK and West Africa. Noble Energy is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and is traded under the ticker symbol NBL. Visit Noble Energy online at .
www.nobleenergyinc.com
: David Larson (281) 872-3125
Contacts
dlarson@nobleenergyinc.com
Brad Whitmarsh (281) 872-3187
bwhitmarsh@nobleenergyinc.com
This news release may include projections and other "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Any such projections or statements reflect Noble Energy's current views about future events and financial performance. No assurances can be given that such events or performance will occur as projected, and actual results may differ materially from those projected. Risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected include, without limitation, the volatility in commodity prices for crude oil and natural gas, the presence or recoverability of estimated reserves, the ability to replace reserves, environmental risks, drilling and operating risks, exploration and development risks, competition, government regulation or other action, the ability of management to execute its plans to meet its goals and other risks inherent in Noble Energy's business that are detailed in its Securities and Exchange Commission filings. Words such as "anticipates," "believes," "expects," "intends," "will," "should," "may," and similar expressions may be used to identify forward-looking statements. Noble Energy assumes no obligation and expressly disclaims any duty to update the information contained herein except as required by law.
This news release may also contain certain forward-looking non-GAAP measures of financial performance that management believes are good tools for internal use and the investment community in evaluating the company's overall financial performance. These non-GAAP measures are broadly used to value and compare companies in the crude oil and natural gas industry.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


