FILE:NBL/NBL-8K-20080730080630.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     On July 30, 2008 Noble Energy, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing results for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2008. A copy of the press release issued by the Company is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
     The Company's press release announcing its financial results for its fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2008 contains non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided quantitative reconciliations within the press release of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
     The information in this Form 8-K and Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to liabilities of that Section.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
(July 30, 2008)  Noble Energy, Inc. (NYSE: ) today reported a second quarter 2008 net loss of $144 million, or $0.84 per share on revenues of $1.2 billion. The result included a previously disclosed $716 million ($481 million after-tax) unrealized commodity derivative loss. Excluding this item, second quarter 2008 adjusted net income (a non-GAAP measure, see Schedule 1) was $337 million, or $1.93 per share diluted. For the same period in 2007, net income was $209 million, or $1.21 per share diluted, on revenues of $794 million.
HOUSTON
NBL
Discretionary cash flow (a non-GAAP measure, see Schedule 5) for the second quarter 2008 was a record $685 million, compared to $473 million for the same period in 2007. Net cash provided by operating activities was $648 million.
Key highlights for the second quarter 2008 include:
"The second quarter 2008 was another excellent quarter for Noble Energy. Our ongoing development programs in the United States again contributed outstanding volume growth. We continued to supplement our organic programs with new acreage and selected producing properties that fit with our strategies for growth. Internationally, we experienced natural gas sales growth in Israel and West Africa compared to the second quarter last year and advanced our Dumbarton development in the North Sea. Our exploration programs continued their momentum with oil and gas-condensate discoveries offshore West Africa, as well as a natural gas discovery in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico. We remain excited about the progress we have made towards our 2008 goals and our ability to capitalize on the current environment in which we operate," said Noble Energy's Chairman, President and CEO, Charles D. Davidson.
 
Noble Energy's operating income for the quarter was $672 million, up significantly from the same quarter last year. Sales volumes averaged 218 thousand barrels of oil equivalent per day (MBoepd), up nine percent over second quarter 2007 or 11 percent after adjusting for the Argentina asset sale. United States volumes were up five percent and International volumes were up 14 percent, respectively.
During the quarter, Rocky Mountain volumes reached a record level of 61 MBoepd resulting from ongoing development and drilling success. Deepwater Gulf of Mexico volumes continued their strong performance from recent development projects averaging approximately 29 MBoepd for the quarter. Due to robust market demand, natural gas sales in Israel were 121 million cubic feet per day.
Effective in 2008, Noble Energy began reporting natural gas liquid volumes separately where the company has the right to the liquids recovered from its natural gas processed at third-party plants. As a consequence, reported natural gas volumes in the United States are lower compared to 2007. Where the rights to the liquids do not exist, the processing revenue will continue to be included in natural gas revenues and benefit realized prices.
On average for the quarter, Noble Energy received $105.46 per barrel for crude oil and condensate and $5.86 per thousand cubic feet for natural gas. United States natural gas liquids prices averaged $59.65 per barrel. Crude oil and natural gas realizations for the quarter were impacted by the settlement of commodity derivative contracts.
Lease operating and transportation expenses totaled $5.24 per barrel of oil equivalent (Boe), down four percent from the second quarter 2007. Depreciation, depletion, and amortization was $9.88 per Boe, a two percent decrease. Unit costs benefited from increased volumes from lower cost operations in the Rocky Mountains, Israel, and West Africa. Production and ad valorem taxes were up due to higher oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquid revenues.
Exploration expense for the quarter included unsuccessful tests at Stones River in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and West Tapir offshore Suriname. Included in other expenses for the quarter was deferred compensation expense of $29 million relating to the increased value of Noble Energy stock held in a benefit program.
Mid-continent Acquisition
Noble Energy also announced the acquisition of producing properties in western Oklahoma for $291 million in cash, subject to customary adjustments. Properties acquired cover approximately 15,500 net acres and have net production of 25 million cubic feet equivalent per day. Proved and probable
 
resources are estimated to be 132 billion cubic feet equivalent with approximately 75 percent natural gas and 25 percent liquids. Noble Energy will operate the assets with an average working interest of 83 percent, with plans to double net production over the next two years through the drilling of over 70 additional horizontal wells. The transaction closed in early July.
Noble Energy's second quarter 2008 conference call will be available today via live audio webcast at 9:00 a.m. Central Time. To listen, log on to and click on the Investor Relations tab. Dial in numbers are (888) 661-5157 or (913) 312-0641. The pass code is Noble Energy 2008 Second Quarter Results'. The conference call replay will be available until August 30, 2008. To access the replay, go to and click on the Investor Relations tab. You can also access the replay by dialing (888) 203-1112 or (719) 457-0820. The pin code is 4975764.
www.nobleenergyinc.com
www.nobleenergyinc.com
Noble Energy is a leading independent energy company engaged in worldwide oil and gas exploration and production. The Company operates primarily in the Rocky Mountains, Mid-Continent, and deepwater Gulf of Mexico areas in the United States, with key international operations offshore Israel, UK and West Africa. Noble Energy is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and is traded under the ticker symbol NBL. Visit Noble Energy online at
www.nobleenergyinc.com.
: David Larson (281) 872-3125    
Contacts
dlarson@nobleenergyinc.com
Brad Whitmarsh (281) 872-3187    
bwhitmarsh@nobleenergyinc.com
This news release may include projections and other "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Any such projections or statements reflect Noble Energy's current views about future events and financial performance. No assurances can be given that such events or performance will occur as projected, and actual results may differ materially from those projected. Risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected include, without limitation, the volatility in commodity prices for crude oil and natural gas, the presence or recoverability of estimated reserves, the ability to replace reserves, environmental risks, drilling and operating risks, exploration and development risks, competition, government regulation or other action, the ability of management to execute its plans to meet its goals and other risks inherent in Noble Energy's business that are detailed in its Securities and Exchange Commission filings. Words such as "anticipates," "believes," "expects," "intends," "will," "should," "may," and similar expressions may be used to identify forward-looking statements. Noble Energy assumes no obligation and expressly disclaims any duty to update the information contained herein except as required by law.
This news release may also contain certain forward-looking non-GAAP measures of financial performance that management believes are good tools for internal use and the investment community in evaluating the company's overall financial performance. These non-GAAP measures are broadly used to value and compare companies in the crude oil and natural gas industry.
The United States Securities and Exchange Commission permits oil and gas companies, in their filings with the SEC, to disclose only proved reserves that a company has demonstrated by actual production or conclusive formation tests to be economically and legally producible under existing economic and operating conditions. We use certain terms in this news release, such as "resources,"
 
that the SEC's guidelines strictly prohibit us from including in filings with the SEC. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosures and risk factors in our Forms 10-K and 10-Q, File No. 1-07964, available from Noble Energy's offices or website, http://www.nobleenergyinc.com. These forms can also be obtained from the SEC by calling 1-800-SEC-0330.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


