FILE:NBL/NBL-8K-20080417084811.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
I. Price Risk Management
(a) With the objective of enhancing the certainty of future revenues, from time to time Noble Energy, Inc. (weor the Company) enter into commodity derivative instruments. Through December 31, 2007, we elected to designate the majority of these derivative instruments as cash flow hedges for financial accounting purposes. Effective January 1, 2008 forward, we voluntarily elected to account for these derivative instruments using the mark-to-market (MTM) accounting method and from that date will recognize all future gains and losses on derivative instruments in earnings in the period in which they occur.
(b) For the quarter ended March 31, 2008, we anticipate pre-tax MTM derivative losses of $237 million from our crude oil and natural gas derivative instruments described separately below, of which $218 million was unrealized. We intend to report adjusted net income in our quarterly press release of earnings by eliminating the unrealized MTM loss (net of tax) from net income to arrive at adjusted net income. Although adjusted net income is a non-GAAP measure, we believe it is useful information for investors because the unrealized loss relates to derivative instruments that hedge our production in future months. The loss that is associated with derivative instruments that hedge current production is recognized in net income and is not eliminated in determining adjusted net income. The adjustment better matches derivative losses with the period when the underlying hedged production occurs. During the quarter, net cash outflow related to settled crude oil and natural gas derivative instruments was $141 million.
(c) Unrealized derivative losses and gains that occurred through December 31, 2007 under our previous cash flow hedge accounting method were deferred in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss (AOCL) as of that date. These losses and gains will be reclassified to future earnings as they are realized upon settlement of the associated derivative instrument. The pre-tax amount of deferred losses and gains in AOCL that is associated with instruments that settled in the first quarter was a net loss of $60 million ($97 million loss related to oil and a $37 million gain related to gas ) which will be included in net income as a decrease to oil revenue and an increase to gas revenue, respectively. Since the amounts represent realized derivative losses and gains, the revenue decrease or increase will be reflected in net income and will not be eliminated in determining adjusted net income.
 II. Crude Oil Derivative Instruments
(a) Included in the first quarter pre-tax mark-to-market losses mentioned in I (b) above, $111 million relates to crude oil derivative instruments, of which $104 million was unrealized. During the quarter, net cash outflows related to settled crude oil derivative instruments were $110 million.
(b) Presented below is a comprehensive summary of our crude oil derivative instruments as of March 31, 2008, with notional volumes expressed in barrels (Bbls) per day and prices in dollars per Bbl.  The average price of our crude oil variable to fixed price swap derivative instruments remaining for 2008 is $43.53 per Bbl.  The average floor and ceiling prices of our crude oil costless collar derivative instruments remaining for 2008 are $51.66 and $68.99 per Bbl, respectively.
(c) From December 31, 2007 through March 31, 2008, we entered into additional variable to fixed price swaps covering 2,000 barrels per day for calendar year 2009 and costless collars covering 2,000 barrels per day for calendar 2010.
 
2
 
Crude Oil Derivative Instruments
III. Natural Gas Derivative Instruments
(a) Included in the first quarter  mark-to-market losses mentioned in I(b) above, $126 million relates to natural gas derivative instruments, of which $114 million was unrealized. During the quarter, net cash outflows related to settled natural gas derivative instruments were $31 million.
(b) Presented below is a comprehensive summary of our natural gas derivative instruments as of March 31, 2008, with notional volumes expressed in millions of British thermal units (MMBtu) per day and prices in dollars per MMBtu. The average price of our natural gas variable to fixed price swap derivative instruments remaining for 2008 is $5.43 per MMBtu.  The average floor and ceiling prices of our natural gas costless collar derivative instruments remaining for 2008 are $6.75 and $8.70 per MMBtu, respectively.
(c) From December 31, 2007 through March 31, 2008, we entered into additional costless collars covering 100,000 MMBtu per day for calendar year 2009.
 
3
 
Natural Gas Derivative Instruments
IV. Forward-Looking Statements
This report on Form 8-K contains projections and other forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by use of terms such as believes, expects, anticipates, intends, estimates, projects, target, goal, plans, objective, should or similar expressions or variations on these expressions, and are made based on our current plans, expectations, estimates, assumptions and beliefs concerning future events. No assurances can be given that such events or performance will occur as projected, and actual results may differ materially from those projected. Important factors that could cause the actual results to differ materially from those projected include, without limitation:
 
We caution that forward-looking statements are not guarantees and that actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
4
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
5
 
 
6
 

b
 
Exhibit 99.1
                                                       NEWS RELEASE
 
NOBLE ENERGY ANNOUNCES 8-K FURNISHING WITH
HOUSTON
(April 17, 2008) - Noble Energy, Inc. (NYSE:
NBL
) today announced that it has furnished its mark-to-market commodity derivative results for the first quarter 2008 on a Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  As previously disclosed, the Company voluntarily discontinued cash flow hedge accounting on all existing commodity derivative instruments effective January 1, 2008.  Also included in the 8-K is the Companys commodity derivative hedge positions as of March 31, 2008.
 
In connection with these results, Noble Energy will report adjusted net income in its earnings release scheduled for May 1, 2008, which will exclude the after-tax impact of the unrealized portion of the mark-to-market change in its commodity derivative instruments.
 
The company intends to furnish these derivative results on a regular basis.
 
Noble Energy is one of the nation's leading independent energy companies and operates throughout major basins in the United States including Colorado's Wattenberg field and Piceance basin, the Mid-continent region of western Oklahoma and the Texas Panhandle, the San Juan basin in New Mexico, the Gulf Coast and the deepwater Gulf of Mexico.  In addition, Noble Energy operates internationally in China, Ecuador, the Mediterranean Sea, the North Sea, and West Africa (Equatorial Guinea and Cameroon).  Visit Noble Energy online at .
www.nobleenergyinc.com
:
Contacts
David Larson
281/872-3125   
dlarson@nobleenergyinc.com
 
Brad Whitmarsh
281/872-3187   
bwhitmarsh@nobleenergyinc.com
 
 
This news release may include projections and other forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws.  Any such projections or statements reflect Noble Energys current views about future events and financial performance.  No assurances can be given that such events or performance will occur as projected, and actual results may differ materially from those projected.  Important factors that could cause the actual results to differ materially from those projected include, without limitation, the volatility in commodity prices for oil and gas, the presence or recoverability of
 
 
 
.  These forms can also be obtained from the SEC by calling 1-800-SEC-0330.
estimated reserves, the ability to replace reserves, environmental risks, drilling and operating risks, exploration and development risks, competition, government regulation or other action, the ability of management to execute its plans to meet its goals and other risks inherent in Noble Energys business that are detailed in its Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings.    The United States SEC permits oil and gas companies, in their filings with the SEC, to disclose only proved reserves.  We may use certain terms in this press release, such as resources, estimated resource range, resource potential and potential resources, that the SECs guidelines strictly prohibit us from including in filings with the SEC.  Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosures and risk factors in our Forms 10-K and 10-Q, File No. 1-07964, available from Noble Energys offices or website,
www.nobleenergyinc.com
 
 
2
 
         


