FILE:NBL/NBL-8K-20090624171207.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
(b) Departure of Certain Officers.
     On June 22, 2009, Noble Energy, Inc. (the "Company") announced that Chris Tong, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer announced his retirement from the Company. Mr. Tong will remain with the Company as Senior Vice President to aid in transition until he retires effective August 1, 2009, but will step down as Chief Financial Officer as of June 26, 2009. At this time the Company has not appointed a new Chief Financial Officer, but will announce such appointment following completion of its review of qualified candidates.
     On June 22, 2009, the Company issued a press release announcing Mr. Tong's departure. A copy of the press release issued by the Company is furnished as part of this report and is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
(e) Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
     In connection with Mr. Tong's departure from the Company, and in recognition of his valuable contributions during his tenure at the Company, the Compensation, Benefits and Stock Option Committee of the Company's board of directors approved the following in connection with Mr. Tong's compensation arrangements, subject to execution of a separation agreement containing a general release by Mr. Tong of any claims against the Company:
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
(June 22, 2009)  Noble Energy, Inc. (NYSE: ) announced today that Chris Tong, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, has decided to leave the company effective August 1, 2009. In making this announcement, Mr. Tong has indicated that he currently plans to retire in order to spend more time with his family in addition to pursuing personal interests.
HOUSTON
NBL
Charles D. Davidson, Noble Energy's Chairman and CEO said, "Chris has provided strong leadership to our financial organization since joining Noble Energy at the beginning of 2005. At the time Chris joined our company, we were in the midst of executing a large merger and with his help that merger was completed successfully. Since then, Chris has been instrumental in preparing our financial organizations and related corporate systems for our next phase of significant growth. He has been a key member of our leadership team, and I know that I can speak for all at Noble Energy that his integrity, dedication and friendship will be missed by all of us. We wish him and his family all the best for the future."
The Company announced that a search for a successor to Mr. Tong will begin immediately.
Noble Energy is a leading independent energy company engaged in worldwide oil and gas exploration and production. The Company operates primarily in the Rocky Mountains, Mid-Continent, and deepwater Gulf of Mexico areas in the United States, with key international operations offshore Israel, UK and West Africa. Noble Energy is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and is traded under the ticker symbol NBL. Visit Noble Energy online at .
www.nobleenergyinc.com
: David Larson (281) 872-3125
Contacts
dlarson@nobleenergyinc.com
Brad Whitmarsh (281) 872-3187
bwhitmarsh@nobleenergyinc.com
This news release may include projections and other "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Any such projections or statements reflect Noble Energy's current views about future events and financial performance. No assurances can be given that such events or performance will occur as projected, and actual results may differ materially from those projected.
 
Risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected include, without limitation, the volatility in commodity prices for crude oil and natural gas, the presence or recoverability of estimated reserves, the ability to replace reserves, environmental risks, drilling and operating risks, exploration and development risks, competition, government regulation or other action, the ability of management to execute its plans to meet its goals and other risks inherent in Noble Energy's business that are detailed in its Securities and Exchange Commission filings. Words such as "anticipates," "believes," "expects," "intends," "will," "should," "may," and similar expressions may be used to identify forward-looking statements. Noble Energy assumes no obligation and expressly disclaims any duty to update the information contained herein except as required by law.
This news release may also contain certain forward-looking non-GAAP measures of financial performance that management believes are good tools for internal use and the investment community in evaluating the company's overall financial performance. These non-GAAP measures are broadly used to value and compare companies in the crude oil and natural gas industry.


