FILE:NBL/NBL-8K-20090430174903.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     (c) Appointment of Certain Officers.
     Effective April 28, 2009, the board of directors of Noble Energy, Inc. (the "Company") elected David L. Stover, age 51, as President of the Company in addition to his continuing role as the Company's Chief Operating Officer. As President and COO, Mr. Stover will be responsible for the daily operations of the Company including all exploration, production, drilling and marketing activities.
     Mr. Stover was elected Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company in August 2006, having served as Senior Vice President of North America and Business Development from July 2004 through July 2006. He served as the Company's Vice President of Business Development from December 2002 through June 2004.
     The Company issued a press release announcing Mr. Stover's appointment. A copy of the press release issued by the Company is furnished as part of this report and is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
(April 29, 2009)  Noble Energy, Inc. (NYSE: ) announced today that David L. Stover has been elected as President of the company in addition to continuing to serve as the Chief Operating Officer (COO). As President and COO, Mr. Stover will be responsible for the daily operations of the company including all exploration, production, drilling and marketing activities. Prior to joining Noble Energy in 2002, Mr. Stover held senior management positions with BP and predecessor companies Vastar Resources and ARCO.
HOUSTON
NBL
Charles D. Davidson, Noble Energy's Chairman and CEO said, "Noble Energy has enjoyed tremendous success with its exploration and development programs over the past several years. This success has led to an immense inventory of diversified projects that will drive the growth of the company well into the next decade. With Dave in the role of President as well as COO, he will be working closely with me as we plan for the future in addition to guiding our daily operations and major project development programs so that they fully achieve their objectives. Dave's leadership skills and experience will be invaluable as Noble Energy approaches its next phase of significant growth."
Noble Energy is a leading independent energy company engaged in worldwide oil and gas exploration and production. The Company operates primarily in the Rocky Mountains, Mid-Continent, and deepwater Gulf of Mexico areas in the United States, with key international operations offshore Israel, UK and West Africa. Noble Energy is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and is traded under the ticker symbol NBL. Visit Noble Energy online at
www.nobleenergyinc.com.
: David Larson (281) 872-3125
Contacts
dlarson@nobleenergyinc.com
Brad Whitmarsh (281) 872-3187
bwhitmarsh@nobleenergyinc.com
This news release may include projections and other "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Any such projections or statements reflect Noble Energy's current views about future events and financial performance. No assurances can be given that such events or performance will occur as projected, and actual results may differ materially from those projected. Risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected include, without limitation, the volatility in commodity prices for crude oil and natural gas, the presence or recoverability of estimated reserves, the ability to replace reserves, environmental risks,
 
drilling and operating risks, exploration and development risks, competition, government regulation or other action, the ability of management to execute its plans to meet its goals and other risks inherent in Noble Energy's business that are detailed in its Securities and Exchange Commission filings. Words such as "anticipates," "believes," "expects," "intends," "will," "should," "may," and similar expressions may be used to identify forward-looking statements. Noble Energy assumes no obligation and expressly disclaims any duty to update the information contained herein except as required by law.
This news release may also contain certain forward-looking non-GAAP measures of financial performance that management believes are good tools for internal use and the investment community in evaluating the company's overall financial performance. These non-GAAP measures are broadly used to value and compare companies in the crude oil and natural gas industry.


