FILE:NBL/NBL-8K-20090716163941.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
I. Commodity Price Risk Management
For the quarter and year to date ended June 30, 2009, we anticipate pre-tax losses on commodity derivative instruments of $139 million and $66 million, respectively, from our crude oil and natural gas derivative instruments as presented below.
 
Realized mark-to-market (MTM) gains associated with derivative instruments that hedge current production will be recognized in both net income and adjusted net income reported in our quarterly news release of earnings.  Unrealized MTM losses will be recognized in net income, but will be excluded in determining adjusted net income to better match derivative gains and losses with the period when the underlying hedged production occurs.
 
Cash receipts related to realized MTM gains were partially offset by net deferred losses previously recorded in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss (AOCL) associated with instruments that settled during the periods presented above.  Upon settlement, these deferred losses were reclassified from AOCL to net income as decreases to crude oil revenues, and impact reported realized commodity prices. Unrealized derivative losses and gains that occurred through December 31, 2007 under our previous cash flow hedge accounting method were deferred in AOCL as of that date.  Crude oil and natural gas pre-tax net deferred losses of $45 million and $1 million, respectively, remain in AOCL as of June 30, 2009.  These losses are expected to be recognized as decreases to revenue and will impact reported realized commodity prices during the remainder of 2009 and 2010 as the associated derivative instruments settle.  All other commodity derivative gains or losses subsequent to our voluntary discontinuation of cash flow hedge accounting are recognized as Gain or Loss on Commodity Derivative Instruments, and do not impact reported realized commodity prices.
 
From time to time, we may consider other items in determining adjusted net income.  Adjusted net income should not be considered a substitute for net income as reported in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).  Adjusted net income is provided for comparison to earnings forecasts prepared by analysts and other third parties. Our management believes, and certain investors may find, that adjusted net income is beneficial in evaluating our financial performance.
II. Derivative Instruments
(a) Presented below is a summary of our crude oil derivative instruments as of June 30, 2009, with notional volumes expressed in barrels (Bbls) per day and prices in dollars per Bbl.  
 
2
 
 
From July 1, 2009 to July 16, 2009, we did not enter into any additional crude oil derivative instruments.
 
(b) Presented below is a summary of our natural gas derivative instruments as of June 30, 2009, with notional volumes expressed in millions of British thermal units (MMBtu) per day and prices in dollars per MMBtu.
 
From July 1, 2009 to July 16, 2009, we entered into additional NYMEX HH collars covering 30,000 MMBtu per day for calendar years 2010 and 2011, with weighted average floor and per day for calendar year 2011, with weighted average differential prices for each year of $(0.90).
ceiling prices of $6.00 and $6.41, respectively.  We also entered into additional IFERC CIG for NYMEX HH basis swaps covering 10,000 MMBtu per day for calendar year 2010, and 20,000 MMBtu
 
 
3
 
III. Forward-Looking Statements
This report on Form 8-K contains projections and other forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by use of terms such as may, will, expect, anticipate, estimate and similar words, although some forward-looking statements may be expressed differently. These forward-looking statements are made based upon our current plans, expectations, estimates, assumptions and beliefs concerning future events impacting us and therefore involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Important factors that could cause the actual results to differ materially from those projected include, without limitation:
 
 
We caution that forward-looking statements are not guarantees and that actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. You should consider carefully the statements under Item 1A. Risk Factors included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, and our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2009, which describe factors that could cause our actual results to differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are available on our website at .
www.nobleenergyinc.com
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
4
 


