FILE:NBL/NBL-8K-20091029091220.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On October 29, 2009, Noble Energy, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing results for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2009. A copy of the press release issued by the Company is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
     The Company's press release announcing its financial results for its fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2009 contains non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided quantitative reconciliations within the press release of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
     The information in this Form 8-K and Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to liabilities of that Section.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
(October 29, 2009)  Noble Energy, Inc. (NYSE: ) reported today third quarter 2009 net income of $107 million, or $0.61 per share diluted, on revenues of $621 million. The results were reduced by certain items totaling $86 million after-tax, the largest of which was a previously disclosed unrealized commodity derivative loss. Excluding these items, which are typically not considered by analysts in published estimates, third quarter 2009 adjusted net income was $193 million, or $1.10 per share diluted. For the third quarter of 2008, net income was $974 million, or $5.37 per share diluted, on revenues of $1.1 billion. Adjusted net income for the same period was $395 million, or $2.08 per share diluted.
HOUSTON
NBL
(1)
(1)
Discretionary cash flow for the third quarter 2009 was $499 million, compared to $657 million for the similar quarter in 2008. Net cash provided by operating activities was $488 million and capital expenditures were $224 million.
(1)
Key highlights for the third quarter 2009 include:
"Noble Energy reported very strong results for the quarter with sales volumes up and costs down versus the second quarter this year and the third quarter of 2008. Our diverse product mix, combined with strengthening global liquid prices and record realizations in Israel, were certainly key contributors," said Charles D. Davidson, Noble Energy's Chairman and CEO.
 
Mr. Davidson went on to say, "Initial results from our Texas Haynesville drilling program are very positive, and we anticipate more results in the near future. In addition, we look forward to resuming our deepwater Gulf of Mexico exploration program with drilling to start on two significant tests at Deep Blue and Double Mountain in the fourth quarter. We also made important progress on our long-term growth projects, sanctioning oil projects at Aseng and Isabela/Santa Cruz and moving forward the development plans at Tamar offshore Israel. Our financial and operating results for the quarter provide us with a lot of momentum as we approach the end of the year."
Total sales volumes averaged 217 thousand barrels of oil equivalent per day for the quarter, up three percent from the third quarter of 2008 primarily as a result of increased volumes in the United States and West Africa. Domestically, higher volumes were supported by ongoing development activity at Wattenberg, the return to full production of Ticonderoga, and the impact of the Raton gas project in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico. Greater natural gas volumes in West Africa were largely related to a lesser amount of facility maintenance downtime. North Sea volumes were down from the third quarter 2008 mainly due to Dumbarton performance.
Commodity price realizations for the quarter were down from the similar period last year. The Company's global crude oil and natural gas prices averaged $63.36 per barrel and $2.41 per thousand cubic feet during the third quarter 2009. Third quarter 2009 crude oil realizations were reduced $1.89 and $5.32 per barrel in the United States and West Africa, respectively, as a result of previously deferred hedge losses.
Cash costs, including lease operating, production and ad valorem taxes, transportation, and G&A were $9.22 per barrel of oil equivalent (Boe) for the quarter versus $11.44 per Boe for the same period in 2008. Lease operating expenses (LOE) averaged $4.41 per Boe, down 13 percent from the third quarter of 2008. The majority of the variance in LOE related to continued cost cutting measures, fewer workover activities onshore in the U.S., and reduced process handling fees in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico. Production taxes significantly declined as a result of lower realized commodity prices. G&A expenses also decreased from the prior period related mostly to incentive compensation. In addition, exploration expense was down from the third quarter of 2008 due to continued drilling success and lower seismic expenditures.
 
 
Noble Energy's third quarter 2009 conference call will be available today via live audio webcast at 9:00 a.m. Central Time. To listen, log on to and click on the Investors tab and go to the Investors Events link. Dial in numbers are (888) 437-9276 or (719) 325-2361. The conference call replay will be available on the website until November 30, 2009.
www.nobleenergyinc.com
Noble Energy is a leading independent energy company engaged in worldwide oil and gas exploration and production. The Company operates primarily in the Rocky Mountains, Mid-Continent, and deepwater Gulf of Mexico areas in the United States, with significant international operations offshore Israel and West Africa. Noble Energy is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and is traded under the ticker symbol NBL. Visit Noble Energy online at .
www.nobleenergyinc.com
: David Larson (281) 872-3125
Contacts
dlarson@nobleenergyinc.com
Brad Whitmarsh (281) 872-3187
bwhitmarsh@nobleenergyinc.com
This news release may include projections and other "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Any such projections or statements reflect Noble Energy's current views about future events and financial performance. No assurances can be given that such events or performance will occur as projected, and actual results may differ materially from those projected. Risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected include, without limitation, the volatility in commodity prices for crude oil and natural gas, the presence or recoverability of estimated reserves, the ability to replace reserves, environmental risks, drilling and operating risks, exploration and development risks, competition, government regulation or other action, the ability of management to execute its plans to meet its goals and other risks inherent in Noble Energy's business that are detailed in its Securities and Exchange Commission filings. Words such as "anticipates," "believes," "expects," "intends," "will," "should," "may," and similar expressions may be used to identify forward-looking statements. Noble Energy assumes no obligation and expressly disclaims any duty to update the information contained herein except as required by law.
This news release may also contain certain forward-looking non-GAAP measures of financial performance that management believes are good tools for internal use and the investment community in evaluating the company's overall financial performance. These non-GAAP measures are broadly used to value and compare companies in the crude oil and natural gas industry.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


