FILE:NBL/NBL-8K-20091112172539.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     On November 10, 2009 Noble Energy, Inc. (the "Company") announced that Kenneth M. Fisher will be appointed as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company effective November 16, 2009. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Fisher, age 47, served as Executive Vice President of Finance for Upstream Americas for Royal Dutch Shell plc. Prior to his most recent position with Shell, Mr. Fisher served as Director of Strategy & Business Development for Royal Dutch Shell in The Hague and Executive Vice President of Strategy & Portfolio for Shell's downstream business in London. Mr. Fisher joined Shell in August 2002 as Chief Financial Officer for Shell Oil Products U.S.
     Pursuant to the terms of Mr. Fisher's employment, he will be entitled to receive effective November 16, 2009 (unless otherwise noted):
     The terms of Mr. Fisher's restricted stock award and grant of stock options are dependent upon the trading price of the Company's common stock on Mr. Fisher's effective date of hire and therefore will be disclosed in an amendment to this report on Form 8-K/A. Descriptions of the compensation plans referenced above are included in the Company's Proxy Statement for the 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, filed with the SEC on March 23, 2009.
     The Company issued a press release on November 10, 2009 announcing Mr. Fisher's appointment, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
(November 10, 2009)  Noble Energy, Inc. (NYSE: ) announced today that Kenneth M. Fisher will be joining the company effective November 16, 2009 as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Most recently, Mr. Fisher was Executive Vice President of Finance for Upstream Americas at Shell.
HOUSTON
NBL
Charles D. Davidson, Noble Energy's Chairman and CEO said, "We are extremely pleased that Ken has decided to join our executive team at Noble Energy. His extensive financial and leadership skills as well as his broad experience with large-scale global energy programs will bring tremendous value to Noble Energy as we enter into a very significant multi-year investment program to develop our recent U.S. and international discoveries."
Mr. Fisher, 47, has extensive worldwide experience in leading major financial organizations both within the energy industry as well as other industries. Prior to his most recent position with Shell, he served as Director of Strategy & Business Development for Royal Dutch Shell in The Hague, Executive Vice President of Strategy & Portfolio for their global downstream business in London, and as Chief Financial Officer for Shell Oil Products U.S.
Before joining Shell, Mr. Fisher held positions of increasing responsibility with General Electric Company, including Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Aircraft Engines Services division and a Singapore-based position as Director of Finance & Business Development of GE's Asia Pacific plastics business. He has over 25 years of experience with financial and operating organizations that have been involved with complex energy and capital-intensive businesses. He is a graduate of the University of Notre Dame with a B.B.A. degree in Business Administration/Finance.
Mr. Fisher will fill the position previously held by Chris Tong who retired earlier in the year.
Noble Energy is a leading independent energy company engaged in worldwide oil and gas exploration and production. The Company operates primarily in the Rocky Mountains, Mid-Continent, and deepwater Gulf of Mexico areas in the United States, with key international operations offshore Israel, UK and West Africa. Noble Energy is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and is traded under the ticker symbol NBL. Visit Noble Energy online at .
www.nobleenergyinc.com
:


