FILE:NBL/NBL-8K-20091120121240.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Noble Energy, Inc. (the "Company") hereby files this amendment to the Form 8-K filed by the Company on November 12, 2009 to include additional disclosure under Item 5.02 regarding the terms of the restricted stock award and grant of stock options by the Company to Kenneth M. Fisher. The disclosure under Items 5.02 and 9.01 in the previous report is not affected by this Current Report on Form 8-K/A and is incorporated herein by reference.
     In connection with Mr. Fisher's appointment as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, the Company awarded 35,576 restricted shares of the Company's common stock and granted options to purchase 32,949 shares of the Company's common stock at an exercise price of $67.46 per share to Mr. Fisher, effective November 16, 2009.
     The restricted shares and options were awarded to Mr. Fisher pursuant to the Company's 1992 Stock Option and Restricted Stock Plan, as amended. The specific terms of the restricted share award are governed by a Restricted Stock Agreement dated November 16, 2009 between Mr. Fisher and the Company (a copy of which is attached to this report as Exhibit 10.1). Under the terms of that agreement, Mr. Fisher's restricted shares will vest as follows: 20% on the first anniversary of the award, 30% on the second anniversary and the remaining 50% on the third anniversary. All or a portion of the unvested shares of restricted stock are subject to forfeiture during the restricted period if Mr. Fisher's employment is terminated for any reason other than death or disability. Vesting will accelerate in the event of a change in control of the Company, and up to 50% of the shares of restricted stock will vest if Mr. Fisher is discharged by the Company without cause before the second anniversary of the award. Mr. Fisher has the right to receive dividends or distributions on the shares of restricted stock, although the cash, stock or other securities and other property constituting such dividends or other distributions will be held by the Company during the restricted period and are subject to the same restrictions as the shares to which the dividends or distributions relate.
     The specific terms of the stock option grant will be governed by a Stock Option Agreement dated November 16, 2009 between Mr. Fisher and the Company (the form of which was filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, filed with the SEC on February 7, 2005). Mr. Fisher's options will vest ratably over three years in equal installments (33.33%) on the first, second and third anniversaries of the date of grant. The vesting of the options will accelerate in the event of a change in control of the Company. Vesting of these options is not contingent on any performance criteria, although none of the options may be exercised before the first anniversary (absent a change in control of the Company) or after the tenth anniversary of the date of grant.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1
     THIS AGREEMENT, made and entered into as of the 16 day of November, 2009, by and between NOBLE ENERGY, INC., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and Kenneth M. Fisher ("Employee"),
th
     WHEREAS, the Compensation, Benefits and Stock Option Committee of the Company's Board of Directors (the "Committee"), acting under the Company's 1992 Stock Option and Restricted Stock Plan adopted on January 28, 1992, as amended (the "Plan"), has the authority to award restricted shares of the common stock of the Company to certain employees of the Company or an Affiliate (as defined in the Plan); and
     WHEREAS, pursuant to the Plan the Committee has determined to make such an award to Employee on the terms and conditions and subject to the restrictions set forth in the Plan and this Agreement, and Employee desires to accept such award;
     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and mutual covenants and agreements contained herein, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereby agree as follows:
     1. . On the terms and conditions and subject to the restrictions, including forfeiture, hereinafter set forth, the Company hereby awards to Employee, and Employee hereby accepts, a restricted stock award (the "Award") of shares (the "Restricted Shares") of common stock, par value $3.33 1/3 per share, of the Company. The Award is made effective as of November 16, 2009 (the "Effective Date"). The Restricted Shares shall be issued in book-entry or stock certificate form in the name of Employee as of the Effective Date and delivered to Employee on the Effective Date or as soon thereafter as practicable. Employee shall take all such action as may be requested by the Company to cause the Restricted Shares to be deposited with the Company, together with any executed stock powers and/or other instruments of transfer reasonably requested by the Company, to be held by the Company in escrow for Employee's benefit until such time as the Restricted Shares are either forfeited by Employee to the Company or the restrictions thereon terminate as set forth in this Agreement.
Restricted Stock Award
35,576
     2. .
Vesting and Forfeiture
     (a) Until the third anniversary of the Effective Date, (i) the Restricted Shares shall be subject to being forfeited by Employee to the Company as provided in this Agreement, and (ii) Employee may not sell, assign, transfer, discount, exchange, pledge or otherwise encumber or dispose of any of the Restricted Shares unless the restrictions
 
applicable to such shares have terminated in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement or the Plan.
     (b) If Employee remains employed by the Company or an Affiliate until:
     (1) the first anniversary of the Effective Date, then on such anniversary date 20% of the Restricted Shares (or if such percentage results in a number of shares that includes a fraction, then the next lower whole number of shares) shall become nonforfeitable and the other restrictions applicable hereunder to such shares shall terminate;
     (2) the second anniversary of the Effective Date, then on such anniversary date an additional 30% of the Restricted Shares (or if such percentage results in a number of shares that includes a fraction, then the next lower whole number of shares) shall become nonforfeitable and the other restrictions applicable hereunder to such shares shall terminate; and
     (3) the third anniversary of the Effective Date, then on such anniversary date the remainder of the Restricted Shares shall become nonforfeitable and the other restrictions applicable hereunder to such shares shall terminate.
As soon as practicable (but in no event later than 60 days) after the termination of the restrictions applicable hereunder to a portion of the Restricted Shares, such portion of the Restricted Shares, together with any dividends or other distributions with respect to such shares then being held by the Company pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement, shall be delivered to Employee free of such restrictions.
     (c) If Employee's employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates prior to the third anniversary of the Effective Date by reason of Employee's death or Disability (as defined in Section 2(f)(iii)), the restrictions applicable hereunder to all of the Restricted Shares that are still subject to the restrictions of this Agreement shall terminate, and as soon as practicable (but in no event later than 60 days) after such termination of employment the Restricted Shares, together with any dividends or other distributions with respect to such shares then being held by the Company pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement, shall be delivered to Employee (or in the event of Employee's death, to Employee's estate) free of such restrictions.
     (d) If Employee's employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates prior to the third anniversary of the Effective Date for any reason other than Employee's death or Disability, then on the date of such termination of employment all of the Restricted Shares that are still subject to the restrictions of this Agreement shall be forfeited by Employee and transferred to the Company at no cost to the Company; provided, however, that if prior to the first anniversary of the Effective Date Employee's employment is terminated by action of the Company or an Affiliate for a reason other than for Cause (as defined in Section 2(f)(i)), then upon the date of such termination of employment 50% of the Restricted Shares (or if such percentage results in a number of
 
shares that includes a fraction, then the next lower whole number of shares) shall become nonforfeitable and the other restrictions applicable hereunder to such shares shall terminate, and the remainder of the Restricted Shares that are still subject to the restrictions of this Agreement shall be forfeited by Employee and transferred to the Company at no cost to the Company; provided, further, that if on or after the first anniversary of the Effective Date and prior to the second anniversary of the Effective Date Employee's employment is terminated by action of the Company or an Affiliate for a reason other than for Cause, then upon the date of such termination of employment an additional 30% of the Restricted Shares (or if such percentage results in a number of shares that includes a fraction, then the next lower whole number of shares) shall become nonforfeitable and the other restrictions applicable hereunder to such shares shall terminate, and the remainder of the Restricted Shares that are still subject to the restrictions of this Agreement shall be forfeited by Employee and transferred to the Company at no cost to the Company. As soon as practicable (but in no event later than 60 days) after the termination of the restrictions applicable hereunder to a portion of the Restricted Shares, such portion of the Restricted Shares, together with any dividends or other distributions with respect to such shares then being held by the Company pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement, shall be delivered to Employee free of such restrictions.
     (e) If a Change in Control (as defined in Section 2(f)(ii) hereof) occurs prior to the third anniversary of the Effective Date and while Employee is employed by the Company or an Affiliate, all of the Restricted Shares that are still subject to the restrictions of this Agreement shall become nonforfeitable and the other restrictions applicable hereunder to such shares shall terminate. As soon as practicable (but in no event later than 60 days) after the termination of such restrictions the Restricted Shares (and/or any successor securities or other property attributable to the Restricted Shares that may result from the Change in Control), together with any dividends or other distributions with respect to such shares then being held by the Company pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement, shall be delivered to Employee free of such restrictions.
     (f) For the purposes of this Agreement, transfers of employment without interruption of service between or among the Company and its Affiliates shall not be considered a termination of employment, and the following terms as used herein shall have the following meanings:
     (i) "Cause" shall mean (1) the willful and continued failure by Employee to perform the duties of Employee's position with the Company or an Affiliate or Employee's continued failure to perform the duties reasonably requested or reasonably prescribed by the Board (other than as a result of Employee's death or Disability), (2) the engaging by Employee in conduct involving a material misuse of the funds or property of the Company or an Affiliate, (3) the gross negligence or willful misconduct by Employee in the performance of Employee's duties that results in, or causes, material monetary harm to the Company or an Affiliate, (4) Employee's commission of a felony or a civil or criminal offense involving moral turpitude, or (5) Employee's material violation of the Company's Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. The
 
termination of Employee's employment for Cause shall be made only after reasonable notice to Employee and an opportunity for Employee, together with counsel, to appear before the Board of Directors of the Company. Employee's termination of employment for Cause shall be effective only if agreed upon by a majority of the directors of the Board of Directors of the Company.
     (ii) A "Change in Control" shall be deemed to have occurred if:
          (1) individuals who, as of the date hereof, constitute the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least fifty-one percent (51%) of the Board of Directors of the Company, provided that any person becoming a director subsequent to the date hereof whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be, for purposes of this Agreement, considered as though such person were a member of the Incumbent Board;
          (2) the stockholders of the Company shall approve a reorganization, merger or consolidation, in each case, with respect to which persons who were the stockholders of the Company immediately prior to such reorganization, merger or consolidation do not, immediately thereafter, own outstanding voting securities representing at least fifty-one percent (51%) of the combined voting power entitled to vote generally in the election of directors ("Voting Securities") of the reorganized, merged or consolidated company;
          (3) the stockholders of the Company shall approve a liquidation or dissolution of the Company or a sale of all or substantially all of the stock or assets of the Company; or
          (4) any "person," as that term is defined in Section 3(a)(9) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") (other than the Company, any of its subsidiaries, any employee benefit plan of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, or any entity organized, appointed or established by the Company for or pursuant to the terms of such a plan), together with all "affiliates" and "associates" (as such terms are defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Exchange Act) of such person (as well as any "Person" or "group" as those terms are used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act), shall become the "beneficial owner" or "beneficial owners" (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing in the aggregate twenty-five percent (25%) or more of either (A) the then outstanding shares of common stock, par value $3.33-1/3 per share, of the Company ("Common Stock") or (B) the Voting Securities of the Company, in either such case other than solely as a result of acquisitions of such securities directly from the Company. Without limiting the foregoing, a person who, directly or indirectly, through any contract, arrangement, understanding, relationship or otherwise has or shares the power to vote, or to direct the voting of, or to dispose, or to direct the disposition of, Common Stock or other Voting
 
Securities of the Company shall be deemed the beneficial owner of such Common Stock or Voting Securities.
     Notwithstanding the foregoing, a "Change in Control" of the Company shall not be deemed to have occurred for purposes of subparagraph (4) of this Section 2(f)(ii) solely as the result of an acquisition of securities by the Company which, by reducing the number of shares of Common Stock or other Voting Securities of the Company outstanding, increases (i) the proportionate number of shares of Common Stock beneficially owned by any person to twenty-five percent (25%) or more of the shares of Common Stock then outstanding or (ii) the proportionate voting power represented by the Voting Securities of the Company beneficially owned by any person to twenty-five percent (25%) or more of the combined voting power of all then outstanding Voting Securities; provided, however, that if any person referred to in clause (i) or (ii) of this sentence shall thereafter become the beneficial owner of any additional shares of Common Stock or other Voting Securities of the Company (other than a result of a stock split, stock dividend or similar transaction), then a Change in Control of the Company shall be deemed to have occurred for purposes subparagraph (4) of this Section 2(f)(ii).
     (iii) The "Disability" of Employee shall mean that Employee is disabled, due to sickness, injury or other physical or mental incapacity, and as a result of such disability is entitled to receive disability benefits under the Company's long-term disability insurance plan.
     3. . Subject to the provisions of this Agreement, upon the issuance of the Restricted Shares to Employee, Employee shall become the owner thereof for all purposes and shall have all rights as a stockholder, including voting rights and the right to receive dividends and distributions, with respect to the Restricted Shares. If the Company shall pay or declare a dividend or make a distribution of any kind, whether due to a reorganization, recapitalization or otherwise, with respect to the shares of Company common stock constituting the Restricted Shares, then the Company shall pay or make such dividend or other distribution with respect to the Restricted Shares; provided, however, that with respect to any of the Restricted Shares that are still subject to the restrictions of this Agreement, the cash, stock or other securities and other property constituting such dividend or other distribution pertaining to such Restricted Shares shall be held by the Company subject to the restrictions applicable hereunder to such Restricted Shares until such Restricted Shares are either forfeited by Employee and transferred to the Company or the restrictions thereon terminate as set forth in this Agreement. If the Restricted Shares with respect to which such dividend or distribution was paid or made are forfeited by Employee pursuant to the provisions hereof, then Employee shall not be entitled to receive such dividend or distribution and such dividend or distribution shall likewise be forfeited and transferred to the Company. If the restrictions applicable to the Restricted Shares with respect to which such dividend or distribution was paid or made terminate in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, then Employee shall be entitled to receive such dividend or distribution with respect to such shares, without interest, and such dividend or distribution shall likewise be delivered to Employee.
Rights as Shareholder
 
     4. .
Withholding Taxes
     (a) Employee may elect, within 30 days of the Effective Date and on notice to the Company, to realize income for federal income tax purposes equal to the fair market value of the Restricted Shares on the Effective Date. In such event, Employee shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Company or the appropriate Affiliate to pay in the year of the Award any federal, state or local taxes required to be withheld with respect to such shares. Such arrangements may include, to the extent such arrangements are acceptable to the Company or such Affiliate and do not provide for tax withholding in amounts in excess of the minimum withholding requirements contemplated by SFAS 123(R), the transfer of the Restricted Shares or other shares of Common Stock to the Company or such Affiliate for application to satisfy such withholding requirements on the basis of the Fair Market Value (as defined in the Plan) of such shares on the date of transfer to the Company or such Affiliate. If Employee fails to make such payments, then any provision of this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, the Company and its Affiliates shall, to the extent permitted by law, have the right to deduct from any payments of any kind otherwise due from the Company or an Affiliate to or with respect to Employee, whether or not pursuant to this Agreement, or the Plan and regardless of the form of payment, any federal, state or local taxes of any kind required by law to be withheld with respect to the Restricted Shares.
     (b) If no election is made by Employee pursuant to Section 4(a) hereof, then upon the termination of the restrictions applicable hereunder to the Restricted Shares, Employee (or in the event of Employee's death, the administrator or executor of Employee's estate) will pay to the Company or the appropriate Affiliate, or make arrangements satisfactory to the Company or such Affiliate regarding payment of, any federal, state or local taxes of any kind required by law to be withheld with respect to the Restricted Shares. Such arrangements may include, to the extent such arrangements are acceptable to the Company or such Affiliate and do not provide for tax withholding in amounts in excess of the minimum withholding requirements contemplated by SFAS 123(R), the transfer of the Restricted Shares or other shares of Common Stock to the Company or such Affiliate for application to satisfy such withholding requirements on the basis of the Fair Market Value (as defined in the Plan) of such shares on the date of transfer to the Company or such Affiliate. If Employee (or in the event of Employee's death, the administrator or executor of Employee's estate) fails to make such payments, then any provision of this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, the Company and its Affiliates shall, to the extent permitted by law, have the right to deduct from any payments of any kind otherwise due from the Company or an Affiliate to or with respect to Employee, whether or not pursuant to this Agreement, or the Plan and regardless of the form of payment, any federal, state or local taxes of any kind required by law to be withheld with respect to the Restricted Shares.
     5. . In case of any consolidation or merger of another corporation into the Company in which the Company is the surviving corporation
Reclassification of Shares
 
and in which there is a reclassification or change (including the right to receive cash or other property) of the Restricted Shares (other than a change in par value, or from par value to no par value, or as a result of a subdivision or combination, but including any change in such shares into two or more classes or series of shares), the Committee may provide that payment of the Restricted Shares shall take the form of the kind and amount of shares of stock and other securities (including those of any new direct or indirect parent of the Company), property, cash or any combination thereof receivable upon such consolidation or merger.
     6. . Nothing contained in this Agreement shall confer upon Employee the right to continue in the employment of the Company or an Affiliate, or affect any right which the Company or an Affiliate may have to terminate the employment of Employee.
Effect on Employment
     7. . Any certificate representing the Restricted Shares shall conspicuously set forth on the face or back thereof, in addition to any legends required by applicable law or other agreement, a legend in substantially the following form:
Legend
THE SHARES REPRESENTED BY THIS CERTIFICATE HAVE BEEN ISSUED PURSUANT TO THE TERMS OF THE NOBLE ENERGY, INC. 1992 STOCK OPTION PLAN AND RESTRICTED STOCK PLAN AND MAY NOT BE SOLD, ASSIGNED, TRANSFERRED, DISCOUNTED, EXCHANGED, PLEDGED OR OTHERWISE ENCUMBERED OR DISPOSED OF IN ANY MANNER, EXCEPT AS SET FORTH IN THE TERMS OF THE AGREEMENT EMBODYING THE AWARD OF SUCH SHARES DATED NOVEMBER 16, 2009. A COPY OF SUCH AGREEMENT IS ON FILE IN THE OFFICE OF THE COMPANY.
     8. . The Company may assign all or any portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement. The Award, the Restricted Shares and the rights and obligations of Employee under this Agreement may not be sold, assigned, transferred, discounted, exchanged, pledged or otherwise encumbered or disposed of by Employee other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution.
Assignment
     9. . This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of (i) the Company and its successors and assigns, and (ii) Employee, and Employee's heirs, devisees, executors, administrators and personal representatives.
Binding Effect
     10. . This Agreement may be amended or terminated at any time by an instrument in writing to such effect executed by both parties.
Amendment
     11. . All notices required or permitted to be given or made under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given or made if (i) delivered personally, (ii) transmitted by first class registered or certified United States mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, (iii) sent by prepaid overnight courier service, or (iv) sent by telecopy or facsimile transmission, answer back requested, to the person who is to receive it at the address that such person has theretofore specified by
Notices
 
written notice delivered in accordance herewith. Such notices shall be effective (i) if delivered personally or sent by courier service, upon actual receipt by the intended recipient, (ii) if mailed, upon the earlier of five days after deposit in the mail or the date of delivery as shown by the return receipt therefor, or (iii) if sent by telecopy or facsimile transmission, when the answer back is received. The Company or Employee may change, at any time and from time to time, by written notice to the other, the address that the Company or Employee had theretofore specified for receiving notices. Until such address is changed in accordance herewith, notices under this Agreement shall be delivered or sent (i) to Employee at Employee's address as set forth in the records of the Company, or (ii) to the Company at the principal executive offices of the Company clearly marked "Attention: Lee Robison".
     12. . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Texas without regard to its principles of conflict of laws.
Governing Law
     13. . If any provision of this Agreement is held to be unenforceable, this Agreement shall be considered divisible and such provision shall be deemed inoperative to the extent it is deemed unenforceable, and in all other respects this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect; provided, however, that if any such provision shall be deemed to be so limited and shall be enforceable by limitation thereof, then the provision shall be so limited and shall be enforceable to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law.
Severability
     14. . The parties agree to execute such additional instruments and to take all such further action as may be reasonably necessary to carry out the intent and purposes of this Agreement.
Further Assurances
     15. . This Agreement and Plan set forth the entire agreement between the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof, and supersede all prior agreements and understandings, whether written or oral, between the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof.
Entire Agreement
     16. . The Award, the Restricted Shares and this Agreement are subject to all of the terms and conditions of the Plan as amended from time to time. In the event of any conflict between the terms and conditions of the Plan and those set forth in this Agreement, the terms and conditions of the Plan shall control.
Subject to Plan
     17. . This Agreement may be executed by the parties hereto in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, and all of which shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
     18. . The descriptive headings herein are inserted for convenience of reference only, do not constitute a part of this Agreement, and shall not affect in any manner the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.
Descriptive Headings
 
     19. . The words "this Agreement," "herein," "hereof," "hereby," "hereunder" and words of similar import refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular subdivision unless expressly so limited.
References
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company and Employee have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above.
 
     FOR VALUE RECEIVED and pursuant to that certain Noble Energy, Inc. 1992 Stock Option and Restricted Stock Plan Restricted Stock Agreement dated as of November 16, 2009 (the "Agreement"), the undersigned Employee hereby sells, assigns and transfers unto Noble Energy, Inc., shares of the Common Stock, $3.33 1/3 par value per share, of Noble Energy, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), standing in the undersigned's name on the books of the Company, and does hereby irrevocably constitute and appoint the Secretary of the Company as the undersigned's attorney-in-fact, with full power of substitution, to transfer said stock on the books of the Company. THIS ASSIGNMENT MAY ONLY BE USED AS AUTHORIZED BY THE AGREEMENT.
35,576
Dated: _____________________


