FILE:NBL/NBL-8K-20090730090903.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On July 30, 2009, Noble Energy, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing results for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2009. A copy of the press release issued by the Company is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
     The Company's press release announcing its financial results for its fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2009 contains non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided quantitative reconciliations within the press release of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
     The information in this Form 8-K and Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to liabilities of that Section.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
(July 30, 2009)  Noble Energy, Inc. (NYSE: ) reported today a second quarter 2009 net loss of $57 million, or $0.33 per share diluted, on revenues of $491 million. The results included an unrealized mark-to-market financial hedging loss, a gain on the completed 2008 Argentina asset sale, and various other items which reduced earnings in total $173 million after-tax. Excluding these items, which are typically not considered by analysts in published estimates, second quarter 2009 adjusted net income was $116 million, or $0.66 per share diluted. For the same period in 2008, the Company reported a net loss of $144 million, or $0.84 per share diluted, on revenues of $1.2 billion. Adjusted net income for the second quarter 2008 was $337 million, or $1.93 per share diluted.
HOUSTON
NBL
(1)
(1)
Discretionary cash flow for the second quarter 2009 was $374 million, compared to $685 million for the same period in 2008. Net cash provided by operating activities was $313 million and capital expenditures were $323 million.
(1)
Key highlights for the second quarter 2009 include:
"Second quarter 2009 results were very encouraging for Noble Energy, as we benefited from our leverage to strengthening liquid markets, while continuing to move forward our long-term developments. Critical progress was made in each of our three major project areas, which we expect will deliver significant growth for our Company beginning in 2011. We recently sanctioned the Aseng oil development in Equatorial Guinea and announced a very successful appraisal well at Tamar offshore Israel. In the near-term, we continue to see a challenged natural gas market in the U.S.;
 
however, the benefits of our diversified portfolio should show up in the second half of the year with nice volume growth expected from our international assets," said Noble Energy's Chairman and CEO, Charles D. Davidson.
Total sales volumes averaged 206 thousand barrels of oil equivalent per day (MBoe/d) for the quarter, down five percent from the same period in 2008. Production was 207 MBoe/d in the current period. United States volumes were down, primarily in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, due to the impact of ongoing hurricane shut-ins and natural decline in field production.
International volumes declined versus the second quarter 2008, with the timing of liftings in the North Sea contributing to the decrease. In addition, power plant downtime, overall economic factors, and increased imports resulted in lower volumes in Israel. West Africa volumes were higher due to greater natural gas sales to the third-party liquefied natural gas facility.
Second quarter 2009 commodity price realizations were down significantly from the same quarter last year. Crude oil and condensate averaged $52.05 per barrel and natural gas averaged $2.13 per thousand cubic feet.
Cash costs, including lease operating, production and ad valorem taxes, transportation, and SG&A were $10.08 per barrel of oil equivalent (Boe) for the quarter, down seven percent versus the second quarter of 2008. Lower production taxes more than offset higher lease operating expenses (LOE). Depreciation, depletion, and amortization (DD&A) was up six percent to $10.46 per Boe. DD&A unit costs were impacted by higher rates, primarily onshore in the United States, as well as changes in the Company's volume mix.
 
Noble Energy's second quarter 2009 conference call will be available today via live audio webcast at 9:00 a.m. Central Time. To listen, log on to and click on the Investors tab and go to the Investors Events link. Dial in numbers are (877) 856-1965 or (719) 325-4810. The conference call replay will be available until August 31, 2009. To access the replay, go to and click on the Investors tab and go to the Investors Events link. You can also access the replay by dialing (888) 203-1112 or (719) 457-0820. The pin code is 2546931.
www.nobleenergyinc.com
www.nobleenergyinc.com
Noble Energy is a leading independent energy company engaged in worldwide oil and gas exploration and production. The Company operates primarily in the Rocky Mountains, Mid-Continent, and deepwater Gulf of Mexico areas in the United States, with significant international operations offshore
 
Israel, UK and West Africa. Noble Energy is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and is traded under the ticker symbol NBL. Visit Noble Energy online at .
www.nobleenergyinc.com
: David Larson (281) 872-3125
Contacts
dlarson@nobleenergyinc.com
Brad Whitmarsh (281) 872-3187
bwhitmarsh@nobleenergyinc.com
This news release may include projections and other "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Any such projections or statements reflect Noble Energy's current views about future events and financial performance. No assurances can be given that such events or performance will occur as projected, and actual results may differ materially from those projected. Risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected include, without limitation, the volatility in commodity prices for crude oil and natural gas, the presence or recoverability of estimated reserves, the ability to replace reserves, environmental risks, drilling and operating risks, exploration and development risks, competition, government regulation or other action, the ability of management to execute its plans to meet its goals and other risks inherent in Noble Energy's business that are detailed in its Securities and Exchange Commission filings. Words such as "anticipates," "believes," "expects," "intends," "will," "should," "may," and similar expressions may be used to identify forward-looking statements. Noble Energy assumes no obligation and expressly disclaims any duty to update the information contained herein except as required by law.
This news release may also contain certain forward-looking non-GAAP measures of financial performance that management believes are good tools for internal use and the investment community in evaluating the company's overall financial performance. These non-GAAP measures are broadly used to value and compare companies in the crude oil and natural gas industry.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


