FILE:NBL/NBL-8K-20090420194859.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
I. Price Risk Management
(a) For the quarter ended March 31, 2009, we anticipate pre-tax mark-to-market (MTM) derivative gains of $73 million from our crude oil and natural gas derivative instruments as presented below.
 
The realized MTM amounts that are associated with derivative instruments that hedge current production will be recognized in both net income and adjusted net income reported in our quarterly news release of earnings.  The unrealized MTM gains or losses will be recognized in net income, but will be excluded in determining adjusted net income to better match derivative gains and losses with the period when the underlying hedged production occurs.  The current period unrealized gains or losses relate to derivative instruments that hedge our production in future months.  The settlement of previously recognized unrealized gains represents the portion of current period derivative settlements that were recognized as unrealized gains in prior periods.
From time to time, we may consider other items in determining adjusted net income.  Adjusted net income should not be considered a substitute for net income as reported in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).  Adjusted net income is provided for comparison to earnings forecasts prepared by analysts and other third parties. Our management believes, and certain investors may find, that adjusted net income is beneficial in evaluating our financial performance.
(b) For the quarter ended March 31, 2009, a pre-tax net deferred loss of $17 million was associated with instruments that settled during the quarter as presented below.  This deferred loss was reclassified from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss (AOCL) to net income as a decrease to crude oil and natural gas revenues. This decrease to revenues will also be recognized in adjusted net income. Unrealized derivative losses and gains that occurred through December 31, 2007 under our previous cash flow hedge accounting method were deferred in AOCL as of that date.    Crude oil and natural gas pre-tax net deferred losses of $60 million and $1 million, respectively, remain in AOCL as of March 31, 2009 and are expected to be recognized in earnings during the remainder of 2009 and 2010 as the associated derivative instruments settle.  For the quarter ended March 31, 2009, net cash inflow related to settled crude oil and natural gas derivative instruments was $136 million which is also presented below.
 
II. Derivative Instruments
(a) Presented below is a summary of our crude oil derivative instruments as of March 31, 2009, with notional volumes expressed in barrels (Bbls) per day and prices in dollars per Bbl.  
 
2
 
From April 1, 2009 to April 17, 2009 we entered into additional NYMEX WTI collars covering 3,000 Bbls per day for calendar year 2010 with weighted average floor and ceiling prices of $60.00 and $70.00, respectively.
 
(b) Presented below is a summary of our natural gas derivative instruments as of March 31, 2009, with notional volumes expressed in millions of British thermal units (MMBtu) per day and prices in dollars per MMBtu.
 
From April 1, 2009 to April 17, 2009, we entered into additional NYMEX HH collars covering 80,000 MMBtu per day for calendar year 2010 with weighted average floor and ceiling prices of $5.81 and $6.83, respectively.  We also entered into additional NYMEX HH collars covering 60,000 MMBtu per day for calendar year 2011 with weighted average floor and ceiling prices of $5.83 and $6.94, respectively.  From April 1, 2009 to April 17, 2009, we did not enter into any additional basis swaps.
 
 
3
 
 
III. Forward-Looking Statements
This report on Form 8-K contains projections and other forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by use of terms such as may, will, expect, anticipate, estimate and similar words, although some forward-looking statements may be expressed differently. These forward-looking statements are made based upon our current plans, expectations, estimates, assumptions and beliefs concerning future events impacting us and therefore involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Important factors that could cause the actual results to differ materially from those projected include, without limitation:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We caution that forward-looking statements are not guarantees and that actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. You should consider carefully the statements under Item 1A. Risk Factors included in our 2008 annual report on Form 10-K, which describe factors that could cause our actual results to differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. Our 2008 annual report on Form 10-K is available on
our website at www.nobleenergyinc.com.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
4
 


