FILE:NBL/NBL-8K-20090112103730.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
          On January 12, 2009, the Delek Group, an affiliate of Delek Drilling, which is one of Noble Energy, Inc.'s partners in the Tamar 1 prospect in offshore northern Israel, issued a press release regarding drilling status at that prospect. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
          The information contained in this Item 7.01 and Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to liabilities of that Section.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
(hereinafter: "the Company") reported that its subsidiary Delek Energy Ltd. (held 88.87%) published a immediate report yesterday January 11 2009 that according to Noble Energy Mediterranean, the operator of the Tamar-1' drilling operation, has informed the partners of the Joint Venture (that includes Company subsidiaries Delek Drilling L.P. and Avner Oil Exploration L.P.) that the Tamar-1 well (hereinafter: "well") has reached a depth of 4,900 meters and that the preparation for logging is underway.
Tel Aviv, January 12, 2009. Delek Group (TASE: DLEKG)
An initial analysis of the information gathered while drilling the well, indicates that the intersected layers include natural gas bearing sands.
It shall be noted that at this stage, all information is based on initial indications only, and, as of yet, no determination can be made regarding whether the drilling has resulted in the discovery of a natural gas reservoir and/or the extent of the reservoir, and/or its commercial viability.
Upon completion of the logging stage, conduction of which is expected to last a number of days, a notice will be issued containing the initial results of such logs, and the Joint Venture partner's decision regarding whether to proceed with production tests.
It shall be noted that the interest in the well are held as follows:
THIS IS A SUMMARY OF THE HEBREW ANNOUNCEMENT ISSUED TO THE TEL AVIV STOCK EXCHANGE ON JANUARY 11, 2009.
About The Delek Group
The Delek Group is one of the leading and most prominent and dynamic investment groups in Israel.
The Delek Group is diversified into the following three major subsidiaries:


