FILE:NBL/NBL-8K-20101028090609.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     On October 28, 2010, Noble Energy, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing results for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2010. A copy of the press release issued by the Company is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
     The Company's press release announcing its financial results for its fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2010 contains non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided quantitative reconciliations within the press release of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
     The information in this Form 8-K and Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to liabilities of that Section.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
(October 28, 2010)  Noble Energy, Inc. (NYSE: ) reported today third quarter 2010 net income of $232 million, or $1.31 per share diluted, on revenues of $755 million. Net income for the quarter included an unrealized commodity derivative gain, a gain on the sale of certain non-core assets, as well as an asset impairment charge. Excluding these items, which would typically not be considered by analysts in published estimates, third quarter 2010 adjusted net income was $225 million, or $1.27 per share diluted. The Company reported net income of $107 million during the third quarter of 2009, or $0.61 per share diluted, on revenues of $621 million. Adjusted net income for the third quarter of 2009 was $193 million, or $1.10 per share diluted.
HOUSTON
NBL
(1)
(1)
Discretionary cash flow for the third quarter 2010 was $485 million compared to $499 million for the similar quarter in 2009. Net cash provided by operating activities was $608 million. Organic capital expenditures for the third quarter of 2010 were $619 million, which excluded a non-cash accrual for construction progress on the Aseng FPSO.
(1)
Key highlights for the third quarter of 2010 include:
 
Charles D. Davidson, Noble Energy's Chairman and CEO, commented, "It was an outstanding quarter for Noble Energy, with significant results in all areas of our business. Strong liquid production in the Central DJ basin, deepwater Gulf of Mexico, and the North Sea, along with record natural gas volumes in Israel, delivered robust financial results. Operationally, we continued to progress the major project developments in all four of our core areas. We advanced our horizontal Niobrara drilling program in the Central DJ Basin and were able to perform completion activities in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico at Galapagos, despite the offshore Moratorium. In addition, our international teams furthered the development work at Aseng and sanctioned the Tamar project. All of the Company's efforts are maintaining this strong momentum as we move towards a future of sustained production and cash flow growth."
Noble Energy's sales volumes for the third quarter of 2010 averaged 230 MBoe/d. Total Company production was 232 MBoe/d, exceeding sales for the quarter as a result of the timing of international oil liftings. For the third quarter of 2010, the mix of sales volumes was 38 percent global liquids, 33 percent international natural gas, and 29 percent U.S. natural gas.
Onshore U.S. volumes totaled 100 MBoe/d for the quarter versus 93 MBoe/d in the same quarter last year, with the majority of the increase attributable to higher crude oil and natural gas liquids from the Central DJ basin. Total Central DJ basin volumes grew to 55 MBoe/d in the third quarter 2010, with liquids increasing to 54 percent of total volumes. Continued development of Wattenberg and the horizontal Niobrara play, along with the asset acquisition earlier in 2010, accounted for the increases. The closed asset sale of mature oil assets reduced onshore U.S. volumes by nearly 3 MBoe/d in the third quarter 2010. Offshore U.S. volumes were 20 MBoe/d, down slightly as a result of lower natural gas production in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico at Raton and Swordfish. Total U.S. volumes were 120 MBoe/d for the third quarter 2010, up four percent from a year ago.
Internationally, average daily sales were up eight percent from the third quarter 2009 to 110 MBoe/d. Strengthened market and seasonal demand led to a 24 percent increase in natural gas sales in Israel. Crude oil volumes in the North Sea were significantly higher, primarily as a result of increased deliverability at the Dumbarton complex, which included the addition of two Lochranza wells in 2010. At the Alba field in Equatorial Guinea, liquid sales were lower due to the timing of liftings, which resulted in an underlifted position for the third quarter 2010 of nearly 4 MBoe/d.
 
Third quarter 2010 commodity prices were up significantly from the 2009 period. The Company's global crude oil averaged $73.41 per barrel, up 16 percent. Natural gas realizations in the U.S. averaged $3.87 per thousand cubic feet (Mcf) versus $3.05 per Mcf in the third quarter 2009. Natural gas liquid pricing in the U.S. averaged $36.30 per barrel for the third quarter of 2010, representing 51 percent of the Company's average U.S. crude oil realization.
Total production costs per barrel of oil equivalent (Boe), including lease operating expenses, production and ad valorem taxes, and transportation were relatively flat with the third quarter of 2009 at under $6.70 per Boe. Lease operating and transportation expenses averaged $4.49 and $0.80 per Boe, respectively, for the third quarter 2010. Depreciation, depletion, and amortization per Boe was $10.92 for the third quarter 2010, up slightly as a result of increased sales volumes in the DJ basin and the North Sea. General and administrative expenses were up due to increased staffing for the development of the Company's major projects.
Other operating income/expense for the third quarter 2010 includes a $13 million pre-tax gain on the sale of a portion of the Company's interest in the White Cliffs pipeline that transports crude oil from Platteville, Colorado to Cushing, Oklahoma. Included in other income/expense is a $15 million pre-tax deferred compensation charge relating to the quarterly value change of Noble Energy stock held in a benefit program.
The adjustment items to net income for the third quarter 2010 include a $5 million pre-tax gain on the mark-to-market of unsettled commodity derivatives, as well as a $114 million pre-tax gain on the sale of certain Mid-Continent and Illinois basin assets that closed in the period. Offsetting these items was a $100 million asset impairment, primarily related to onshore U.S. developments at Iron Horse and the New Albany shale.
Noble Energy increased its 2010 annual volume guidance range to between 214 and 217 MBoe/d, which represents the upper half of the Company's prior guidance. Strong sales volumes year-to-date have resulted in the increase. The Company expects fourth quarter 2010 volumes to average 212 to 222 MBoe/d. In the U.S., volumes will be impacted by the onshore divestiture for a full quarter, as well as natural declines in the Mid-Continent and onshore Gulf Coast areas. Central DJ basin volumes should be modestly higher than the third quarter. Oil volumes in Equatorial Guinea will likely be higher as compared to the underlifted third quarter. In addition, North Sea oil volumes should be slightly
 
lower and natural gas sales in Israel are expected to be reduced due to seasonal demands. All other annual guidance metrics remain unchanged.
Noble Energy, Inc. will host its third quarter 2010 webcast and conference call at 9:00 a.m. Central time today. The webcast is accessible on the Investors' page at . Conference call numbers for participation are 877-545-1403 and 719-325-4746. A replay will be available on the website.
www.nobleenergyinc.com
Noble Energy is a leading independent energy company engaged in worldwide oil and gas exploration and production. The Company operates primarily in the Rocky Mountains, Mid-Continent, and deepwater Gulf of Mexico areas in the United States, with significant international operations offshore Israel and West Africa. Noble Energy is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and is traded under the ticker symbol NBL.
: David Larson (281) 872-3125   
Contacts
dlarson@nobleenergyinc.com
Brad Whitmarsh (281) 872-3187   
bwhitmarsh@nobleenergyinc.com
This news release includes projections and other "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Such projections and statements reflect Noble Energy's current views about future events and financial performance. No assurances can be given that such events or performance will occur as projected, and actual results may differ materially from those projected. Risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected include, without limitation, the volatility in commodity prices for crude oil and natural gas, the presence or recoverability of estimated reserves, the ability to replace reserves, environmental risks, drilling and operating risks, exploration and development risks, competition, government regulation or other action, the ability of management to execute its plans to meet its goals and other risks inherent in Noble Energy's business that are detailed in its Securities and Exchange Commission filings. Words such as "anticipates," "believes," "expects," "intends," "will," "should," "may," and similar expressions may be used to identify forward-looking statements. Noble Energy assumes no obligation and expressly disclaims any duty to update the information contained herein except as required by law.
This news release may also contain certain forward-looking non-GAAP measures of financial performance that management believes are good tools for internal use and the investment community in evaluating the Company's overall financial performance. These non-GAAP measures are broadly used to value and compare companies in the crude oil and natural gas industry. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosures and risk factors in our Forms 10-K and 10-Q, File No. 1-07964, available from Noble Energy's offices or website,
http://www.nobleenergyinc.com
. These forms can also be obtained from the SEC by calling 1-800-SEC-0330.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
See Schedule 1, Reconciliation of Net Income (Loss) to Adjusted Earnings.
[1]
The table above reconciles discretionary cash flow to net cash provided by operating activities. While discretionary cash flow is not a GAAP measure of financial performance, our management believes it is a useful tool for evaluating our overall financial performance. Among our management, research analysts, portfolio managers and investors, discretionary cash flow is broadly used as an indicator of a company's ability to fund exploration and production activities and meet financial obligations. Discretionary cash flow is also commonly used as a basis to value and compare companies in the oil and gas industry.
[2]
 
The amounts in accumulated other comprehensive loss represent deferred unrealized hedge gains and losses. These deferred gains and losses are recognized as an adjustment to revenue when the associated derivative instruments are cash settled.
[1]


