FILE:NBL/NBL-8K-20110428090210.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On April 28, 2011, Noble Energy, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing results for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2011. A copy of the press release issued by the Company is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
     The Company's press release announcing its financial results for its fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2011 contains non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided quantitative reconciliations within the press release of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
     The information in this Form 8-K and Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to liabilities of that Section.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
(April 28, 2011)  Noble Energy, Inc. (NYSE: ) reported today first quarter 2011 net income of $14 million, or $0.08 per share diluted, on revenues of $899 million. The Company's first quarter 2010 net income was $237 million, or $1.34 per share diluted, on revenues of $733 million. First quarter 2011 net income includes items that are not typically considered by analysts in published estimates. Excluding the impact of these items, which were primarily unrealized commodity derivative losses and a rig standby charge in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, first quarter 2011 adjusted net income was $240 million, or $1.35 per share diluted. Adjusted net income for the first quarter of 2010 was $138 million, or $0.78 per share diluted.
HOUSTON
NBL
(1)
(1)
Discretionary cash flow for the first quarter 2011 was $576 million, compared to $447 million for the similar quarter in 2010. Net cash provided by operating activities was $484 million, and capital expenditures were $545 million.
(1)
(2)
Key highlights for the first quarter 2011 include:
Charles D. Davidson, Noble Energy's Chairman and CEO, commented, "Noble Energy's first quarter has delivered a great start to 2011. With high liquid volumes and pricing, combined with good cost
 
control, the business generated very strong cash flow. Our balance sheet was further fortified with a successful debt offering, and as a result, the Company is in a very strong position. Operationally, we remain focused on delivering production and cash flow growth from our base of discovered resources and major project developments. We are excited to have active investment programs ongoing in all four of our core areas, including development of our major projects, as well as exploration, appraisal, and development drilling underway throughout our global portfolio."
Total sales volumes for the first quarter 2011 averaged 215 MBoe/d. Approximately 40 percent of the Company's sales volumes were liquids, with 31 percent international natural gas, and the remainder U.S. natural gas. Production volumes were 216 MBoe/d.
The Company's international sales volumes were 101 MBoe/d, a 25 percent increase versus the first quarter 2010. Lower facility maintenance downtime and higher liquid liftings in Equatorial Guinea resulted in a 15 MBoe/d increase. Natural gas sales in Israel were up 61 percent to 140 million cubic feet per day (MMcf/d), with the higher volumes attributable to increased overall demand for natural gas in power generation, as well as the impact of lower competing imports. In the North Sea, strong performance and additional deliverability at Dumbarton and Lochranza accounted for increased oil volumes. The Company's 2010 volumes included 30 MMcf/d of natural gas in Ecuador, where the Company's production sharing contract was terminated in late 2010.
Noble Energy's U.S. volumes were 114 MBoe/d for the first quarter of 2011. Winter storms reduced the Company's onshore U.S. volumes in the first quarter 2011 by nearly 2 MBoe/d on average. In addition, U.S. volumes do not include the approximately 6 MBoe/d of Mid-continent and Illinois basin oil assets which were sold in the third quarter 2010. In the DJ basin, first quarter 2011 volumes averaged over 56 MBoe/d, up 12 percent from the first quarter 2010. The increase is primarily attributed to ongoing vertical and horizontal drilling at Wattenberg, as well as the impact of the asset acquisition that closed in the first quarter last year. The Company experienced natural declines in various onshore natural gas plays and the deepwater Gulf of Mexico versus the first quarter last year.
Global crude oil pricing averaged $97.15 per barrel for the first quarter 2011, up 31 percent from the same period last year. Natural gas realizations in the U.S. averaged $4.07 per thousand cubic feet (Mcf), down from $5.46 per Mcf in the first quarter 2010. In Israel, natural gas realizations continue to benefit from strong global liquid markets, with pricing averaging $4.19 per Mcf. Natural gas liquid pricing in the U.S. averaged $47.80 per barrel, or 52 percent of the Company's average U.S. crude oil realization.
 
Total production costs per barrel of oil equivalent (Boe), including lease operating expenses, production and ad valorem taxes, and transportation were down 6 percent from the first quarter of 2010 to $7.34 per Boe. Lease operating expense was $4.75 per Boe and depreciation, depletion, and amortization was $11.42 per Boe. The Company's mix of production, with higher volumes in low-cost areas such as Equatorial Guinea and Israel, contributed to lower per unit rates versus the first quarter last year.
Exploration expense for the first quarter 2011 included $26 million of seismic expenditures, including data acquisitions in the DJ basin, offshore Nicaragua and offshore France. General and administrative expenses were up primarily related to increased staffing for the development of the Company's major development projects. The Company's adjusted effective tax rate and deferred portion were both 34 percent for the first quarter 2011.
Other operating income/expense includes an $18 million rig standby charge incurred as a result of the time required to obtain deepwater Gulf of Mexico drilling permits post the moratorium. Included in other income/expense for the first quarter 2011 is a $10 million deferred compensation charge relating to the quarterly value change of Noble Energy stock held in a benefit program.
The Company's original volume guidance for full year 2011 remains unchanged. Noble Energy expects second quarter 2011 volumes to average 208 to 218 MBoe/d. Utilizing the midpoint of the range, United States volumes should be fairly flat versus the first quarter, with growth from the DJ basin development programs offsetting natural declines in the onshore natural gas and offshore areas. International volumes are anticipated to be slightly lower as a result of planned downtime in the North Sea and Equatorial Guinea.
Noble Energy has modified its full year interest expense guidance to range from $50 to $60 million as a result of the recent debt offering. In addition, the Company's adjusted effective tax rate for the year is now estimated to be 34 to 38 percent, driven by tax changes in the UK and Israel. All other annual guidance metrics remain within the original ranges.
 
Noble Energy, Inc. will host a webcast and conference call at 9:00 a.m. Central time today. The webcast is accessible on the Investors' page at . Conference call numbers for participation are 800-479-9001 and 719-457-2601, passcode 9871975. A replay will be available on the website.
www.nobleenergyinc.com
Noble Energy is a leading independent energy company engaged in worldwide oil and gas exploration and production. The Company has core operations onshore in the U.S., primarily in the DJ basin, in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, offshore Eastern Mediterranean, and offshore West Africa. Noble Energy is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and is traded under the ticker symbol NBL. Further information is available at .
www.nobleenergyinc.com
: David Larson
Contacts
(281) 872-3125
dlarson@nobleenergyinc.com
Brad Whitmarsh (281) 872-3187
bwhitmarsh@nobleenergyinc.com
This news release includes projections and other "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Such projections and statements reflect Noble Energy's current views about future events and financial performance. No assurances can be given that such events or performance will occur as projected, and actual results may differ materially from those projected. Risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected include, without limitation, the volatility in commodity prices for crude oil and natural gas, the presence or recoverability of estimated reserves, the ability to replace reserves, environmental risks, drilling and operating risks, exploration and development risks, competition, government regulation or other action, the ability of management to execute its plans to meet its goals and other risks inherent in Noble Energy's business that are detailed in its Securities and Exchange Commission filings. Words such as "anticipates," "believes," "expects," "intends," "will," "should," "may," and similar expressions may be used to identify forward-looking statements. Noble Energy assumes no obligation and expressly disclaims any duty to update the information contained herein except as required by law. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosures and risk factors in our Forms 10-K and 10-Q, File No. 1-07964, available from Noble Energy's offices or website,
http://www.nobleenergyinc.com
. These forms can also be obtained from the SEC by calling 1-800-SEC-0330.
This news release also contains certain non-GAAP measures of financial performance that management believes are good tools for internal use and the investment community in evaluating the Company's overall financial performance. These non-GAAP measures are broadly used to value and compare companies in the crude oil and natural gas industry.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


