FILE:NBL/NBL-8K-20110818080528.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
     On August 18, 2011, Noble Energy, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing a strategic partnership with CONSOL Energy, Inc. in the Marcellus Shale. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report and is hereby incorporated by reference in this Item 7.01.
     The Company has scheduled a webcast and conference call to discuss the press release for August 18, 2011 at 8:00 a.m. Central Time. The webcast and accompanying slide presentation (which is furnished as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report and is hereby incorporated by reference in this Item 7.01) are accessible by going to the Company's website, www.nobleenergyinc.com, and selecting the "Investors" tab. Conference call numbers are 877-627-6581 and 719-325-4820, passcode 9416724. A replay will be available on the website. Information contained on the Company's website is not incorporated by reference into this Current Report.
     In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information contained in this Item 7.01 or in Exhibit 99.1 or Exhibit 99.2 shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall such information and exhibits be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
(August 18, 2011)  Noble Energy, Inc. (NYSE: ) announced today it has signed definitive agreements which create a joint venture partnership with CONSOL Energy, Inc. (NYSE: ) for the development of their Marcellus Shale properties in southwest Pennsylvania and northwest West Virginia.
HOUSTON
NBL
CNX
Under the arrangement, Noble Energy will purchase a 50 percent interest in 663,350 net undeveloped acres for $1.07 billion, payable in three equal annual installments beginning at closing. In addition, the Company will fund $2.13 billion of CONSOL's future drilling and completion costs. This funding obligation is expected to extend over an eight-year period and is limited to one third of CONSOL's drilling and completion costs with an annual cap of $400 million and a suspension of disproportionate funding at natural gas prices below $4 per million British thermal unit (MMBtu). The acreage value of $3.2 billion equates to a discounted present value of $7,100 per net acre. Noble Energy will also acquire a 50 percent interest in 70 million cubic feet equivalent per day (MMcfe/d) of existing Marcellus production and infrastructure for $219 million. The payments are anticipated to be funded from cash on hand and the Company's currently undrawn revolving credit facility. The effective date of the transaction is July 1, 2011. Closing is expected to occur by the end of September 2011, subject to customary adjustments and conditions.
Key operational aspects of the joint venture include:
 
Charles D. Davidson, Noble Energy's Chairman and CEO, commented, "Noble Energy is excited about the opportunity to establish a position in the Marcellus Shale, which is considered to be one of the most economically attractive developments in North America due to its enormous resource potential, its proximity and access to premium markets, and its competitive cost structure. This transaction will complement and further strengthen our U.S. portfolio by adding a high-quality asset with a substantial growth profile. The Marcellus, combined with our ongoing developments in the DJ basin and deepwater Gulf of Mexico, will provide important balance to our rapidly expanding international programs. Spreading the transaction costs over an extended time horizon creates better partner alignment on investment decisions and maintains our strong balance sheet."
David L. Stover, President and COO, added, "Noble Energy is fortunate to be partnering with CONSOL, a well-known and respected Appalachian operator. The joint oversight and operations are designed to create value through the sharing of best practices and expertise. Both companies are committed to operating in a safe, environmentally responsible manner while maintaining a good working relationship with the local communities."
J. Brett Harvey, CONSOL's Chairman and CEO, commented, "We are extremely pleased to have Noble Energy as our partner in the Marcellus. Noble Energy is a world-class operator that shares CONSOL's dedication to safety and compliance and they bring a strong technical and operational expertise to this partnership. This agreement will benefit the regional economy, the communities in which we operate, our employees, and our respective companies. Together we will be able to accelerate the development of this significant resource safely, efficiently and economically."
 
Noble Energy has scheduled a webcast and conference call to discuss this release for this morning, August 18, 2011 at 8:00 a.m. Central Time. The webcast and accompanying slide presentation are accessible by going to Noble Energy's website www.nobleenergyinc.com and selecting the "Investors" tab. Conference call numbers are 877-627-6581 and 719-325-4820, passcode 9416724. A replay will be available on the website.
Noble Energy is a leading independent energy company engaged in worldwide oil and gas exploration and production. The Company has core operations onshore in the U.S., primarily in the DJ Basin, in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, offshore Eastern Mediterranean, and offshore West Africa. Noble Energy is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and is traded under the ticker symbol NBL. Further information is available at www.nobleenergyinc.com.
: David Larson (281) 872-3125 dlarson@nobleenergyinc.com
Contact
This news release includes projections and other "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Such projections and statements reflect Noble Energy's current views about future events and financial performance. No assurances can be given that such events or performance will occur as projected, and actual results may differ materially from those projected. Risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected include, without limitation, the timing to close the transaction, the failure to satisfy closing conditions to the transaction, Noble Energy's ability to achieve the benefits contemplated by the transaction, the diversion of management time on transaction-related issues, the volatility in commodity prices for crude oil and natural gas, the presence or recoverability of estimated reserves, drilling and operating risks, exploration and development risks, government regulation or other action, the ability of management to execute its plans to meet its goals, competition, the ability to replace reserves, environmental risks and other risks inherent in Noble Energy's business that are detailed in its Securities and Exchange Commission filings. Words such as "anticipates," "believes," "expects," "intends," "will," "should," "may," and similar expressions may be used to identify forward-looking statements. Noble Energy assumes no obligation and expressly disclaims any duty to update the information contained herein except as required by law.
www.nobleenergyinc.com
Cautionary Note to Investors  The Securities and Exchange Commission prohibits oil and gas companies, in their filings with the SEC, from disclosing estimates of oil or gas resources other than "reserves," as that term is defined by the SEC. We use certain terms in this news release, such as "risked resources," which describe quantities of oil and gas that may not meet the SEC's definitions of proved, probable and possible reserves, and which the SEC's guidelines strictly prohibit us from including in filings with the SEC. These estimates are by their nature more speculative than estimates of proved reserves and accordingly are subject to substantially greater risk of being recovered by us. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosures and risk factors in our Forms 10-K and 10-Q, File No. 1-07964, available from Noble Energy's offices or website,
. These forms can also be obtained from the SEC by calling 1-800-SEC-0330.

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


