FILE:NBL/NBL-8K-20111020094735.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On October 20, 2011, Noble Energy, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing results for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2011. A copy of the press release issued by the Company is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
     The Company's press release announcing its financial results for its fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2011 contains non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided quantitative reconciliations within the press release of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
     The information in this Form 8-K and Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to liabilities of that Section.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
(October 20, 2011)  Noble Energy, Inc. (NYSE: ) reported today third quarter 2011 net income of $441 million, or $2.39 per share diluted, on revenues of $924 million. The Company's third quarter 2010 net income was $232 million, or $1.31 per share diluted, on revenues of $755 million. Net income for the third quarter 2011 includes unrealized commodity derivative gains and other items. Excluding these items, third quarter 2011 adjusted net income was $234 million, or $1.24 per share diluted. Adjusted net income for the third quarter of 2010 was $225 million, or $1.27 per share diluted.
HOUSTON
NBL
(1)
(1)
Discretionary cash flow for the third quarter 2011 was $588 million, compared to $500 million for the similar quarter in 2010. Net cash provided by operating activities was $556 million, and capital expenditures were $738 million.
(1)
(2)
Key highlights for the third quarter 2011 include:
 
Charles D. Davidson, Noble Energy's Chairman and CEO, commented, "It was an outstanding quarter for Noble Energy as we reported record volumes from the DJ basin, along with record natural gas sales in Israel. We expect a strong finish to 2011 as our activity continues to accelerate in the horizontal Niobrara play, and we integrate our newly established core position in the Marcellus shale. The fourth quarter should also see first oil production from the Aseng project in Equatorial Guinea and the Raton South development in the Gulf of Mexico. In addition, we anticipate well results from several impactful exploration opportunities. This positive outlook for the fourth quarter together with performance to date has led us to raise production guidance for the second time this year, which now is expected to exceed the top end of our original guidance range."
The Company's total sales volumes for the third quarter 2011 averaged 224 MBoe/d. Production volumes were 223 MBoe/d, with the difference attributable to an overlifted position of crude oil and condensate in Equatorial Guinea. Excluding the 2010 sale of certain onshore U.S. assets and the impact of the Company's exit from Ecuador, sales volumes were up slightly from the third quarter 2010.
International sales volumes were 111 MBoe/d, up from the third quarter last year even with the termination of the Company's activities in Ecuador. Strong power generation demand and lower competing imports led to a significant increase in natural gas sales in Israel. In Equatorial Guinea, liquid sales were higher largely due to the timing of liftings in the third quarters of 2011 and 2010. In the North Sea, volumes were negatively impacted by maintenance downtime at the GPIII floating production vessel. The Company's 2010 volumes included 28 MMcf/d of natural gas in Ecuador, where its production sharing contract was terminated in late 2010.
Noble Energy's U.S. volumes were 113 MBoe/d for the third quarter of 2011, down versus the prior year period as a result of the 2010 sale impact of approximately 4 MBoe/d of Mid-continent and Illinois basin oil assets and natural declines in various onshore U.S. and Deepwater Gulf of Mexico assets. In the DJ basin, quarterly volumes were up significantly from the same period in 2010 with the continued acceleration of the Company's vertical and horizontal drilling programs in Wattenberg.
The Company's barrel of oil equivalent (Boe) realizations were up 11 percent for the third quarter 2011 versus 2010 driven by higher prices for crude oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas. International natural gas as a percentage of total Company volumes grew to 36 percent for the third quarter 2011, with global liquids representing 37 percent, and U.S. natural gas dropping to 27 percent.
 
Total production costs per Boe, including lease operating expenses, production and ad valorem taxes, and transportation were $7.42 per Boe, up approximately 11 percent from the third quarter 2010. The increase was largely attributable to higher production and ad valorem taxes caused by stronger commodity prices. The other components were up slightly compared to 2010 with lease operating expense at $4.76 per Boe and transportation at $0.82 per Boe for the third quarter 2011. Depreciation, depletion, and amortization was unchanged at $10.92 per Boe. Exploration expense included the remaining dry hole cost associated with the Kora well and higher surrendered lease charges. General and administrative expenses were up primarily related to increased staffing for the Company's major development projects and exploration activities. Noble Energy's adjusted effective tax rate was 44 percent, with 26 percent deferred. Income taxes for the third quarter 2011 were impacted by a $46 million retroactive charge for the United Kingdom tax rate increase.
Other income/expense for the third quarter includes an $18 million deferred compensation income item relating to the quarterly value change of Noble Energy stock held in a benefit program.
Noble Energy has raised its full year 2011 sales volume guidance to range from 220 to 222 MBoe/d to reflect the strong year-to-date performance from each of its core operating areas, as well as the impact of the Marcellus joint venture. For the fourth quarter 2011, the Company expects sales volumes to average 226 to 234 MBoe/d which includes 10 MBoe/d from the Marcellus. Onshore U.S. volumes should be up versus the third quarter, with the addition of the Marcellus position and growth from the DJ basin offsetting natural declines in other onshore natural gas areas. The deepwater Gulf of Mexico is expected to remain relatively flat with Raton South coming online late in the quarter. Despite better operational performance in the North Sea and the early start up of Aseng in Equatorial Guinea, international volumes are anticipated to decrease in the fourth quarter mainly due to lower seasonal demand for natural gas in Israel. All other annual guidance metrics remain within their previous ranges.
 
Noble Energy, Inc. will host a webcast and conference call at 9:00 a.m. Central time today. The webcast is accessible on the Investors' page at . Conference call numbers for participation are 877-857-6151 and 719-325-4797, passcode 5564745. A replay will be available on the website.
www.nobleenergyinc.com
Noble Energy is a leading independent energy company engaged in worldwide oil and gas exploration and production. The Company has core operations onshore in the U.S., primarily in the DJ basin and Marcellus shale, in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, offshore Eastern Mediterranean, and offshore West Africa. Noble Energy is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and is traded under the ticker symbol NBL. Further information is available at .
www.nobleenergyinc.com
Contacts
David Larson (281) 872-3125
dlarson@nobleenergyinc.com
Eric Schneider (281) 872-2640
eschneider@nobleenergyinc.com
This news release includes projections and other "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Such projections and statements reflect Noble Energy's current views about future events and financial performance. No assurances can be given that such events or performance will occur as projected, and actual results may differ materially from those projected. Risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected include, without limitation, the volatility in commodity prices for crude oil and natural gas, the presence or recoverability of estimated reserves, the ability to replace reserves, environmental risks, drilling and operating risks, exploration and development risks, competition, government regulation or other action, the ability of management to execute its plans to meet its goals and other risks inherent in Noble Energy's business that are detailed in its Securities and Exchange Commission filings. Words such as "anticipates," "believes," "expects," "intends," "will," "should," "may," and similar expressions may be used to identify forward-looking statements. Noble Energy assumes no obligation and expressly disclaims any duty to update the information contained herein except as required by law. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosures and risk factors in our Forms 10-K and 10-Q, File No. 1-07964, available from Noble Energy's offices or website, . These forms can also be obtained from the SEC by calling 1-800-SEC-0330.
http://www.nobleenergyinc.com
This news release also contains certain non-GAAP measures of financial performance that management believes are good tools for internal use and the investment community in evaluating the Company's overall financial performance. These non-GAAP measures are broadly used to value and compare companies in the crude oil and natural gas industry.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


