FILE:NBL/NBL-8K-20121025083538.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
October 25, 2012
 
NOBLE ENERGY, INC.
(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)
 
Registrants telephone number, including area code: (281) 872-3100
(Former name, former address and former fiscal year, if changed since last report)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On
October 25, 2012
, Noble Energy, Inc. (the Company) issued a press release announcing results for the fiscal quarter ended
September 30, 2012
. A copy of the press release issued by the Company is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The Companys press release announcing its financial results for its fiscal quarter ended
September 30, 2012
contains non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a companys performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided quantitative reconciliations within the press release of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
The information in this Form 8-K and Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to liabilities of that Section.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
INDEX TO EXHIBITS
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
NOBLE ENERGY ANNOUNCES THIRD QUARTER 2012 RESULTS
HOUSTON
(October 25, 2012) -- Noble Energy, Inc. (NYSE:
NBL
) reported today third quarter 2012 net income of $221 million, or $1.23 per share diluted, and net income from continuing operations
(1)
of $164 million, or $0.91 per share diluted. Excluding the impact of unrealized commodity derivative losses and certain other items, third quarter 2012 adjusted net income from continuing operations
(2)
was $167 million, or $0.93 per share diluted. Net income from continuing operations for the third quarter 2011 was $491 million, or $2.67 per share diluted and adjusted net income from continuing operations
(2)
was $191 million, or $1.01 per share diluted.
Discretionary cash flow from continuing operations
(2)
for the third quarter 2012 was a record $714 million, compared to $563 million for the same quarter in 2011. Net cash provided by operating activities was $924 million, and capital expenditures were $724 million.
Key highlights for the third quarter 2012 include:
Charles D. Davidson, Noble Energy's Chairman and CEO, commented, Strong liquids growth in both the DJ Basin and Gulf of Mexico contributed to our standout performance this quarter. Discretionary cash flow grew to a record level, up 27 percent over the comparable period last year, driven by a 42 percent increase in crude oil sales. Despite the impact of Hurricane Isaac in the Gulf of Mexico and unscheduled third party downtime in the DJ Basin, volumes grew by eight percent over last quarter and 11 percent year over year. Our major international projects at Tamar and Alen remain on schedule, and we expect to initiate sales from Tamar in less than six months.
Third quarter 2012 sales volumes from continuing operations totaled 242 thousand barrels of oil equivalent per day (MBoe/d), up 11 percent from the third quarter 2011. Production volumes from continuing operations for the quarter were 247 MBoe/d, with the difference attributable to the timing of crude oil liftings in Equatorial Guinea. Sales volumes of crude oil and natural gas liquids increased 42 percent and 10 percent respectively, while natural gas declined 3 percent. Overall volumes consisted of 35 percent crude oil, 10 percent natural gas liquids, 25 percent international natural gas and 30 percent domestic natural gas.
U.S. sales volumes were 141 MBoe/d, up 25 percent from the third quarter last year. The growth was primarily attributable to the acceleration of the Company's horizontal drilling program in the DJ Basin, the addition of the Marcellus Shale and the startup of Galapagos in the Gulf of Mexico. Divestments and natural production declines in non-core onshore properties offset a portion of the gains.
International sales volumes totaled 101 MBoe/d for the quarter, down five percent from the same period last year. The impact was primarily driven by lower natural gas sales in Israel partially offset by strong operational performance of the Aseng field in Equatorial Guinea.
The average realized price for crude oil and condensate was $99.30 per barrel for the third quarter, up three percent from the prior year period. Natural gas realizations in the U.S. averaged $2.61 per thousand cubic feet (Mcf) and $4.43 per Mcf in Israel. Natural gas liquids pricing in the U.S. averaged $29.71 per barrel, which equates to 32 percent of the average price for West Texas Intermediate (WTI - NYMEX) crude oil.
Total production costs per barrel of oil equivalent (Boe), including lease operating expense (LOE), production and ad valorem taxes, and transportation and gathering expenses were $7.10 per Boe, up slightly from the third quarter of 2011. LOE was $4.63 per Boe and depreciation, depletion, and amortization (DD&A) was $16.53 per Boe. The unit rates were impacted mostly by the growing contribution from new high-value crude oil production in the Gulf of Mexico and West Africa. Exploration
expense includes leasehold costs associated with our exit from Senegal and dry hole cost associated with the Trema well, offshore Cameroon. The Company's adjusted effective tax rate for the third quarter 2012 was 33 percent, with 60 percent deferred.
OPERATIONS UPDATE
In the DJ Basin, the horizontal development program delivered strong performance in the third quarter with net production reaching 31 MBoe/d, a 29 percent increase from the second quarter of 2012. Total basin net volumes averaged 75 MBoe/d of which 59 percent was comprised of crude oil and other liquids. Production this quarter was adversely effected by 5 MBoe/d related to third-party processing plant downtime and hot weather. During the quarter, 57 horizontal wells were completed, up from the 43 wells last quarter. Three recent extended-reach lateral wells have been online over 60 days and are tracking a 750 MBoe type curve. In a new development area in Northern Colorado, 11 wells are online producing 5,500 Boe/d with 80 percent oil content. Three of the wells, part of an 80-acre pilot test, have 30-day production rates averaging 720 Boe/d. Operated rig count is expected to end the year at eight rigs with three working in the extension area and two in the core area of Wattenberg, and the remaining three in northern Colorado.
In the Marcellus Shale, activity continued to be focused in the highest return areas of the play. Volumes for the quarter were up 38 percent from the previous quarter and averaged 102 million cubic feet equivalent per day (MMcfe/d) net. Wet gas production began from the Company's first pad, SHL-1, in late July and the SHL-3 pad in early September. Both liquid yield, which ranged from 65 to 80 barrels per million cubic feet, and natural gas rates were higher than expected from these pads. With the addition of two new-build rigs, operated rig count stands at three, two in the Majorsville area and one delineating a large JV acreage position in the Normantown area of West Virginia. In the dry gas area, our partner is operating two rigs in southwest Pennsylvania and continues completion operations in central Pennsylvania and Northern West Virginia.
In the Gulf of Mexico, production was shut-in for several weeks related to Hurricane Isaac lowering third quarter volumes by nearly 7 MBoe/d to an average of 21 MBoe/d. The Company's Gulf of Mexico production has returned to pre-hurricane levels. Big Bend, an exploration well located on Mississippi Canyon 698, commenced drilling in September and is expected to reach total depth before year end.
In West Africa, the Aseng field produced an average of 64 thousand barrels per day (MBbl/d) or 22 MBbl/d net for the quarter, with minimal downtime. The Alba field performed as expected and had one lifting in the third quarter versus two in the second quarter. Overall underlifting for the third quarter was 5 MBbl/d in West Africa.
In the Eastern Mediterranean, Noa and Pinnacles performed better than expected and, combined with Mari-B, average production for the quarter was 116 million cubic feet per day (MMcf/d) net. The Tamar platform left Corpus Christi en route to Israel for installation in the fourth quarter and is on schedule to begin sales in less than six months.
UPDATED GUIDANCE
Noble Energy expects fourth quarter 2012 volumes to average 248 to 252 MBoe/d. In the U.S., crude oil volumes will be up from the third quarter 2012 with continued activity in the DJ Basin. Domestic natural gas and natural gas liquids will be reduced by the onshore divestments that closed in the third quarter. Internationally, crude oil volumes in Equatorial Guinea will be higher as compared to the underlifted third quarter while natural gas sales in Israel and Equatorial Guinea are expected to be down slightly.
The Company provided the following fourth quarter cost guidance:
Lease Operating Expense ($/Boe)
        
5.15 - 5.45
DD&A ($/Boe)
                    
17.10 - 17.60
Exploration Expense ($MM)
            
160 - 200
        
SUPPLEMENTAL OPERATIONS INFORMATION
For additional information on Noble Energy's operations, please refer to the third quarter earnings slides that are accessible on the 'Investors' page at
www.nobleenergyinc.com
.
WEBCAST AND CONFERENCE CALL INFORMATION
Noble Energy, Inc. will host a webcast and conference call at 9:00 a.m. Central time today. The webcast is accessible on the 'Investors' page at
www.nobleenergyinc.com
. Conference call numbers for participation are 888-438-5493 and 719-457-2081, passcode 6437891. A replay will be available on the website.
Noble Energy is a leading independent energy company engaged in worldwide oil and gas exploration and production. The Company has core operations onshore in the U.S., primarily in the DJ Basin and Marcellus Shale, in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, offshore Eastern Mediterranean, and offshore West Africa. Noble Energy is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and is traded under the ticker symbol NBL. Further information is available at
www.nobleenergyinc.com
.
Investor Contacts
David Larson
(281) 872-3125
dlarson@nobleenergyinc.com
Eric Schneider, CFA
(281) 872-2640
eschneider@nobleenergyinc.com
Media Inquiries
Communications and Government Relations
(281) 876-8873
media@nobleenergyinc.com
This news release contains certain non-GAAP measures of financial performance that management believes are good tools for internal use and the investment community in evaluating the company's overall financial performance. These non-GAAP measures help facilitate comparison of company operating performance across periods and with peer companies.
This news release contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the safe
harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as anticipates, believes, expects, intends, will, should, may, and similar expressions may be used to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are not statements of historical fact and reflect Noble Energy's current views about future events. They include estimates of oil and natural gas reserves and resources, estimates of future production, planned drilling activity, future results of operations, projected cash flow and liquidity, business strategy and other plans and objectives for future operations. No assurances can be given that the forward-looking statements contained in this news release will occur as projected, and actual results may differ materially from those projected. Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, estimates and assumptions that involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. These risks include, without limitation, the volatility in commodity prices for crude oil and natural gas, the presence or recoverability of estimated reserves, the ability to replace reserves, environmental risks, drilling and operating risks, exploration and development risks, competition, government regulation or other actions, the ability of management to execute its plans to meet its goals and other risks inherent in Noble Energy's business that are discussed in its most recent annual report on Form 10-K and in other reports on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These reports are also available from Noble Energy's offices or website,
http://www.nobleenergyinc.com
. Forward-looking statements are based on the estimates and opinions of management at the time the statements are made. Noble Energy does not assume any obligation to update forward-looking statements should circumstances or management's estimates or opinions change.
Schedule 1
Noble Energy, Inc.
Reconciliation of Net Income to Adjusted Earnings from Continuing Operations
(in millions, except per share amounts, unaudited)
 
 
Schedule 2
Noble Energy, Inc.
Summary Statement of Operations
(in millions, except per share amounts, unaudited)
 
Schedule 3
Noble Energy, Inc.
Volume and Price Statistics
(unaudited)
 
Schedule 4
Noble Energy, Inc.
Condensed Balance Sheets
(in millions, unaudited)
 
Schedule 5
Noble Energy, Inc.
Discretionary Cash Flow from Continuing Operations and Reconciliation to Operating Cash Flow
(in millions, unaudited)
 
 
Schedule 6
Noble Energy, Inc.
Effect of Commodity Derivative Instruments
(in millions, unaudited)
 
Schedule 7
Noble Energy, Inc.
Discontinued Operations
(in millions, except volume amounts, unaudited)
 


