FILE:NBL/NBL-8K-20120815172028.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): August 13, 2012
 
NOBLE ENERGY, INC.
(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)
 
Registrants telephone number, including area code: (281) 872-3100
(Former name, former address and former fiscal year, if changed since last report)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 2.01. Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets.
On August 13, 2012, Noble Energy, Inc. (Noble Energy, we or us) completed the previously announced sale with Maersk Oil North Sea Limited of certain assets located in the UK sector of the North Sea. The sale included our 30% non-operated working interest in the Dumbarton and Lochranza properties. The cash purchase price totaled approximately $129 million prior to customary adjustments for net cash flows between the effective date of January 1, 2012 and the closing date.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(b)    Pro Forma Financial Information
The unaudited pro forma consolidated financial statements of Noble Energy have been derived from our historical consolidated financial statements and are being presented to give effect to the sale of our Dumbarton and Lochranza properties located in the UK sector of the North Sea. The unaudited pro forma consolidated balance sheet as of June 30, 2012, and the unaudited pro forma consolidated statements of operations of Noble Energy for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, and the related notes thereto, are furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
(d)     Exhibits. The following exhibit is furnished as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K:
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
INDEX TO EXHIBITS
 

Exhibit 99.1
Noble Energy, Inc.
Unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Financial Statements
The unaudited pro forma consolidated financial statements of Noble Energy, Inc. have been derived from our historical consolidated financial statements and are being presented to give effect to the sale of our Dumbarton and Lochranza properties located in the UK sector of the North Sea. The unaudited pro forma consolidated balance sheet as of June 30, 2012 has been prepared as though the sale occurred on June 30, 2012. The unaudited pro forma consolidated statements of operations for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 have been prepared as though the sale occurred on January 1, 2009. We have not provided an unaudited pro forma consolidated statement of operations for the six months ended June 30, 2012, because the results of the Dumbarton and Lochranza properties were included within discontinued operations in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2012.
The following unaudited pro forma consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with our historical financial statements and accompanying notes.
The unaudited pro forma consolidated financial statements are for illustrative purposes only, and do not reflect what our financial position and results of operations would have been had the sale occurred on the dates indicated and are not necessarily indicative of our future financial position and future results of operations.
1
Noble Energy, Inc.
Unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Balance Sheets
(millions)
June 30, 2012
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
2
Noble Energy, Inc.
Unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Statements of Operations
(millions, except per share amounts)
Year Ended December 31, 2011
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
3
Noble Energy, Inc.
Unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Statements of Operations
(millions, except per share amounts)
Year Ended December 31, 2010
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
4
Noble Energy, Inc.
Unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Statements of Operations
(millions, except per share amounts)
Year Ended December 31, 2009
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
5
Noble Energy, Inc.
Notes to Unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Financial Statements
Note 1. Basis of Presentation
On August 13, 2012, Noble Energy, Inc. (Noble Energy, we or us) sold its 30% working interest in the Dumbarton and Lochranza properties located in the UK sector of the North Sea. The effective date of the sale is January 1, 2012. Therefore the proceeds from the sale were adjusted downward for the net cash flows of the properties between the effective date of January 1, 2012 and the closing date.
The accompanying unaudited pro forma consolidated balance sheet has been prepared to give effect to the divestiture as if it had occurred on June 30, 2012 while the unaudited pro forma consolidated statements of operations have been prepared to give effect to the divestiture as if it had occurred on January 1, 2009.
Note 2. Pro Forma Adjustments
The unaudited pro forma consolidated financial statements reflect the following adjustments:
(a) To adjust for the proceeds, estimated closing adjustments and transaction costs. Information regarding these adjustments is as follows:
(b) To adjust for the assets sold and associated liabilities along with the estimated gain on divestiture. Information regarding these adjustments is as follows:
(c) To adjust all periods presented to reflect the operations of our Dumbarton and Lochranza properties as discontinued. Our long-term debt is recorded at the consolidated level; therefore, no interest expense has been allocated to our discontinued Dumbarton and Lochranza properties.
6


