FILE:ADSK/ADSK-8K-20031120164412.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
 
On November 20, 2003, Autodesk, Inc. issued a press release reporting its results for the three and nine months ended October 31, 2003. The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
 
This information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: November 20, 2003
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
autodesk
 
Press Release
 
 
 
 
Autodesk, Inc. (NASDAQ: ADSK), the world's leading design software and digital content company, today announced that revenue for its fiscal third quarter ended October 31, 2003 totaled $234 million, a 10 percent sequential increase, compared to $212 million reported in the second quarter of fiscal 2004. Compared to the same quarter in the prior year, revenues increased 24 percent, from $189 million.
SAN RAFAEL, Calif., Nov. 20, 2003
 
Third quarter net income was $22.6 million or $0.20 per diluted share on a GAAP basis. There were no adjustments to GAAP basis accounting in the quarter. Non-GAAP net income in the second quarter of fiscal 2004 was $12.9 million or $0.11 per diluted share, excluding a one-time tax benefit of $19.7 million. GAAP basis net income in the second quarter of fiscal 2004 was $32.6 million or $0.29 per diluted share. Net income was $5.8 million or $0.05 per diluted share, for the third quarter from the previous year, excluding restructuring and other charges totaling $13.3 million. GAAP basis net loss was $3.9 million or $0.03 per diluted share in the third quarter of the prior year.
 
A reconciliation of the above non-GAAP net income and EPS amounts to the corresponding GAAP net income and EPS amounts is provided at the end of this press release.
 
"Contrary to our normal seasonal slowdown in the third quarter, Autodesk increased revenues 10 percent and operating profitability by 100 percent sequentially," said Carol Bartz, Autodesk chairman and CEO. "Each of our lines of business turned in a strong performance. Today's results clearly demonstrate that our strategies are working, our products are being well received, and most importantly, our customers are satisfied."
 
Autodesk's solid performance was driven by another quarter of strong acceptance of the AutoCAD 2004 family of products, the continued success of its subscription program, and the company's commitment to improving profitability. As a result, Autodesk achieved record third quarter revenue.
 
The AutoCAD 2004 family of products continued to be well accepted during the quarter. As the products gained traction in the market, total AutoCAD-based upgrade revenue increased 50 percent to $44 million, and new seats of AutoCAD-based products were 48,600, a 46 percent sequential increase. Additionally, record numbers of customers migrated to the company's high end vertical-specific products, illustrating that customers are looking to Autodesk for a complete set of solutions.
 
During the quarter, Autodesk launched three key enhancements to its subscription program, demonstrating the company's commitment to its customersWeb support direct from Autodesk, e-learning and multi-year contracts. These features address three of the most common requests from customers. The success of the subscription program will be a key factor in improving the predictability and the profitability of the business model in the future. Subscription revenue was 14 percent of total revenue for the Design Solutions Group. Deferred subscription revenue grew to $66 million.
 
The company continued to deliver on its commitment to improve profitability. Despite an increase in operating expenses directly related to improved performance, the company's operating margins improved substantially, increasing 5 percentage points sequentially to 12 percent.
 
"We had a terrific performance during the quarter and expect to maintain this momentum," said Bartz. "Continuing improvements to the depth and breadth of our product line, including the new version of Inventor 8, and a full set of products that will release throughout fiscal 2005, will provide increasing momentum in the market. With this strong product position and our firm focus on improving profitability, we have never felt more confident heading into the final quarter of a fiscal year."
 
Business Outlook
 
The following statements are forward looking statements, involving risks and uncertainties, and are based on current expectations. Factors that could cause net revenue to differ materially from our expectations include further weakening of the economies where we do business, lack of momentum in upgrade or subscription revenue, and foreign currency fluctuations. Factors that could cause earnings and earnings per share to differ materially from our expectations include failure to achieve anticipated revenue levels, the inability to quickly adjust our cost structure to current revenue levels, interest rates, share count and unanticipated costs.
 
Q4 Fiscal 2004
 
Net revenues for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004 are expected to be in the range of $245 million to $255 million. Earnings per diluted share for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2004 are expected to be in the range of $0.27 to $0.32.
 
Q1 Fiscal 2005
 
Net revenues for the first quarter of fiscal 2005 are expected to be in the range of $215 million to $225 million. Earnings per diluted share for the first quarter of fiscal year 2005 are expected to be in the range of $0.08 to $0.13.
 
Full Year Fiscal 2005
 
For 2005, annual revenue is expected to be in the range of $940 million to $975 million with EPS in the range of $0.90 to $1.10. Fourth quarter fiscal 2005 operating margins are expected to be in the mid-20 percent range. This positions the company to achieve its target 18 to 20 percent operating margins for subsequent annual periods.
 
Safe Harbor Statement
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. In addition to the factors discussed above, factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include the following: general market and business conditions, failure to achieve anticipated levels of customer acceptance of key new applications, failure to achieve sufficient sell-through in our channels for new or existing products, pricing pressure, failure to achieve anticipated cost reductions, delays in the release of new products and services, failure to achieve continued success in technology advancements,
 
changes in accounting rules, failure to successfully integrate new or acquired businesses, financial and business condition of our reseller and distribution channels, renegotiation or termination of royalty or intellectual property arrangements, and failure to grow lifecycle management or collaboration products.
 
Further information on potential factors that could affect the financial results of Autodesk are included in the company's report on Form 10-K, for the year ended January 31, 2003, and form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 31, 2003, which are on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Autodesk will host a conference call at 312-470-0197 (password: Autodesk) today and an audio webcast on the third quarter results beginning at 5:00 p.m. Eastern Time at www.Autodesk.com/investor. A replay of this webcast will be maintained on our website for at least twelve months.
 
About Autodesk
 
Autodesk is the world's leading design software and digital content company, offering customers progressive business solutions through powerful technology products and services. Autodesk helps customers in the building, manufacturing, infrastructure, digital media, and wireless data services fields increase the value of their digital design data and improve efficiencies across their entire project lifecycle management processes. For more information, contact any Authorized Autodesk Reseller, call Autodesk at 800-964-6432, or visit www.autodesk.com. Discreet
product information is available at 800-869-3504 or via the Web at www.discreet.com.
 
 
Autodesk, AutoCAD, Autodesk Inventor, Discreet and the Autodesk logo are registered trademarks, of Autodesk, Inc., in the United States and/or other countries. All other brand names, product names, or trademarks belong to their respective holders.
Copyright 2003 Autodesk, Inc. All rights reserved.
 
Autodesk, Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Operations
 
(In thousands, except per share data)
 
Autodesk, Inc.
Pro Forma Consolidated Statements of Income
(See pro forma adjustments listed in the tables below)
(In thousands, except per share data)
 
 
To supplement our consolidated financial statements presented on a GAAP basis, Autodesk uses pro forma measures of operating results, net income and income per share, which are adjusted to exclude certain costs, expenses, gains and losses we believe appropriate to enhance an overall understanding of our past financial performance and also our prospects for the future. These adjustments to our GAAP results are made with the intent of providing both management and investors a more complete understanding of Autodesk's underlying operational results and trends and our marketplace performance. For example, the pro forma results are an indication of our baseline performance before gains, losses or other charges that are considered by management to be outside of our core operating results. In addition, these adjusted pro forma results are among the primary indicators management uses as a basis for our planning and forecasting of future periods. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for net income or diluted net income per share prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
Autodesk, Inc.
Pro Forma Consolidated Statements of Income
(See pro forma adjustments listed in the tables below)
(In thousands, except per share data)
 
 
To supplement our consolidated financial statements presented on a GAAP basis, Autodesk uses pro forma measures of operating results, net income and income per share, which are adjusted to exclude certain costs, expenses, gains and losses we believe appropriate to enhance an overall understanding of our past financial performance and also our prospects for the future. These adjustments to our GAAP results are made with the intent of providing both management and investors a more complete understanding of Autodesk's underlying operational results and trends and our marketplace performance. For example, the pro forma results are an indication of our baseline performance before gains, losses or other charges that are considered by management to be outside of our core operating results. In addition, these adjusted pro forma results are among the primary indicators management uses as a basis for our planning and forecasting of future periods. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for net income or diluted net income per share prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
Autodesk, Inc.
Consolidated Balance Sheets
(In thousands)
 
 
Autodesk, Inc.
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
(In thousands)
 
 
AUTODESK
 


