FILE:ADSK/ADSK-8K-20030522163354.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure (pursuant to Item 12)
 
In accordance with SEC Release No. 33-8216, the following information, intended to be furnished under "Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition," is instead furnished under "Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure."
 
On May 22, 2003, Autodesk, Inc. issued a press release reporting its results for the three months ended April 30, 2003. The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
 
This information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: May 22, 2003
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Press Release
 
 
 
 
 
Autodesk, Inc. (NASDAQ: ADSK), the world's leading design software and digital content company, today announced that revenue for its fiscal first quarter ended April 30, 2003 increased eight percent sequentially to $211 million compared to $196 million reported in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003. Net revenues were $229 million in the first quarter of fiscal year 2002. First quarter net income was $7.5 million or $0.07 per diluted share compared to net income of $6.4 million or $0.06 per share for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003. Net income for the same quarter a year ago was $17.6 million or $0.15 per diluted share.
SAN RAFAEL, Calif., May 22, 2003
 
Autodesk's sequential quarter growth was fueled by three factors: strong product releases, 28 percent revenue growth in the Discreet division, reflecting an improved media and entertainment market, and continued momentum of the subscription program. During the quarter, Autodesk unveiled the strongest product lineup in its 21 year history.
 
"Our eight percent sequential revenue growth is an excellent start to fiscal 2004," said Carol Bartz, Autodesk chairman and CEO. "These results confirm that our new releases provide customers with the increased productivity and quick return on investment that they demand."
 
Increased productivity continues to be the main driver for customer adoption as demonstrated by four percent sequential revenue growth in the Design Solutions Group. Autodesk is the technology leader in each of its key industry segments, with 15 new
 
 
products introduced during the quarter including Autodesk Inventor and the award-winning color grading product from Discreet, Lustre.
 
As a key component in the Autodesk product lifecycle management strategy, sales of Autodesk Inventor Series outpaced the closest competitor as the manufacturing industry's top selling 3D modeling solution for the fifth consecutive quarter. The sale of 7,300 commercial seats during the quarter confirms that manufacturing customers continue to realize the value of new product enhancementslarger assembly performance, DWF publishing, and surface trimming capability.
 
The media and entertainment industry is showing signs of recovery. This market improvement, together with our new Discreet products, translated into strong revenue growth for Autodesk. Revenues in Discreet were up 28 percent from the previous quarter and eight percent versus the prior year quarter to $38 million, returning Discreet to operating profitability after seven quarters.
 
Customers understand the value of the Autodesk Subscription Programnow available worldwide. The program continues to appeal to customers as the best way to stay on the latest software release and budget more effectively. As a result, deferred subscription revenue increased to $61 million in the quarter.
 
Autodesk finished the quarter with $402 million in cash and investments. This was after using $30 million to buy back two million shares of stock, $3 million paid in quarterly dividends and $5 million for the acquisitions of Linius Technologies and VIA Development Corporation.
 
"With powerful new releases just entering the market, Autodesk has never been better positioned," said Bartz. "Increased growth in new commercial seats and the continued success of the company's subscription program led to the largest number of users at launch on AutoCAD 2004 based products. Despite a constrained spending environment and the uncertainty of SARS, we remain conservative yet highly confident in the outlook for the company."
 
Business Outlook
 
The following statements are based on current expectations. These statements are forward-looking and actual results may differ materially.
 
Q2 Fiscal 2004
 
 
Net revenues for the second quarter of fiscal 2004 are expected to be in the range of $207 million to $212 million. Earnings per diluted share for the second quarter of fiscal year 2004 are expected to be in the range of $0.07 to $0.10.
 
Factors that could cause Q2 net revenues to differ from our expectations include further weakening of the economies where we do business, lack of momentum in upgrade or subscription revenue, the effect of SARS on business growth in Asia Pacific or elsewhere and foreign currency exchange fluctuations. Anticipated earnings for Q2 are highly sensitive to revenue growth, but could also be affected by failure to adjust costs to revenue levels quickly enough, interest rates, share count and unanticipated costs, such as litigation.
 
Full Year Fiscal 2004
 
Net revenues for fiscal 2004 are still expected to be in the range of $875 million to $900 million. Earnings per diluted share for fiscal year 2004 are expected to be in the range of $0.50 to $0.60
 
In addition to the factors above, there is less visibility on the full year and more potential for geopolitical and economic forces to impact our anticipated results of operations.
 
Safe Harbor Statement
 
The statements above contained in the business outlook are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. In addition to the factors discussed above, factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include the following: general market and business conditions, delays in the release of new products and services, failure to achieve sufficient sell-through in our channels for new or existing products, failure to achieve customer acceptance of key new design and entertainment applications, pricing pressure, failure to achieve anticipated cost reductions, failure to achieve continued success in technology advancements, changes in accounting rules, failure to successfully integrate new or acquired businesses, financial and business condition of our reseller and distribution channels, renegotiation or termination of royalty or intellectual property arrangements, failure to grow lifecycle management or collaboration products.
 
Further information on potential factors that could affect the financial results of Autodesk are included in the company's report on Form 10-K, for the year ended January 31, 2003, which is on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
Autodesk will host a conference call at 312-470-0197 (password: Autodesk) and an audio webcast on the first quarter results beginning at 5:00 p.m. Eastern Time at www.Autodesk.com/investor. A replay of this webcast will be maintained on our website for at least twelve months.
 
About Autodesk
 
Autodesk is the world's leading design software and digital content company, offering customers progressive business solutions through powerful technology products and services. Autodesk helps customers in the building, manufacturing, infrastructure, digital media, and wireless data services fields increase the value of their digital design data and improve efficiencies across their entire project lifecycle management processes. For more information, contact any Authorized Autodesk Reseller, call Autodesk at 800-964-6432, or visit www.autodesk.com. Discreet
product information is available at 800-869-3504 or via the Web at www.discreet.com.
 
 
Autodesk, Autodesk Inventor and the Autodesk logo are registered trademarks, and Discreet is a trademark, of Autodesk, Inc., in the United States and/or other countries. All other brand names, product names, or trademarks belong to their respective holders.
Copyright 2003 Autodesk, Inc. All rights reserved.
 
 
Autodesk, Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Income
 
(In thousands, except per share data)
 
 
 
Autodesk, Inc.
Pro Forma Consolidated Statements of Income
(See pro forma adjustments listed in the tables below)
(In thousands, except per share data)
 
 
To supplement our consolidated financial statements presented on a GAAP basis, Autodesk uses pro forma measures of operating results, net income and income per share, which are adjusted to exclude certain costs, expenses, gains and losses we believe appropriate to enhance an overall understanding of our past financial performance and also our prospects for the future. These adjustments to our GAAP results are made with the intent of providing both management and investors a more complete understanding of Autodesk's underlying operational results and trends and our marketplace performance. For example, the pro forma results are an indication of our baseline performance before gains, losses or other charges that are considered by management to be outside of our core operating results. In addition, these adjusted pro forma results are among the primary indicators management uses as a basis for our planning and forecasting of future periods. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for net income or diluted net income per share prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
 
 
Autodesk, Inc.
Consolidated Balance Sheets
(In thousands)
 
 
 
Autodesk, Inc.
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
(In thousands)
 
 
 
autodesk
 
 
 


