FILE:ADSK/ADSK-8K-20051115163634.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
In September 2005, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Autodesk, Inc. (the "Company") adopted, subject to stockholder approval, amendments to the Company's 2000 Directors' Option Plan (the "2000 Directors' Plan"). At the Special Meeting of Stockholders of the Company held on November 10, 2005 (the "Special Meeting"), the Company's stockholders approved the amended and restated 2000 Directors' Plan. The primary results of approval of the amendments to the 2000 Directors' Plan are to (1) increase the number of shares reserved for issuance thereunder by 750,000 shares, (2) provide that all options granted under the 2000 Directors' Plan after November 10, 2005 will have a maximum term of six years, (3) limit the number of shares that may be issued under the 2000 Directors' Plan as restricted stock and (4) prohibit repricing of options, including by way of an exchange for another option, unless stockholder approval is obtained.
 
A copy of the 2000 Directors' Plan is filed with this report as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
In September 2005, the Board adopted, subject to stockholder approval, the Company's 2006 Employee Stock Plan (the "2006 Plan"). At the Special Meeting, the Company's stockholders approved the 2006 Plan. The 2006 Plan, which will become effective on March 21, 2006, permits the grant of stock options to employees of the Company. A summary of the terms of the 2006 Plan can be found in the Company's proxy statement for the Special Meeting filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 27, 2005.
 
A copy of the 2006 Plan is filed with this report as Exhibit 10.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: November 15, 2005
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
1. . The purposes of this Directors' Option Plan are to attract and retain highly skilled individuals as Directors of the Company, to provide additional incentive to the Outside Directors of the Company to serve as Directors, and to encourage their continued service on the Board.
Purposes of the Plan
 
All options granted hereunder shall be "non-statutory stock options."
 
2. . As used herein, the following definitions shall apply:
Definitions
 
(a) "" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
Board
 
(b) "" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
 
(c) "" means the Common Stock of the Company, par value $0.01 per share.
Common Stock
 
(d) "" means Autodesk, Inc., a Delaware corporation.
Company
 
(e) "" means a member of the Board.
Director
 
(f) "" means any person, including officers and Directors, employed by the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary of the Company. The payment of a Director's fee or consulting fee by the Company shall not be sufficient in and of itself to constitute "employment" by the Company unless the Director and the Company agree that, as a result of payment of such fees in connection with services rendered, such Director should not be considered an Outside Director.
Employee
 
(g) "" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
 
(h) "" means, as of any date, the value of Common Stock determined as follows:
Fair Market Value
 
(i) If the Common Stock is listed on any established stock exchange or national market system, including without limitation the Nasdaq National Market, the Fair Market Value of a Share of Common Stock shall be the closing sale price for such stock (or the closing bid, if no sales were reported), as quoted on such system or exchange (or, if more than one, on the exchange with the greatest volume of trading in the Company's Common Stock) on the day of determination, as reported in or such other source as the Board deems reliable;
The Wall Street Journal
 
(ii) If the Common Stock is quoted on Nasdaq (but not on the National Market) or regularly quoted by a recognized securities dealer, but selling prices are not reported, the Fair Market Value of a Share of Common Stock shall be the mean between the high and low asked prices for the Common Stock on the date of determination, as reported in or such other source as the Board deems reliable, or;
The Wall Street Journal
 
(iii) In the absence of an established market for the Common Stock, the Fair Market Value thereof shall be determined in good faith by the Board.
 
(i) "" means an option to purchase Common Stock granted pursuant to the Plan.
Option
 
(j) "" means the Common Stock subject to an Option.
Optioned Stock
 
(k) "" means an Outside Director who receives an Option.
Optionee
 
(l) "" means a Director who is not an Employee.
Outside Director
 
(m) "" means this 2000 Directors' Option Plan.
Plan
 
(n) "" means an Outside Director who purchases Restricted Stock.
Purchaser
 
(o) "" means a retirement from the Board after the retiring Director either (i) has attained 62 years of age and has served on the Board for at least five (5) years, or (ii) has served on the Board for at least ten (10) years.
Qualified Retirement
 
(p) "" means Shares granted to and purchased by Outside Directors in accordance with Section 4(c) of this Plan.
Restricted Stock
 
(n) "" means the Company's grant of Restricted Stock pursuant to Section 4(c) of the Plan.
Restricted Stock Award
 
(o) "" means a share of the Common Stock, as adjusted in accordance with Section 11 of the Plan.
Share
 
3. . Subject to the provisions of Section 11 of the Plan, the maximum aggregate number of Shares which may be optioned and sold under the Plan is 1,150,000 Shares (the "Pool") of Common Stock, together with any shares remaining in the Company's 1990 Directors' Option Plan as of its termination on July 24, 2000. The Shares may be authorized, but unissued, or reacquired Common Stock. Effective as of September 2, 2005, the number of Shares that may be issued hereunder after such date as Restricted Stock shall not exceed 124,300 Shares.
Stock Subject to the Plan
 
If an Option expires or becomes unexercisable without having been exercised in full, the unpurchased Shares which were subject thereto shall become available for future grant or sale under the Plan (unless the Plan has terminated). If Shares are forfeited to the Company pursuant to a Restricted Stock agreement, such Shares shall be returned to the Plan and shall become available for reissuance under the Plan, unless the Plan shall have been terminated. However, such Shares shall not return to the Plan if the persons to whom they were originally issued receive the benefits of ownership of such Shares (other than voting), as such concept is interpreted from time to time by the Securities and Exchange Commission in the context of Rule 16b-3. Shares used to pay the exercise price of an Option or to satisfy tax withholding obligations shall not become available for future grant or sale under the Plan.
 
4. .
Administration of and Grants under the Plan
 
(a) . Except as otherwise required herein, the Plan shall be administered by the Board. All grants of Options and Restricted Stock to Outside Directors under this Plan shall be automatic and nondiscretionary and shall be made strictly in accordance with the following provisions:
Administration
 
(b) .
Option Grants
 
(i) No person shall have any discretion to select which outside Directors shall be granted Options or to determine the number of Shares to be covered by Options granted to Outside Directors.
 
(ii) Each Outside Director who joins the Board on or after the date of adoption of this plan shall be automatically granted an Option to purchase 50,000 Shares (the "Initial Option") upon the date of the first meeting of the Board at which such person first serves as a Director (which shall be (i) in the case of a director elected by the stockholders of the Company, the first meeting of the Board of Directors after the meeting of stockholders at which such director was elected or (ii) in the case of a director appointed by the Board to fill a vacancy, the meeting of the Board at which such director is appointed); provided, however, that no option shall become exercisable under the Plan until stockholder approval of the Plan has been obtained in accordance with Section 17 hereof.
 
(iii) On the date of each annual stockholder meeting (an "Annual Meeting") during the term of this Plan, each Outside Director shall automatically receive an additional option to purchase 20,000 Shares (the "Annual Option"), provided that (1) the Annual Option shall be granted only to an outside Director who has served on the Board for at least six full months prior to the date of grant and (2) the grant of an Annual Option shall be subject to the person's continued service as an outside Director.
(iv) The terms of each Option granted hereunder shall be as follows:
 
(1) Each Option shall terminate, if not previously exercised or otherwise terminated, on a date six (6) years after the date of grant.
 
(2) Each Option shall be exercisable only while the Outside Director remains a Director of the Company, except as set forth in Section 8 hereof.
 
(3) The exercise price per Share of each Option shall be 100% of the Fair Market Value per Share on the date of grant of the Option.
 
(4) Each Initial Option shall become exercisable in installments cumulatively as 34%, 33% and 33%, respectively, of the Optioned Stock, on each of the three (3) succeeding years on the anniversary of such Option's date of grant, for a total vesting period of approximately three (3) years, provided that the Director continues to serve on the Board on such dates.
 
(5) Each Annual Option shall become fully exercisable on the date of the Company's next Annual Meeting for a total vesting period of approximately one (1) year, provided that the Director continues to serve on the Board on such date.
 
(v) In the event that any Option granted under the Plan would cause the number of Shares subject to outstanding Options plus the number of Shares previously purchased upon exercise of Options to exceed the Pool, then each such automatic grant shall be for that number of Shares determined by dividing the total number of Shares remaining available for grant by the number of Outside Directors on the automatic grant date. No further grants shall be made until such time, if any, as additional Shares become available for grant under the Plan through action of the stockholders to increase the number of Shares which may be issued under the Plan or through cancellation or expiration of Options previously granted hereunder.
 
(c) .
Restricted Stock Awards
 
(i) No person shall have any discretion to select which Outside Directors shall receive Restricted Stock Awards or to determine the number of Shares to be covered by Restricted Stock awarded to Outside Directors; provided, however, that nothing in this Plan shall be construed to prevent an Outside Director from declining to receive a Restricted Stock Award under this Plan.
 
(ii) On the date of each Annual Meeting of Stockholders of the Company during the term of this Plan, each Outside Director shall automatically receive a Restricted Stock Award for that number of Shares determined by dividing (1) the product of (a) fifty percent (50%) of the cash value of his or her annual retainer as a Director multiplied by (b) 1.2, by (2) the Fair Market Value of a Share on that date, rounded to the nearest whole Share, provided that on the date of grant of any such Restricted Stock Award such person is an Outside Director; and provided further that sufficient Shares are available under the Plan for the grant of such Restricted Stock Award.
 
(iii) On the date of each Annual Meeting of Stockholders of the Company during the term of this Plan, each Outside Director may elect to receive any or all of the remaining cash balance of his or her annual retainer as a Director in the form of a Restricted Stock Award by making an election (the "Election"). The Election must be in writing and delivered to the Secretary of the Company prior to the date of such Annual Meeting of Stockholders of the Company. Any Election made by an Outside Director pursuant to this subsection 4(c)(iii) shall be irrevocable. Effective as of the Annual Meeting of Stockholders of the Company, the Outside Director shall receive a Restricted Stock Award for that number of Shares determined by dividing (1) the product of (a) the amount of his or her annual retainer as a Director covered by the Election, multiplied by (b) 1.2, by (2) the Fair Market Value of a Share on that date, rounded to the nearest whole Share, provided that on the date of grant of any such Restricted Stock Award such person is an Outside Director; and provided further that sufficient Shares are available under the Plan for the grant of such Restricted Stock Award.
(iv) The terms of a Restricted Stock Award granted hereunder shall be as follows:
 
(1) the purchase price shall be $.01 per Share (the par value of the Company's Common Stock); and
 
(2) Subject to Sections 9(d) and 11(c), Restricted Stock shall vest on the date of the following year's Annual Meeting of Stockholders of the Company, provided that the Purchaser is an Outside Director on such date.
 
(d) . Subject to the provisions and restrictions of the Plan, the Board shall have the authority, in its discretion: (i) to determine, upon review of relevant information and in accordance with Section 2(h) of the Plan, the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock; (ii) to interpret the Plan; (iii) to prescribe, amend and rescind rules and regulations relating to the Plan; (iv) to authorize any person to execute on behalf of the Company any instrument required to effectuate the grant of an Option or Restricted Stock Award previously granted hereunder; and (v) to make all other determinations deemed necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan.
Powers of the Board
 
(e) . All decisions, determinations and interpretations of the Board shall be final.
Effect of Board's Decision
 
5. . Options and Restricted Stock Awards may be granted only to Outside Directors. All Options shall be automatically granted in accordance with the terms set forth in Section 4(b) and all Restricted Stock Awards shall be automatically granted in accordance with the terms set forth in Section 4(c)
Eligibility
 
The Plan shall not confer upon any Optionee or Purchaser any right with respect to continuation of service as a Director or nomination to serve as a Director, nor shall it interfere in any way with any rights which the Director or the Company may have to terminate his or her directorship at any time.
 
6. . The Plan shall become effective upon the earlier to occur of its adoption by the Board or its approval by the stockholders of the Company as described in Section 17 of the Plan. It shall continue in effect for a term of ten (10) years unless sooner terminated under Section 12 of the Plan.
Term of Plan
 
7. .
Option Exercise Price and Consideration
 
(a) . The per Share exercise price for Optioned Stock shall be 100% of the Fair Market Value per Share on the date of grant of the Option.
Exercise Price
 
(b) . The consideration to be paid for the Shares to be issued upon exercise of an Option may consist of (i) cash, (ii) check, or (iii) other shares of the Company's Common Stock which, in the case of Shares acquired upon exercise of an Option, either have been owned by the Optionee for more than six (6) months on the date of surrender or were not acquired, directly or indirectly, from the Company, and have a Fair Market Value on the date of surrender equal to the aggregate exercise price of the Shares as to which said Option shall be exercised.
Form of Consideration
 
(c) . The per Share exercise price for Optioned Stock may not be reduced without the consent of the Company's stockholders. This shall include, without limitation, a repricing of the Optioned Stock as well as an Option exchange program whereby the Optionee agrees to cancel an existing Option in exchange for an Option or a Restricted Stock Award.
No Repricing
 
8. .
Exercise of Option
 
(a) . Any Option granted hereunder shall be exercisable at such times as are set forth in Section 4(b) hereof.
Procedure for Exercise; Rights as a Stockholder
 
An Option may not be exercised for a fraction of a Share.
 
An Option shall be deemed to be exercised when written notice of such exercise has been given to the Company in accordance with the terms of the Option by the person entitled to exercise the Option
and full payment for the Shares with respect to which the option is exercised has been received by the Company. Full payment may consist of any consideration and method of payment allowable under Section 7(b) of the Plan. Until the issuance (as evidenced by the appropriate entry on the books of the Company or of a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company) of the stock certificate evidencing such Shares, no right to vote or receive dividends or any other rights as a stockholder shall exist with respect to the Optioned Stock, notwithstanding the exercise of the option. A share certificate for the number of Shares so acquired shall be issued to the Optionee as soon as practicable after exercise of the option. No adjustment will be made for a dividend or other right for which the record date is prior to the date the stock certificate is issued, except as provided in Section 11 of the Plan.
 
Except as otherwise provided in Section 3, exercise of an Option in any manner shall result in a decrease in the number of Shares which thereafter may be available, both for purposes of the Plan and for sale under the option, by the number of Shares as to which the option is exercised.
 
(b) . Options granted to Outside Directors must comply with the applicable provisions of Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act or any successor thereto and shall contain such additional conditions or restrictions as may be required thereunder to qualify for the maximum exemption from Section 16 of the Exchange Act with respect to Plan transactions.
Rule 16b-3
 
(c) . If an Outside Director ceases to serve as a Director, he may, but only within seven (7) months after the date he ceases to be a Director of the Company, exercise his Option to the extent that he was entitled to exercise it at the date of such termination; , , that if an Outside Director ceases to serve as a Director upon a Qualified Retirement, then he may, but only within three (3) years after the date he ceases to be a Director of the Company, exercise his Option to the extent he was qualified to exercise it at the date of such Qualified Retirement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event may the Option be exercised after its term has expired. To the extent that the Director was not entitled to exercise an Option at the date of such termination, or if he does not exercise such Option (which he was entitled to exercise) within the time specified herein, the Option shall terminate.
Termination of Status as a Director
provided
however
 
(d) . Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 8(c) above, in the event an Optionee is unable to continue his service as a Director as a result of his total and permanent disability (as defined in Section 22(e)(3) of the Code), he may, but only within twelve (12) months from the date of termination, exercise his Option to the extent he was entitled to exercise it at the date of such termination. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event may the Option be exercised after its term has expired. To the extent that he was not entitled to exercise the Option at the date of termination, or if he does not exercise such Option (which he was entitled to exercise) within the time specified herein, the Option shall terminate.
Disability of Optionee
 
(e) . In the event of the death of an Optionee during the term of an Option, the Option shall become fully exercisable, including as to Shares for which it would not otherwise be exercisable and may be exercised, at any time within twelve (12) months following the date of death, by the Optionee's estate or by a person who acquired the right to exercise the Option by bequest or inheritance. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event may the Option be exercised after its term has expired.
Death of Optionee
 
9. .
Restricted Stock
 
(a) . Following a Restricted Stock Award in accordance with Section 4(c), the Board shall notify the offeree in writing of the terms, conditions and restrictions relating to the offer, and the offeree shall have ninety (90) days following receipt of such notice within which to accept such offer. The offer shall be accepted by execution of a Restricted Stock purchase agreement in such form as the Board shall approve.
Procedure for Purchase
 
(b) . Until the issuance (as evidenced by the appropriate entry on the books of the Company or of a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company) of the stock certificate evidencing Restricted Stock, no right to vote or to receive dividends or any other rights as a stockholder shall exist with respect to purchased Shares. A share certificate for the number of Shares of Restricted Stock purchased shall be issued to the Purchaser as soon as practicable after purchase of the Restricted Stock. No adjustment will
Rights as a Stockholder
be made for a dividend or other right for which the record date is prior to the date the stock certificate is issued, except as provided in Section 11 of the Plan.
 
(c) . In the event a Purchaser's Continuous Status as a Director terminates prior to vesting (other than by reason of the Purchaser's death), Restricted Stock shall be forfeited by the Purchaser without any consideration therefor.
Termination of Continuous Status as a Director
 
(d) . In the event a Purchaser's Continuous Status as a Director terminates by reason of the Purchaser's death, the Purchaser's Restricted Stock shall become fully vested as of the date of death.
Death
 
(e) . Except as otherwise provided in Section 3 hereof, a purchase of Restricted Stock as provided hereunder shall result in a decrease in the number of Shares that thereafter shall be available under the Plan, by the number of Shares of Restricted Stock purchased.
Shares Available Under the Plan
 
(f) . Restricted Stock Awards to Outside Directors must comply with the applicable provisions of Rule 16b-3 of the Exchange Act and shall contain such additional conditions or restrictions as may be required thereunder to qualify Plan transactions, and other transactions by Outside Directors that could be matched with Plan transactions, for the maximum exemption from Section 16 of the Exchange Act with respect to Plan transactions.
Rule 16b-3
 
10. . Options and Restricted Stock Awards may not be sold, pledged, assigned, hypothecated, transferred, or disposed of in any manner other than by will or by the laws of descent or distribution. Options may be exercised, during the lifetime of the Optionee, only by the Optionee.
Non-Transferability of Options and Restricted Stock Awards
 
11. .
Adjustments Upon Changes in Capitalization, Dissolution, Merger, Asset Sale or Change of Control
 
(a) . Subject to any required action by the stockholders of the Company, the number of Shares covered by each outstanding Option and Restricted Stock Award, the number of Shares which have been authorized for issuance under the Plan but as to which no Options or Restricted Stock Awards have yet been granted or which have been returned to the Plan upon cancellation or expiration of an Option or repurchase or forfeiture of Restricted Stock, as well as the price per Share covered by each such outstanding Option, as applicable, shall be proportionately adjusted for any increase or decrease in the number of issued Shares resulting from a stock split, spin off, reverse stock split, stock dividend, combination or reclassification of the Common Stock, or any other increase or decrease in the number of issued Shares effected without receipt of consideration by the Company; provided, however, that conversion of any convertible securities of the Company shall not be deemed to have been "effected without receipt of consideration." Except as expressly provided herein, no issuance by the Company of shares of stock of any class, or securities convertible into shares of stock of any class, shall affect, and no adjustment by reason thereof shall be made with respect to, the number or price of Shares subject to an Option or Restricted Stock Award.
Changes in Capitalization
 
(b) . In the event of a proposed dissolution or liquidation of the Company, Options and Restricted Stock shall become fully vested and, in the case of Options, fully exercisable, including as to Shares as to which it would not otherwise be exercisable. To the extent an Option or Restricted Stock Award remains unexercised at the time of the dissolution or liquidation, the Option or Restricted Stock Award shall terminate.
Dissolution or Liquidation
 
(c) . In the event of a merger of the Company with or into another corporation or the sale of substantially all of the assets of the Company, Restricted Stock shall fully vest and outstanding Options may be assumed or equivalent options may be substituted by the successor corporation or a parent or subsidiary thereof (the "Successor Corporation"). If an Option is assumed or substituted for, the Option or equivalent option shall continue to be exercisable as provided in Section 4 hereof for so long as the Optionee serves as a Director or a director of the Successor Corporation. Following such assumption or substitution, if the Optionee's status as a Director or director of the Successor Corporation, as applicable, is terminated other than upon a voluntary resignation by the Optionee, the Option or option shall become fully
Merger or Asset Sale
exercisable, including as to Shares for which it would not otherwise be exercisable. Thereafter, the Option or option shall remain exercisable in accordance with Sections 8(c) through (e) above.
 
If the Successor Corporation does not assume an outstanding Option or substitute for it an equivalent option, the Option shall become fully vested and exercisable, including as to Shares for which it would not otherwise be exercisable. In such event the Board shall notify the Optionee that the Option shall be fully exercisable for a period of thirty (30) days from the date of such notice, and upon the expiration of such period the Option shall terminate.
 
For the purposes of this Section 11(c), an Option shall be considered assumed if, following the merger or sale of assets, the Option confers the right to purchase or receive, for each Share of Optioned Stock subject to the Option immediately prior to the merger or sale of assets, the consideration (whether stock, cash, or other securities or property) received in the merger or sale of assets by holders of Common Stock for each Share held on the effective date of the transaction (and if holders were offered a choice of consideration, the type of consideration chosen by the holders of a majority of the outstanding Shares).
 
12. .
Amendment and Termination of the Plan
 
(a) . The Board may at any time amend, alter, suspend, or discontinue the Plan, but no amendment, alteration, suspension, or discontinuation shall be made which would impair the rights of any Optionee or Purchaser under any grant theretofore made, without his or her consent. In addition, to the extent necessary and desirable to comply with any applicable law or regulation, the Company shall obtain stockholder approval of any Plan amendment in such a manner and to such a degree as required.
Amendment and Termination
 
(b) . Any such amendment or termination of the Plan shall not impair the rights of any Optionee or Purchaser under Options or Restricted Stock already granted without his or her consent and, in the absence of such consent, such Options and Restricted Stock shall remain in full force and effect as if this Plan had not been amended or terminated.
Effect of Amendment or Termination
 
13. . The date of grant of an Option or Restricted Stock Award shall, for all purposes, be the date determined in accordance with Section 4 hereof. Notice of the determination shall be given to each Outside Director to whom an Option or Restricted Stock Award is so granted within a reasonable time after the date of such grant.
Time of Granting Options or Restricted Stock Awards
 
14. . Shares shall not be issued pursuant to the exercise of an Option or Restricted Stock Award unless the exercise of such Option or Restricted Stock Award and the issuance and delivery of such Shares pursuant thereto shall comply with all relevant provisions of law, including, without limitation, the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, the Exchange Act, the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, state securities laws, and the requirements of any stock exchange upon which the Shares may then be listed, and shall be further subject to the approval of counsel for the Company with respect to such compliance.
Conditions Upon Issuance of Shares
 
As a condition to the exercise of an Option or Restricted Stock Award, the Company may require the person exercising such Option or Restricted Stock Award to represent and warrant at the time of any such exercise that the Shares are being purchased only for investment and without any present intention to sell or distribute such Shares, if, in the opinion of counsel for the Company, such a representation is required by any of the aforementioned relevant provisions of law.
 
Inability of the Company to obtain authority from any regulatory body having jurisdiction, which authority is deemed by the Company's counsel to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any Shares hereunder, shall relieve the Company of any liability in respect of the failure to issue or sell such Shares as to which such requisite authority shall not have been obtained.
 
15. . The Company, during the term of this Plan, will at all times reserve and keep available such number of Shares as shall be sufficient to satisfy the requirements of the Plan.
Reservation of Shares
16. . Options and Restricted Stock Awards shall be evidenced by written option agreements in such form as the Board shall approve.
Agreements
 
17. . Continuance of the Plan shall be subject to approval by the stockholders of the Company at or prior to the first annual meeting of stockholders held subsequent to the adoption of the Plan. Such stockholder approval shall be obtained in the degree and manner required under applicable state and federal law.
Stockholder Approval

Exhibit 10.2
 
 
 
 
1. . The purposes of this 2006 Employee Stock Plan are:
Purposes of the Plan
 
 
 
 
Awards granted under the Plan may be Incentive Stock Options and Nonstatutory Stock Options, as determined by the Administrator at the time of grant.
 
2. . As used herein, the following definitions shall apply:
Definitions
 
(a) "" means the Board or any of its Committees as shall be administering the Plan, in accordance with Section 4 of the Plan.
Administrator
 
(b) "" means the requirements relating to the administration of equity compensation plans under U.S. state corporate laws, U.S. federal and state securities laws, the Code, any stock exchange or quotation system on which the Shares are listed or quoted and the applicable laws of any other country or jurisdiction where Awards are granted under the Plan.
Applicable Laws
 
(c) "" means, individually or collectively, a grant of Options under the Plan.
Award
 
(d) "" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
Board
 
(e) "" means the occurrence of any of the following events, in one or a series of related transactions:
Change of Control
 
(i) any "person," as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act, other than the Company, a subsidiary of the Company or a Company employee benefit plan, including any trustee of such plan acting as trustee, is or becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing fifty percent (50%) or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors; or
 
(ii) a merger or consolidation of the Company or any direct or indirect subsidiary of the Company with any other corporation, other than a merger or consolidation which would result in the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity) at least fifty percent (50%) of the total voting power represented by the voting securities of the Company or such surviving entity outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation; or
 
(iii) the sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all the Company's assets; or
 
(iv) a change in the composition of the Board, as a result of which fewer than a majority of the Directors are Incumbent Directors. "Incumbent Directors" shall mean Directors who either (A) are Directors as of the date this Plan is approved by the Board, or (B) are elected, or nominated for election, to the Board with the affirmative votes of at least a majority of the Directors and whose
 
election or nomination was not in connection with any transaction described in (i) or (ii) above or in connection with an actual or threatened proxy contest relating to the election of directors of the Company.
 
(f) "" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
 
(g) "" Committee of Board means a Committee appointed by the Board in accordance with Section 4 of the Plan.
Committee
 
(h) "" means the Common Stock of the Company.
Common Stock
 
(i) "" means Autodesk, Inc.
Company
 
(j) "" means the date when the Option is granted and its exercise price is set, consistent with Applicable Laws and applicable financial accounting rules.
Date of Grant
 
(k) "" means a member of the Board.
Director
 
(l) "" means total and permanent disability as defined in Section 22(e)(3) of the Code.
Disability
 
(m) "" means any person employed by the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary of the Company. An Employee shall not cease to be an Employee in the case of (i) any leave of absence approved by the Company or (ii) transfers between locations of the Company or between the Company, its Parent, any Subsidiary, or any successor. For purposes of Incentive Stock Options, no such leave may exceed ninety days, unless reemployment upon expiration of such leave is guaranteed by statute or contract. If reemployment upon expiration of a leave of absence approved by the Company is not so guaranteed, then three (3) months following the 91
Employee
st
day of such leave any Incentive Stock Option held by the Participant shall cease to be treated as an Incentive Stock Option and shall be treated for tax purposes as a Nonstatutory Stock Option.
 
(n) "" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
 
(o) "" means, as of any date, the value of Common Stock determined as follows:
Fair Market Value
 
(i) If the Common Stock is listed on any established stock exchange or a national market system, including without limitation the Nasdaq National Market of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotation ("Nasdaq") System, the Fair Market Value of a Share of Common Stock shall be the closing sales price for such stock (or the closing bid, if no sales were reported) as quoted on such system or exchange (or the exchange with the greatest volume of trading in Common Stock) on the day of determination, as reported in or such other source as the Administrator deems reliable; or
The Wall Street Journal
 
(ii) In the absence of an established market for the Common Stock, the Fair Market Value shall be determined in good faith by the Administrator.
 
(p) "" means a fiscal year of the Company.
Fiscal Year
 
(q) "" means an Option intended to qualify as an incentive stock option within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder.
Incentive Stock Option
 
(r) "" means an Option not intended to qualify as an Incentive Stock Option.
Nonstatutory Stock Option
 
(s) "" means a written or electronic notice evidencing certain terms and conditions of an individual Award. The Notice of Grant is part of the Option Agreement.
Notice of Grant
 
(u) "" means a stock option granted pursuant to the Plan.
Option
 
(v) "" means a written or electronic agreement between the Company and a Participant evidencing the terms and conditions of an individual Option grant. The Option Agreement is subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan.
Option Agreement
(w) "" means a "parent corporation", whether now or hereafter existing, as defined in Section 424(e) of the Code.
Parent
 
(x) "" means the holder of an outstanding Option granted under the Plan.
Participant
 
(y) "" means this 2006 Employee Stock Plan.
Plan
 
(z) "" means Rule 16b-3 of the Exchange Act or any successor to Rule 16b-3, as in effect when discretion is being exercised with respect to the Plan.
Rule 16b-3
 
(aa) "" means Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Section 16(b)
 
(bb) "" means a share of the Common Stock, as adjusted in accordance with Section 12 of the Plan.
Share
 
(cc) "" means a "subsidiary corporation", whether now or hereafter existing, as defined in Section 424(f) of the Code.
Subsidiary
 
3. .
Stock Subject to the Plan
 
Subject to the provisions of Section 12 of the Plan, the maximum aggregate number of Shares which may be issued under the Plan is equal to 9,650,000 Shares plus the number of shares that have been reserved but not issued nor subject to outstanding options under the Company's 1996 Stock Plan (the "1996 Plan") as of the termination date of the 1996 Plan, not to exceed 4,340,000 shares.
 
The Shares may be authorized, but unissued, or reacquired Common Stock. If an Option expires or becomes unexercisable without having been exercised in full, the unpurchased Shares which were subject thereto shall become available for future grant under the Plan (unless the Plan has terminated). However, Shares that have actually been issued under the Plan upon exercise of an Option shall not be returned to the Plan and shall not become available for future distribution under the Plan. Shares used to pay the exercise price of an Option or to satisfy tax withholding obligations shall not become available for future grant or sale under the Plan.
 
4. .
Administration of the Plan
 
(a) .
Procedure
 
(i) . The Plan may be administered by different Committees with respect to different groups of Employees.
Multiple Administrative Bodies
 
(ii) . To the extent that the Administrator determines it to be desirable to qualify Options granted hereunder as "performance-based compensation" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code, the Plan shall be administered by a Committee of two or more "outside directors" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code.
Section 162(m)
 
(iii) . To the extent desirable to qualify transactions hereunder as exempt under Rule 16b-3, the transactions contemplated hereunder shall be structured to satisfy the requirements for exemption under Rule 16b-3.
Rule 16b-3
 
(iv) . Other than as provided above, the Plan shall be administered by (A) the Board or (B) a Committee, which committee shall be constituted to satisfy Applicable Laws.
Other Administration
 
(b) . Subject to the provisions of the Plan, and in the case of a Committee, subject to the specific duties delegated by the Board to such Committee, the Administrator shall have the authority, in its discretion:
Powers of the Administrator
 
(i) to determine the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock, in accordance with Section 2(o) of the Plan;
 
(ii) to select the Employees to whom Options may be granted hereunder;
(iii) to determine whether and to what extent Options are granted hereunder;
 
(iv) to determine the number of Shares to be covered by each Option granted hereunder;
 
(v) to approve forms of agreement for use under the Plan;
 
(vi) subject to Section 9(c) of the Plan, to determine the terms and conditions, not inconsistent with the terms of the Plan, of any Option granted hereunder. Such terms and conditions include, but are not limited to, the exercise price, the time or times when Options may be exercised, based in each case on such factors as the Administrator, in its sole discretion, shall determine;
 
(vii) to construe and interpret the terms of the Plan and Options granted hereunder;
 
(viii) to prescribe, amend and rescind rules and regulations relating to the Plan, including rules and regulations relating to sub-plans established for the purpose of qualifying for preferred tax treatment under foreign tax laws;
 
(ix) to modify or amend each Option (subject to Section 9(c) and Section 13 of the Plan), including the discretionary authority to extend the post-termination exercisability period of Options longer than is otherwise provided for in the Plan;
 
(x) to authorize any person to execute on behalf of the Company any instrument required to effect the grant of an Option previously granted by the Administrator;
 
(xi) to allow Participants to satisfy withholding tax obligations by electing to have the Company withhold from the Shares to be issued upon exercise or vesting of an Option that number of Shares having a Fair Market Value equal to the minimum amount required to be withheld (but no more). The Fair Market Value of any Shares to be withheld shall be determined on the date that the amount of tax to be withheld is to be determined. All elections by a Participant to have Shares withheld for this purpose shall be made in such form and under such conditions as the Administrator may deem necessary or advisable;
 
(xii) to determine the terms and restrictions applicable to Options; and
 
(xiii) to make all other determinations deemed necessary or advisable for administering the Plan.
 
(c) . The Administrator's decisions, determinations and interpretations shall be final and binding on all Participants and any other holders of Options.
Effect of Administrator's Decision
 
5. . Incentive Stock Options and Nonstatutory Stock Options may be granted only to Employees.
Eligibility
 
6. . Neither the Plan nor any Option shall confer upon a Participant any right with respect to continuing the Participant's employment with the Company or its Subsidiaries, nor shall they interfere in any way with the Participant's right or the Company's or Subsidiary's right, as the case may be, to terminate such employment at any time, with or without cause or notice.
No Employment Rights
 
7. .
Code Section 162(m) Provisions
 
(a) . No Participant shall be granted, in any Fiscal Year, Options to purchase more than 1,500,000 Shares; , that such limit shall be 3,000,000 Shares in the Participant's first Fiscal Year of Company service.
Option Annual Share Limit
provided, however
 
(b) . The numerical limitations in Section 7(a) shall be adjusted proportionately in connection with any change in the Company's capitalization as described in Section 12(a).
Changes in Capitalization
 
8. . The Plan shall become effective on March 21, 2006 and continue in effect for a term of two (2) years after such date.
Term of Plan
9. .
Stock Options
 
(a) . The term of each Option shall be stated in the Notice of Grant; , that the term shall be no longer than six (6) years from the Date of Grant. Moreover, in the case of an Incentive Stock Option granted to a Participant who, at the time the Incentive Stock Option is granted, owns stock representing more than ten percent (10%) of the voting power of all classes of stock of the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary, the term of the Incentive Stock Option shall be no longer than five (5) years from the Date of Grant.
Term
provided, however
 
(b) . The per share exercise price for the Shares to be issued pursuant to exercise of an Option shall be determined by the Administrator and shall be no less than 100% of the Fair Market Value per share on the Date of Grant; , that in the case of an Incentive Stock Option granted to an Employee who, at the time the Incentive Stock Option is granted, owns stock representing more than ten percent (10%) of the voting power of all classes of stock of the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary, the per Share exercise price shall be no less than 110% of the Fair Market Value per Share on the Date of Grant.
Option Exercise Price
provided, however
 
(c) . The exercise price for an Option may not be reduced without the consent of the Company's stockholders. This shall include, without limitation, a repricing of the Option as well as an Option exchange program whereby the Participant agrees to cancel an existing Option in exchange for an Option.
No Repricing
 
(d) . At the time an Option is granted, the Administrator shall fix the period within which the Option may be exercised and shall determine any conditions which must be satisfied before the Option may be exercised. In so doing, the Administrator may specify that an Option may not be exercised until the completion of a service period or until performance milestones are satisfied.
Waiting Period and Exercise Dates
 
(e) . The Administrator shall determine the acceptable form of consideration for exercising an Option, including the method of payment. In the case of an Incentive Stock Option, the Administrator shall determine the acceptable form of consideration at the time of grant. Subject to Applicable Laws, such consideration may consist entirely of:
Form of Consideration
 
(i) cash;
 
(ii) check;
 
(iii) other Shares which (A) in the case of Shares acquired upon exercise of an option, have been owned by the Participant for more than six months on the date of surrender, and (B) have a Fair Market Value on the date of surrender equal to the aggregate exercise price of the Shares as to which said Option shall be exercised;
 
(iv) delivery to the Company of (A) a properly executed exercise notice together with such other documentation as the Administrator and the broker, if applicable, shall require to effect an exercise of the Option and (B) the sale proceeds required to pay the exercise price;
 
(v) any combination of the foregoing methods of payment; or
 
(vi) such other consideration and method of payment for the issuance of Shares to the extent permitted by Applicable Laws; provided, however, that in no case will loans be permitted as consideration for exercising an Option hereunder.
 
(f) . Any Option granted hereunder shall be exercisable according to the terms of the Plan and at such times and under such conditions as determined by the Administrator and set forth in the Option Agreement.
Exercise of Option; Rights as a Stockholder
 
An Option may not be exercised for a fraction of a Share.
 
An Option shall be deemed exercised when the Company receives: (i) written or electronic notice of exercise (in accordance with the Option Agreement) from the person entitled to exercise the Option, and (ii) full
payment for the Shares with respect to which the Option is exercised. Full payment may consist of any consideration and method of payment authorized by the Administrator and permitted by the Option Agreement and the Plan. Shares issued upon exercise of an Option shall be issued in the name of the Participant. Until the stock certificate evidencing such Shares is issued (as evidenced by the appropriate entry on the books of the Company or of a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company), no right to vote or receive dividends or any other rights as a stockholder shall exist with respect to the optioned stock, notwithstanding the exercise of the Option. The Company shall issue (or cause to be issued) such stock certificate promptly after the Option is exercised. No adjustment will be made for a dividend or other right for which the record date is prior to the date the stock certificate is issued, except as provided in Section 12 of the Plan.
 
Exercising an Option in any manner shall decrease the number of Shares thereafter available for sale under the Option, by the number of Shares as to which the Option is exercised.
 
(g) . If a Participant ceases to be a Employee, other than upon the Participant's death or Disability, the Participant may exercise his or her Option within such period of time as is specified in the Option Agreement to the extent that the Option is vested on the date of termination (but in no event later than the expiration of the term of such Option as set forth in the Option Agreement). In the absence of a specified time in the Option Agreement, the Option shall remain exercisable for three months following the Participant's termination. If, on the date of termination, the Participant is not vested as to his or her entire Option, the Shares covered by the unvested portion of the Option shall revert to the Plan. If, after termination, the Participant does not exercise his or her Option within the time specified by the Administrator, the Option shall terminate, and the Shares covered by such Option shall revert to the Plan.
Termination of Relationship as an Employee
 
(h) . If a Participant ceases to be a Employee as a result of the Participant's Disability, the Participant may exercise his or her Option for twelve (12) months following the Participant's termination (but in no event may the Option be exercised later than the expiration of the term of such Option as set forth in the Option Agreement). If, on the date of termination, the Participant is not vested as to his or her entire Option, the Shares covered by the unvested portion of the Option shall revert to the Plan. If, after termination, the Participant does not exercise his or her Option within the time specified herein, the Option shall terminate, and the Shares covered by such Option shall revert to the Plan.
Disability
 
(i) . If a Participant dies while a Employee, the Option may be exercised for twelve (12) months following Participant's death (but in no event may the option be exercised later than the expiration of the term of such Option as set forth in the Option Agreement), by the Participant's designated beneficiary, provided such beneficiary has been designated prior to Participant's death in a form acceptable to the Administrator. If no such beneficiary has been designated by the Participant, then such Option may be exercised by the personal representative of the Participant's estate or by the person(s) to whom the Option is transferred pursuant to the Participant's will or in accordance with the laws of descent and distribution. If the Option is not so exercised within the time specified herein, the Option shall terminate, and the Shares covered by such Option shall revert to the Plan.
Death of Participant
 
(j) . Each Option shall be designated in the Notice of Grant as either an Incentive Stock Option or a Nonstatutory Stock Option. However, notwithstanding such designations, to the extent that the aggregate Fair Market Value of Shares subject to a Participant's Incentive Stock Options granted by the Company, any Parent or Subsidiary, which become exercisable for the first time during any calendar year (under all plans of the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary) exceeds $100,000, such excess Options shall be treated as Nonstatutory Stock Options. For purposes of this Section 9(j), Incentive Stock Options shall be taken into account in the order in which they were granted, and the Fair Market Value of the Shares shall be determined as of the time of grant.
ISO $100,000 Rule
 
10. . Unless the Administrator provides otherwise or except as otherwise required by Applicable Laws, vesting of Options granted hereunder shall continue during any leave of absence approved by the Administrator.
Leaves of Absence
11. . Unless determined otherwise by the Administrator, an Option may not be sold, pledged, assigned, hypothecated, transferred, or disposed of in any manner other than by will or by the laws of descent or distribution and may be exercised, during the lifetime of the recipient, only by the recipient. If the Administrator makes an Option transferable, such Option shall contain such additional terms and conditions as the Administrator deems appropriate; provided, however, that such Option shall in no event be transferable for value.
Non-Transferability of Options
 
12. .
Adjustments Upon Changes in Capitalization
 
(a) Subject to any required action by the stockholders of the Company, the number of Shares covered by each outstanding Option, the number of Shares which have been authorized for issuance under the Plan but as to which no Options have yet been granted or which have been returned to the Plan upon cancellation or expiration of an Option, as well as the price per Share of Common Stock covered by each such outstanding Option and the 162(m) Fiscal Year share issuance limits under Section 7(a) hereof, shall be proportionately adjusted for any increase or decrease in the number of issued Shares resulting from a stock split, reverse stock split, stock dividend, combination or reclassification of the Common Stock, or any other increase or decrease in the number of issued Shares effected without receipt of consideration by the Company; , that conversion of any convertible securities of the Company shall not be deemed to have been "effected without receipt of consideration." Such adjustment shall be made by the Compensation Committee, whose determination in that respect shall be final, binding and conclusive. Except as expressly provided herein, no issuance by the Company of shares of stock of any class, or securities convertible into shares of stock of any class, shall affect, and no adjustment by reason thereof shall be made with respect to, the number or price of shares of Common Stock subject to an Option.
provided, however
 
(b) . In the event of the proposed dissolution or liquidation of the Company, the Administrator shall notify each Participant as soon as practicable prior to the effective date of such proposed transaction. The Administrator in its discretion may provide for a Participant to have the right to exercise his or her Option until ten (10) days prior to such transaction as to all of the Shares covered thereby, including Shares as to which the Option would not otherwise be exercisable. In addition, the Administrator may provide that any Company repurchase option or forfeiture rights applicable to any Option shall lapse 100%, and that any Option vesting shall accelerate 100%, provided the proposed dissolution or liquidation takes place at the time and in the manner contemplated. To the extent it has not been previously exercised, an Option will terminate immediately prior to the consummation of such proposed action.
Dissolution or Liquidation
 
(c) . In the event of a Change of Control, each outstanding Option shall be assumed or an equivalent option substituted by the successor corporation or a Parent or Subsidiary of the successor corporation. In the event that the successor corporation refuses to assume or substitute for the Option, the Participant shall fully vest in and have the right to exercise the Option as to all of the Shares, including Shares as to which it would not otherwise be vested or exercisable. If an Option is not assumed or substituted in the event of a Change of Control, the Administrator shall notify the Participant in writing or electronically that the Option shall be fully vested and exercisable for a period of fifteen (15) days from the date of such notice, and the Option shall terminate upon the expiration of such period. For the purposes of this paragraph, the Option shall be considered assumed if, following the Change of Control, the Option confers the right to purchase or receive, for each Share subject to the Option immediately prior to the Change of Control, the consideration (whether stock, cash, or other securities or property) received in the Change of Control by holders of Common Stock for each Share held on the effective date of the transaction (and if holders were offered a choice of consideration, the type of consideration chosen by the holders of a majority of the outstanding Shares); , that if such consideration received in the Change of Control is not solely common stock of the successor corporation or its Parent, the Administrator may, with the consent of the successor corporation, provide for the consideration to be received upon the exercise of the Option, for each Share subject to the Option, to be solely common stock of the successor corporation or its Parent equal in fair market value to the per share consideration received by holders of Common Stock in the Change of Control.
Change of Control
provided, however
13. .
Amendment and Termination of the Plan
 
(a) . The Board may at any time amend, alter, suspend or terminate the Plan; provided, however, that the Board may not materially amend the Plan without obtaining stockholder approval. For this purpose, the following shall be considered material amendments requiring stockholder approval: (i) increasing the benefits accruing to Plan participants, (ii) increasing the number of Shares that may be issued under the Plan (other than in accordance with Section 12(a) hereof), (iii) modifying the requirements for participation under the Plan or (iv) as otherwise may be required by Applicable Laws.
Amendment and Termination
 
(b) . The Company shall obtain stockholder approval of any Plan amendment to the extent necessary and desirable to comply with Applicable Laws. Such stockholder approval, if required, shall be obtained in such a manner and to such a degree as is required by the applicable law, rule or regulation.
Stockholder Approval
 
(c) . No amendment, alteration, suspension or termination of the Plan shall impair the rights of any Participant, unless mutually agreed otherwise between the Participant and the Administrator, which agreement must be in writing (or electronic format) and signed by the Participant and the Company.
Effect of Amendment or Termination
 
14. .
Conditions Upon Issuance of Shares
 
(a) . Shares shall not be issued pursuant to the exercise of an Award unless the exercise of the Option or the issuance and delivery of such Shares shall comply with Applicable Laws and shall be further subject to the approval of counsel for the Company with respect to such compliance.
Legal Compliance
 
(b) . As a condition to the exercise or receipt of an Option, the Company may require the person exercising or receiving such Option to represent and warrant at the time of any such exercise or receipt that the Shares are being purchased only for investment and without any present intention to sell or distribute such Shares if, in the opinion of counsel for the Company, such a representation is required.
Investment Representations
 
15. .
Liability of Company
 
(a) . The inability of the Company to obtain authority from any regulatory body having jurisdiction, which authority is deemed by the Company's counsel to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any Shares hereunder, shall relieve the Company of any liability in respect of the failure to issue or sell such Shares as to which such requisite authority shall not have been obtained.
Inability to Obtain Authority
 
(b) . If the Shares covered by an Option exceed, as of the Date of Grant, the number of Shares which may be issued under the Plan without additional stockholder approval, such Option shall be void with respect to such excess Shares, unless stockholder approval of an amendment sufficiently increasing the number of Shares subject to the Plan is timely obtained in accordance with Section 13(b) of the Plan.
Grants Exceeding Allotted Shares
 
16. . The Company, during the term of this Plan, will at all times reserve and keep available such number of Shares as shall be sufficient to satisfy the requirements of the Plan.
Reservation of Shares


