FILE:ADSK/ADSK-8K-20050614061737.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
 
Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 is information to be sent to certain stockholders of Autodesk, Inc. in connection with Autodesk's Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on June 23, 2005 (the ""), regarding the proposed Autodesk, Inc. 2006 Stock Plan. A copy of the 2006 Stock Plan, as currently proposed for approval at the Annual Meeting, can be found by reference to Appendix B to Autodesk's 2005 Proxy Statement filed on May 16, 2005 (Commission File No. 000-14338).
Annual Meeting
 
This information is not "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and is not incorporated by reference into any filing made pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The furnishing of this information is not intended to constitute a representation that such furnishing is required by Regulation FD or that the information includes material information that is not otherwise publicly available.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: June 14, 2005
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Autodesk's employee stock plan, the 1996 Stock Plan, expires in March 2006. Upon the plan's expiration, Autodesk will have no shares reserved for employee stock options.
 
The Autodesk Board of Directors has approved a new employee stock plan, the 2006 Stock Plan, which is being submitted for shareholder approval in our 2005 Proxy Statement. The plan reserves 25 million shares for issuance over three years. In addition, in March, the Autodesk Board of Directors approved a policy providing that gross dilution from stock grants will not exceed 3 percent of outstanding common stock per year, excluding awards issued in connection with business combinations or the hiring of new senior executive officers.
 
Institutional Shareholder Services, ISS, has recommended a vote against the company's proposed stock plan. ISS evaluates equity-based compensation plans using a cost-based analysis. ISS calculates two costs to shareholders: a dollar cost (SVT) and a dilution cost (VPD), which are combined using 95% and 5% weightings, respectively. To determine the dollar cost (SVT), ISS uses a proprietary binomial model. The total cost is compared to a company specific cap, based on the industry and on the company's performance.
 
The ISS model contemplates three forms of equity when evaluating stock plans: granted but unexercised shares, shares available for grant under all currently authorized plans, and shares reserved in the plan being submitted for shareholder approval. Under the ISS model, Autodesk's existing stock overhang combined with the shares available for grant under currently authorized plans are in excess of ISS's allowable limits. Option overhang is the most significant factor in ISS's recommendation of a vote against. Given Autodesk's current option overhang and shares available under the 1996 Stock Plan, there is no stock plan which Autodesk could propose that would result in a favorable recommendation from ISS.
 
SUMMARY ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF STOCK OPTION PLAN
 
We believe elimination of our stock option program would seriously hamper our ability to attract and retain the talent we need.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We are taking all the right actions to grow shareholder value, including commitments to manage the stock option program in the best interests of our shareholders. A defeat of our stock plan would constrain our ability to deliver to you the continued strong returns we have shown we are capable of achieving. We urge you to vote in favor of our stock option plan proposal in the 2005 proxy.
 
DETAILED REVIEW OF ARGUMENTS IN FAVOR OF STOCK OPTION PLAN
 
Autodesk believes that we must offer competitive compensation packages in order to attract and retain staff who can keep the company on a course of continued success. Elimination of our stock option program would seriously hamper our ability to attract and retain the talent we need. In recent years, we have hired a number of key performers who helped drive the company's current success. Our stock compensation program was critical in attracting and retaining these employees.
 
Autodesk has shown very strong financial performance in the past two years. Revenue growth has been robust, operating margins have improved substantially, and EPS has increased even more substantially. Our current projections for fiscal 2006 forecast a continuation of the strong financial performance.
 
Since fiscal 2003, option overhang and dilution from stock grants has decreased substantially. The company recognized that 26% option overhang in fiscal 2003 was too high and reduced it to 16% in fiscal 2005. It reached 26% for two primary reasons: high annual stock option grants as well as a stagnant stock price which left stock options unexercised.
 
 
Autodesk has addressed the issues ISS identifies in several ways:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
been in place for years. We currently have authorization in place for the repurchase of approximately 29 million additional shares, which exceeds the aggregate shares requested under the new stock plan.
 
With the growth in earnings and subsequent increase in stock price, as well as reductions in new stock grant percentages over the past three years, Autodesk has seen a significant reduction in the overhang, going from 26% in fiscal 2003 to 16% in fiscal 2005 today. Given anticipated net dilution of 2.5% annually and typical employee exercise patterns, we believe our overhang will trend to less than 10% over the next several years, a level within the ISS guidelines, and well within the practices of well run technology companies.
 
There is no way for Autodesk to achieve the ISS guidelines overnight. Option overhang has dropped dramatically. We cannot force staff to exercise their options immediately to reduce overhang. Further, we do not believe it would be in the best interests of our shareholders to do so.
 
Our turnaround over the past three years has been greatly aided by our ability to attract and retain strong new employees. We need to offer competitive compensation packages in order to attract and retain staff who can keep Autodesk on a course of continued success. Elimination of our stock option program would seriously hamper our ability to hold and attract the talent we need.
 
In summary, we are committed to achieving the ISS guidelines, but we need a reasonable time period to do so. We are taking all the right actions to grow shareholder value, including commitments to manage the stock option program in the best interests of our shareholders. A defeat of our stock plan would constrain our ability to deliver to you the continued strong returns we have shown we are capable of achieving. We urge you to vote in favor of our stock option plan proposal in the 2005 proxy.


