FILE:ADSK/ADSK-8K-20061220160641.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Carl Bass Employment Agreement
On December 14, 2006, Autodesk, Inc. (the "Company") entered into an employment agreement with Carl Bass, the Company's President and Chief Executive Officer (the "Bass Agreement"). During the term of the Bass Agreement, Mr. Bass will receive an annual base salary of $700,000. In addition, Mr. Bass will be eligible to participate in the Company's Executive Incentive Plan at a target level of not less than 100% of his annual base salary, subject to the terms of the Executive Incentive Plan. Either Mr. Bass or the Company may terminate the employment relationship upon thirty days written notice to the other party.
Pursuant to the Bass Agreement, the Company has agreed to continue to nominate Mr. Bass to serve as a member of the Company's Board of Directors. In addition, the Company has agreed to provide Mr. Bass with certain severance benefits in the event Mr. Bass's employment is terminated by the Company without cause or if Mr. Bass resigns for good reason (as such terms are defined in the Bass Agreement), including if such termination or resignation is in connection with a change of control (as such term is defined in the Bass Agreement).
Mr. Bass will continue to be eligible to receive grants of stock options or other equity based awards customarily granted to executive officers, as well as to participate in all other benefit plans, policies and arrangements that are applicable to other senior executives of the Company, as such may exist from time to time. The Bass Agreement is attached as Exhibit 10.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: December 20, 2006
 

Exhibit 10.1
This Employment Agreement (the "Agreement") is entered into as of December 14, 2006, by and between Autodesk, Inc. (the "Company") and Carl Bass ("Executive").
1. .
Duties and Scope of Employment
(a) . Effective May 1, 2006 (the "Effective Date"), Executive will serve as the Company's President and Chief Executive Officer. Executive will report to the Company's Board of Directors (the "Board"). As of the Effective Date, Executive will render such business and professional services in the performance of his duties, consistent with Executive's position in the Company, as are reasonably assigned to him by the Board. The period Executive is employed by the Company under this Agreement is referred to herein as the "Employment Term."
Positions and Duties
(b) . Executive will continue to serve as a member of the Board as of the Effective Date. Thereafter, at each annual meeting of the Company's stockholders during the Employment Term, the Company will nominate Executive to serve as a member of the Board. Executive's service as a member of the Board will be subject to any required stockholder approval. Upon the termination of Executive's employment for any reason, unless otherwise requested by the Board, Executive will be deemed to have resigned from the Board (and all other positions held at the Company and its affiliates) voluntarily and without further action from the Board, effective as of the end of Executive's employment, and Executive, at the Board's request, will execute any documents necessary to reflect his resignation.
Board Membership
(c) . During the Employment Term, Executive will devote his full business time and efforts to the Company and he will use good faith efforts to discharge Executive's obligations under this Agreement to the best of Executive's ability and in accordance with each of the Company's ethics guidelines, conflict of interest policies and Code of Business Conduct. For the duration of the Employment Term, Executive agrees not to actively engage in any other employment, occupation, or consulting activity for any direct or indirect remuneration without the prior approval of the Board (which approval will not be unreasonably withheld); provided, however, that Executive may, without the approval of the Board, serve in any capacity with any civic, educational, or charitable organization, provided such services do not interfere with Executive's obligations to Company. Executive may also serve, without the prior approval of the Board, as a member of the board of directors of two publicly traded companies (other than the Company) and such service will not constitute a violation of this Section 1(c).
Obligations
2. . Executive and the Company agree that Executive's employment with the Company constitutes "at-will" employment. Executive and the Company acknowledge that this employment relationship may be terminated at any time, upon thirty (30) days written notice to the other party, with or without good cause or for any or no cause, at the option either of the Company or Executive. However, as described in this Agreement, Executive may be entitled to severance and other benefits depending upon the circumstances of Executive's termination of employment.
At-Will Employment
3. .
Compensation
(a) . As of the Effective Date, the Company will pay Executive an annual salary of $700,000 as compensation for his services (such annual salary, as is then effective, to be referred to herein as "Base Salary"), prorated for the remainder of fiscal year 2007. The Base Salary will be paid periodically in accordance with the Company's normal payroll practices and be subject to the usual, required withholdings.
Base Salary
(b) . Executive will be eligible to receive annual cash incentive compensation payable for the achievement of performance goals established by the Board or by the Compensation Committee of the Board (the "Committee") under the Company's Executive Incentive Plan ("EIP"). During the Employment Term, Executive's target annual incentive ("Target Annual Incentive") under the EIP will be not less than 100% of Base Salary and shall otherwise be subject to the terms of the EIP. The actual earned annual cash incentive, if any, payable to Executive for any performance period will depend upon the extent to which the applicable performance goals specified by the Committee are achieved or exceeded as set forth in the EIP. For the last three quarters of fiscal year 2007, Executive's Target Annual Incentive will be set at 100% of Base Salary. Any incentive earned during the last three quarters of fiscal 2007 will be pro-rated such that Executive's Target Incentive will be 100% of Base Salary for 75% of that amount, if any, under the EIP.
Annual Incentive
(c) . As of the Effective Date, Executive will continue to be eligible to receive grants of options or other equity awards customarily granted to executive officers, at the sole discretion of the Board or the Committee.
Stock Options
4. . During the Employment Term, Executive will be eligible to participate in accordance with the terms of all Company employee health and dental insurance and other benefit plans, policies, and arrangements that are applicable to other senior executives of the Company, as such plans, policies, and arrangements may exist from time to time. Executive will be entitled to four (4) weeks of paid annual vacation.
Employee Benefits
5. . The Company will reimburse Executive for reasonable travel, entertainment, and other expenses incurred by Executive in the furtherance of the performance of Executive's duties hereunder, in accordance with the Company's expense reimbursement policy as in effect from time to time.
Expenses
6. . In the event Executive's employment with the Company terminates for any reason, Executive will be entitled to any (a) unpaid Base Salary accrued up to the effective date of termination; (b) unpaid, but earned and accrued annual incentive compensation for any completed fiscal year as of his termination of employment; (c) pay for accrued but unused vacation; (d) benefits or compensation as provided under the terms of any employee benefit and compensation agreements or plans applicable to Executive; (e) unreimbursed business expenses required to be reimbursed to Executive, and (f) rights to indemnification Executive may have under the Company's Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws, or separate indemnification agreement, as applicable ("Indemnification Rights"). In addition, if the termination is by the Company without Cause or Executive resigns for Good Reason, Executive will be entitled to the amounts and benefits specified in Section 7.
Termination of Employment
 
7. .
Severance
(a) . If Executive's employment is terminated by the Company without Cause or if Executive resigns for Good Reason, and such termination is not in Connection with a Change of Control, then, subject to Section 8, Executive will receive: (i) continued payment of the aggregate of Executive's Base Salary plus the Target Annual Incentive for the year in which the termination occurs (less applicable tax withholdings) for twelve (12) months, such amounts to be paid out in accordance with the Company's normal payroll policies; (ii) twelve (12) months accelerated vesting with respect to Executive's then outstanding, unvested equity awards (other than any awards that vest based on performance), (iii) a period of not less than six (6) months to exercise any vested stock options that were granted to Executive by the Company on or after the date of this Agreement (provided that such options shall expire, if earlier, on the date when they would have expired if Executive's employment had not terminated) and (iv) if Executive validly elects to continue coverage under the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act ("COBRA), reimbursement for premiums paid for continued health benefits for Executive (and any eligible dependents) under the Company's health plans, payable when such premiums are due until the earlier of (A) twelve (12) months or (B) the date upon which Executive and Executive's eligible dependents become covered under similar plans. The severance payments under this Subsection (a) shall in no event commence prior to the earliest date permitted by Section 409A(a)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"). If the commencement of such severance payments must be delayed, as determined by the Company, then the deferred installments shall be paid in a lump sum on the earliest practicable date permitted by Section 409A(a)(2) of the Code.
Termination Without Cause or Resignation for Good Reason other than in Connection with a Change of Control
(b) . If Executive's employment is terminated by the Company without Cause or by Executive for Good Reason, and the termination is in Connection with a Change of Control, then, subject to Section 8, Executive will receive: (i) a lump sum payment in an amount equal to 100% of the aggregate of Executive's annual Base Salary plus the Target Annual Incentive for the year in which the termination occurs (less applicable tax withholdings); (ii) each of Executive's then outstanding unvested stock options and any other equity awards (other than any awards that vest based on performance), shall partially accelerate and become vested and exercisable for a number of shares that would have otherwise vested within the twenty-four (24) months following such termination of employment; (iii) a period of not less than six (6) months to exercise any vested stock options that were granted to Executive by the Company on or after the date of this Agreement (provided that such options shall expire, if earlier, on the date when they would have expired if Executive's employment had not terminated); and (iv) if Executive validly elects to continue coverage under COBRA, reimbursement for premiums paid for continued health benefits for the Executive (and any eligible dependents) under the Company's health plans, payable when such premiums are due until the earlier of (A) twelve (12) months or (B) the date upon which Executive and Executive's eligible dependents become covered under similar plans. The severance payment under this Subsection (b) shall be made within five (5) business days after Executive's employment terminates, except that such payment shall in no event be made prior to the earliest date permitted by Section 409A(a)(2) of the Code. If such payment must be delayed, as determined by the Company, then such payment shall be made on the earliest practicable date permitted by Section 409A(a)(2) of the Code.
Termination Without Cause or Resignation for Good Reason in Connection with a Change of Control
 
(c) . If Executive's employment is terminated voluntarily, including due to death or Disability, without Good Reason or is terminated for Cause by the Company, then, except as provided in Section 6, (i) all further vesting of Executive's outstanding equity awards will terminate immediately; (ii) all payments of compensation by the Company to Executive hereunder will terminate immediately, and (iii) Executive will be eligible for severance benefits only in accordance with the Company's then established plans.
Voluntary Termination Without Good Reason or Termination for Cause
(d) . If Executive's employment terminates by reason of death or Disability, then Executive will be entitled to receive benefits only in accordance with the Company's then applicable plans, policies, and arrangements.
Termination due to Death or Disability
(e) . This Agreement is intended to represent Executive's sole entitlement to severance payments and benefits in connection with the termination of his employment, except as may be provided in the Company's Executive Change in Control Program as amended and restated March 31, 2006 (the "Program"). To the extent Executive receives severance or similar payments and/or benefits under any other Company plan, program, agreement, policy, practice, or the like, severance payments and benefits due to Executive under this Agreement will be correspondingly reduced (and vice-versa), and to the extent of any conflict between the terms of this Agreement and the terms of the Program, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
Sole Right to Severance
8. .
Conditions to Receipt of Severance; No Duty to Mitigate
(a) . The receipt of any severance pursuant to Section 7 will be subject to Executive signing and not revoking a separation agreement and release of claims in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A. No severance or other benefits hereunder will be paid or provided until the separation agreement and release agreement becomes effective. Executive shall not be required to release the Indemnification Rights.
Separation Agreement and Release of Claims
(b) .The receipt of any severance or other benefits pursuant to Section 7(a) will be subject to Executive agreeing that during the Employment Term and Continuance Period, Executive will not (i) solicit any employee of the Company (other than Executive's personal assistant) for employment other than at the Company, or (ii) directly or indirectly engage in, have any ownership interest in or participate in any entity that as of the date of termination, competes with the Company in any substantial business of the Company or any business reasonably expected to become a substantial business of the Company. Executive's passive ownership of not more than 1% of any publicly traded company and/or 5% ownership of any privately held company will not constitute a breach of this Section 8(b).
Non-solicitation and Non-competition
(c) . During the Continuance Period, Executive will not knowingly and materially disparage, criticize, or otherwise make any derogatory statements regarding the Company, and the Company, in its official statements, will not and will instruct the members of the Board and executive officers not to, knowingly and materially disparage, criticize, or otherwise make derogatory statements regarding Executive. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing contained
Nondisparagement
 
in this agreement will be deemed to restrict Executive, the Company or any of the Company's current or former officers and/or directors from providing information to any governmental or regulatory agency (or in any way limit the content of any such information) to the extent they are requested or required to provide such information pursuant to applicable law or regulation.
(d) . Executive's receipt of continued severance payments will be subject to Executive continuing to comply with the terms of the Confidential Information Agreement and the provisions of this Section 8.
Other Requirements
(e) . Executive will not be required to mitigate the amount of any payment contemplated by this Agreement, nor will any earnings that Executive may receive from any other source reduce any such payment.
No Duty to Mitigate
9. .
Definitions
(a) . For purposes of this Agreement, "Cause" means: (i) Executive's engagement in acts of embezzlement, dishonesty or moral turpitude; (ii) the conviction of Executive for having committed a felony; (iii) a breach by Executive of Executive's fiduciary duties and responsibilities to the Company that result in a material adverse effect on the Company's business, operations, prospects or reputation; or (iv) gross negligence or bad faith as reasonably determined by the Board; provided that if any of the foregoing events is capable of being cured, the Company will provide written notice of Executive describing the nature of such event and Executive will thereafter have 30 days to cure such event. The foregoing shall not be deemed an exclusive list of the acts or omissions that the Company may consider as grounds for the termination of Executive's employment, but it is an exclusive list of the acts or omissions that shall be considered "Cause" for the termination of Executive's employment by the Company.
Cause
(b) . For purposes of this Agreement, "Change of Control" means (i) any "person" (as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing fifty percent (50%) or more of the total voting power represented by the Company's then outstanding voting securities; or (ii) the consummation of the sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all of the Company's assets; or (iii) the consummation of a merger or consolidation of the Company with any other corporation, other than a merger or consolidation which would result in the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity or its parent) at least sixty percent (60%) of the total voting power represented by the voting securities of the Company or such surviving entity or its parent outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation; or (iv) a change in the composition of the Board, as a result of which less than a majority of the Directors are Incumbent Directors. "Incumbent Directors" shall mean Directors who either (A) are Directors of the Company as of the date hereof, or (B) are elected, or nominated for election, to the Board with the affirmative votes of at least a majority of those Directors whose election or nomination was not in connection with any transaction described in subsections (i), (ii) or (iii) or in connection with an actual or threatened proxy contest relating to the election of directors of the Company.
Change of Control
 
(c) . For purposes of this Agreement, Disability shall have the same defined meaning as in the Company's long-term disability plan.
Disability
(d) . For purposes of this Agreement, "Good Reason" means without the Executive's written consent, (i) a material reduction in the Executive's authority or responsibilities (including reporting responsibilities) relative to the Executive's authority or responsibilities in effect immediately prior to the Change of Control or, after a Change of Control, the failure to appoint Executive as the Chief Executive Officer of a corporation whose equity securities are regularly traded on a recognized public market; (ii) a reduction in the Executive's annual Base Salary or Target Annual Incentive, other than a reduction made prior to a Change of Control that in the aggregate does not exceed 10% that also is applied to substantially all of the Company's other senior executives; or (iii) the relocation of the Executive's principal place of performing his duties as an employee of the Company by more than thirty (30) miles. Notwithstanding the foregoing, an event described in this Section shall not constitute Good Reason unless it is communicated by the Executive to the Company in writing and is not corrected by the Company in a manner which is reasonably satisfactory to such Executive (including full retroactive correction with respect to any reduction in annual Base Salary or Target Annual Incentive except as permitted in clause (ii)) within 10 days of the Company's receipt of such written notice. The failure of the Company's stockholders to elect or reelect Executive to the Board will not constitute Good Reason for purposes of this Agreement.
Good Reason
(e) . For purposes of this Agreement, "Continuance Period" will mean the period of time beginning on the date of the termination of Executive's employment and ending on the date on which Executive is no longer receiving Base Salary payments under Section 7.
Continuance Period
(f) . For purposes of this Agreement, a termination of Executive's employment with the Company is "in Connection with a Change of Control" if Executive's employment is terminated (i) within two (2) months preceding a Change of Control or (ii) within twelve (12) months following a Change of Control.
In Connection with a Change of Control
10. . Executive will be covered under the Company's insurance policies and, subject to applicable law, will be provided indemnification to the maximum extent permitted by the Company's bylaws, Certificate of Incorporation, and standard form of Indemnification Agreement, with such insurance coverage and indemnification to be in accordance with the Company's standard practices for senior executive officers but on terms no less favorable than provided to any other Company senior executive officer or director.
Indemnification and Insurance
11. . Executive has previously executed the Company's standard form of employee confidential information agreement (the "Confidential Information Agreement"). During the Employment Term, Executive further agrees to execute any updated versions of the Confidential Information Agreement (any such updated version also referred to as the "Confidential Information Agreement") as may be required of substantially all of the Company's executive officers.
Confidential Information
12. . This Agreement will be binding upon and inure to the benefit of (a) the heirs, executors, and legal representatives of Executive upon Executive's death and (b) any successor of the Company. Except for purposes of Section 8(b), any such successor of the Company
Assignment
 
will be deemed substituted for the Company under the terms of this Agreement for all purposes. For this purpose, "successor" means any person, firm, corporation, or other business entity which at any time, whether by purchase, merger, or otherwise, directly or indirectly acquires all or substantially all of the assets or business of the Company. None of the rights of Executive to receive any form of compensation payable pursuant to this Agreement may be assigned or transferred except by will or the laws of descent and distribution. Any other attempted assignment, transfer, conveyance, or other disposition of Executive's right to compensation or other benefits will be null and void.
13. . All notices, requests, demands, and other communications called for hereunder will be in writing and will be deemed given (a) on the date of delivery if delivered personally, (b) one day after being sent by a well established commercial overnight service, or (c) four days after being mailed by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, prepaid and addressed to the parties or their successors at the following addresses, or at such other addresses as the parties may later designate in writing:
Notices
If to the Company:
: Chairman of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors
Attn
Autodesk, Inc.
111 McInnis Parkway
San Rafael, CA 94903
If to Executive:
at the last residential address known by the Company as provided by Executive in writing.
14. . If any provision hereof becomes or is declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be illegal, unenforceable, or void, this Agreement will continue in full force and effect without said provision.
Severability
15. .
Arbitration
(a) . In consideration of Executive's service to the Company, its promise to arbitrate all employment related disputes, and Executive's receipt of the compensation and other benefits paid to Executive by the Company, at present and in the future, Executive agrees that any and all controversies, claims, or disputes with anyone (including the Company and any employee, officer, director, shareholder, or benefit plan of the Company in their capacity as such or otherwise) arising out of, relating to, or resulting from Executive's service to the Company under this Agreement or otherwise or the termination of Executive's service with the Company, including any breach of this Agreement, will be subject to binding arbitration under the Arbitration Rules set forth in California Code of Civil Procedure Section 1280 through 1294.2, including Section 1283.05 (the "Rules") and pursuant to California law. Disputes which Executive agrees to arbitrate, and thereby agrees to waive any right to a trial by jury, include any statutory claims under state or federal law, including, but not limited to, claims under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, the Older Workers Benefit Protection Act, the California Fair Employment and Housing Act, the California Labor Code, claims of harassment, discrimination, or wrongful termination, and any statutory claims. Executive further understands that this Agreement to arbitrate also applies to any disputes that the Company may have with Executive.
General
 
(b) . Executive agrees that any arbitration will be administered by the American Arbitration Association ("AAA") and that a neutral arbitrator will be selected in a manner consistent with its National Rules for the Resolution of Employment Disputes. The arbitration proceedings will be held in Marin County, California and will allow for discovery according to the rules set forth in the National Rules for the Resolution of Employment Disputes or California Code of Civil Procedure. Executive agrees that the arbitrator will have the power to decide any motions brought by any party to the arbitration, including motions for summary judgment and/or adjudication and motions to dismiss and demurrers, prior to any arbitration hearing. Executive agrees that the arbitrator will issue a written decision on the merits. Executive understands the Company will pay for any administrative or hearing fees charged by the arbitrator or AAA except that Executive will pay the first $200.00 of any filing fees associated with any arbitration Executive initiates. Executive agrees that the arbitrator will administer and conduct any arbitration in a manner consistent with the Rules and that to the extent that the AAA's National Rules for the Resolution of Employment Disputes conflict with the Rules, the Rules will take precedence.
Procedure
(c) . Except as provided by the Rules, arbitration will be the sole, exclusive, and final remedy for any dispute between Executive and the Company. Accordingly, except as provided for by the Rules, neither Executive nor the Company will be permitted to pursue court action regarding claims that are subject to arbitration. Notwithstanding, the arbitrator will not have the authority to disregard or refuse to enforce any lawful Company policy, and the arbitrator will not order or require the Company to adopt a policy not otherwise required by law which the Company has not adopted.
Remedy
(d) . In addition to the right under the Rules to petition the court for provisional relief, Executive agrees that any party also may petition the court for injunctive relief where either party alleges or claims a violation of this Agreement or the Confidentiality Agreement or any other agreement regarding trade secrets, confidential information, nonsolicitation or Labor Code 2870.
Availability of Injunctive Relief
(e) . Executive understands that this Agreement does not prohibit Executive from pursuing an administrative claim with a local, state, or federal administrative body such as the Department of Fair Employment and Housing, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, or the workers' compensation board. This Agreement does, however, preclude Executive from pursuing court action regarding any such claim.
Administrative Relief
(f) . Executive acknowledges and agrees that Executive is executing this Agreement voluntarily and without any duress or undue influence by the Company or anyone else. Executive further acknowledges and agrees that Executive has carefully read this Agreement and that Executive has asked any questions needed for Executive to understand the terms, consequences, and binding effect of this Agreement, including that Executive is waiving Executive's right to a jury trial. Finally, Executive agrees that Executive has been provided an opportunity to seek the advice of an attorney of Executive's choice before signing this Agreement.
Voluntary Nature of Agreement
 
16. . The Company will directly pay Executive's counsel up to $10,000 for reasonable legal and tax advice expenses incurred in connection with the negotiation and execution of this Agreement. Such payment shall be made in full within 30 days after the Company's receipt of any applicable invoices.
Legal and Tax Expenses
17. . This Agreement represents the entire agreement and understanding between the parties as to the subject matter herein and supersedes all prior or contemporaneous agreements whether written or oral, other than the Program. No waiver, alteration, or modification of any of the provisions of this Agreement will be binding unless in a writing that specifically references this Section and is signed by duly authorized representatives of the parties hereto.
Integration
18. . The waiver of a breach of any term or provision of this Agreement, which must be in writing, will not operate as or be construed to be a waiver of any other previous or subsequent breach of this Agreement.
Waiver of Breach
19. . The Confidential Information Agreement, the Company's and Executive's responsibilities under Sections 6, 7, 9, 12, 14 and 15 will survive the termination of this Agreement.
Survival
20. . All captions and section headings used in this Agreement are for convenient reference only and do not form a part of this Agreement.
Headings
21. . All payments made pursuant to this Agreement will be subject to withholding of applicable taxes.
Tax Withholding
22. . This Agreement will be governed by the laws of the State of California (with the exception of its conflict of laws provisions).
Governing Law
23. . Executive acknowledges that she has had the opportunity to discuss this matter with and obtain advice from his private attorney, has had sufficient time to, and has carefully read and fully understands all the provisions of this Agreement, and is knowingly and voluntarily entering into this Agreement.
Acknowledgment
24. . This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, and each counterpart will have the same force and effect as an original and will constitute an effective, binding agreement on the part of each of the undersigned.
Counterparts
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the parties has executed this Agreement, in the case of the Company by a duly authorized officer, as of the day and year written below.
 
 
 
This Release of Claims Agreement (the "Release Agreement") is made by and between Autodesk, Inc. (the "Company") and Carl Bass ("Executive").
WHEREAS, Executive was employed by the Company; and
WHEREAS, Executive and the Company have entered into an Employment Agreement as of ______ __, 2006 (the "Employment Agreement");
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises made herein, the Company and Executive (collectively referred to as "the Parties") hereby agree as follows:
1. . Executive's employment with the Company terminated on ______ __, 200_ (the "Termination Date").
Termination
2. . The Company agreed pursuant to Section 7 of the Employment Agreement to provide Executive with certain benefits in the event Executive's employment is terminated in specified circumstances, provided Executive executes this Release Agreement.
Consideration
3. . Executive acknowledges and represents that the Company has paid all salary, wages, bonuses, accrued vacation, commissions and any and all other benefits due to Executive as of the Termination Date, other than benefits that remain outstanding pursuant to the Employment Agreement or the Company's employee benefit plans.
Payment of Salary
4. . Executive agrees that the foregoing consideration represents settlement in full of all outstanding obligations owed to Executive by the Company, other than obligations that remain outstanding pursuant to the Employment Agreement or the Company's employee benefit plans. Executive, on behalf of Executive and his heirs, family members, executors, successors and assigns, hereby fully and forever releases the Company and its past, present and future officers, agents, directors, executives, employees, representatives, investors, shareholders, administrators, affiliates, divisions, subsidiaries, parents, predecessor and successor corporations and assigns, from, and agrees not to sue or otherwise institute or cause to be instituted any legal or administrative proceedings concerning, any claim, duty, obligation or cause of action relating to any matters of any kind, whether presently known or unknown, suspected or unsuspected, that Executive may possess arising from any omissions, acts or facts that have occurred up until and including the Effective Date (as defined below), including, without limitation:
Release of Claims
(a) Any and all claims relating to or arising from Executive's employment relationship with the Company and the termination of that relationship or any transactions between the Company, as an employer and Executive as employee;
(b) Any and all claims relating to, or arising from, Executive's right to purchase, or actual purchase of, shares of stock of the Company, including, without limitation, any claims for fraud, misrepresentation, breach of fiduciary duty, breach of duty under applicable state corporate law and securities fraud under any state or federal law;
 
(c) Any and all claims for wrongful discharge of employment; termination in violation of public policy; harassment; discrimination; retaliation; breach of contract, both express and implied; breach of a covenant of good faith and fair dealing, both express and implied; promissory estoppel; negligent or intentional infliction of emotional distress; negligent or intentional misrepresentation; negligent or intentional interference with contract or prospective economic advantage; unfair business practices; defamation; libel; slander; negligence; personal injury; assault; battery; invasion of privacy; false imprisonment; and conversion;
(d) Any and all claims for violation of any federal, state or municipal statute, including, but not limited to, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Civil Rights Act of 1991, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, the Fair Labor Standards Act, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act, the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration Act of 1970, the Older Workers Benefit Protection Act of 1990, the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993, the California Fair Employment and Housing Act, and California Labor Code Sections 201 et seq. and 970 et seq. and all amendments to each such Act as well as the regulations issued thereunder;
(e) Any and all claims for violation of the federal or any state constitution;
(f) Any and all claims arising out of any other laws and regulations relating to employment or employment discrimination; and
(g) Any and all claims for attorneys' fees and costs. Executive agrees that the release set forth in this Section 4 shall be and remain in effect in all respects as a complete general release as to the matters released. The Parties agree that the release set forth in this Section 4 shall not apply to (i) rights that Executive may have under the Employment Agreement or (ii) rights to indemnification Executive may have under the Company's Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws, or separate indemnification agreement, as applicable.
5. . Executive acknowledges that Executive is waiving and releasing any rights Executive may have under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967 ("ADEA") and that this waiver and release is knowing and voluntary. Executive and the Company agree that this waiver and release do not apply to any rights or claims that may arise under the ADEA after the Effective Date. Executive acknowledges that the consideration given for this Release Agreement is in addition to anything of value to which Executive was already entitled. Executive further acknowledges that Executive has been advised by this writing that (a) Executive should consult with an attorney prior to executing this Release Agreement; (b) Executive has at least twenty-one (21) days within which to consider this Release Agreement; (c) Executive has seven (7) days following the execution of this Release Agreement by the parties to revoke the Release Agreement; and (d) this Release Agreement shall not be effective until the revocation period has expired. Any revocation should be in writing and delivered to the General Counsel at Autodesk, Inc., 111 McInnis Parkway, San Rafael, California 94903, by close of business on the seventh day from the date that Executive signs this Release Agreement.
Acknowledgment of Waiver of Claims under ADEA
 
6. . Executive represents that Executive is not aware of any claims against the Company other than the claims that are released by this Release Agreement. Executive acknowledges that Executive has been advised by legal counsel and is familiar with the provisions of California Civil Code Section 1542, which provides as follows:
Civil Code Section 1542
A GENERAL RELEASE DOES NOT EXTEND TO CLAIMS WHICH THE CREDITOR DOES NOT KNOW OR SUSPECT TO EXIST IN HIS OR HER FAVOR AT THE TIME OF EXECUTING THE RELEASE, WHICH IF KNOWN BY HIM OR HER MUST HAVE MATERIALLY AFFECTED HIS OR HER SETTLEMENT WITH THE DEBTOR.
Executive, being aware of said code section, agrees to expressly waive any rights Executive may have thereunder, as well as under any other statute or common law principles of similar effect.
7. . Executive represents that Executive has no lawsuits, claims or actions pending in Executive's name, or on behalf of any other person or entity, against the Company or any other person or entity referred to herein. Executive also represents that Executive does not intend to bring any claims on Executive's own behalf or on behalf of any other person or entity against the Company or any other person or entity referred to herein with regard to matters released hereunder.
No Pending or Future Lawsuits
8. .
Confidentiality
(a) Executive acknowledges that Executive has been exposed to and promises to maintain the confidentiality of all confidential and proprietary information of the Company, including without limitation, information relating to: any and all research and development plans and activities; products; product plans; source code; customer lists; business plans; marketing plans and strategies; pricing and pricing strategies; Company's employees and employee compensation; and the business or confidential information of the Company's customers.
(b) Executive agrees to comply with the terms set forth in the Employee Agreements on Intellectual Property and Product Source Code and executed by Executive on or about Executive's hire date and any updated confidentiality agreement Executive may have signed while an employee (altogether "Confidential Information Agreements"). Executive agrees that any program, document, drawing, or other work Executive worked on at Company's direction or on Company time, or using Company's equipment, or using any information proprietary to Company shall remain the property of the Company.
(c) Executive hereby confirms that Executive has returned or will return all Company property in Executive's possession, and that Executive will return all confidential or proprietary information. In the event Executive violates any of these obligations, the Company shall cease making the payments and providing the benefits to Executive as provided in Section 8 of the Employment Agreement.
9. . The Parties shall each bear their own costs, expert fees, attorneys' fees and other fees incurred in connection with this Release Agreement.
Costs
 
10. . Executive represents and warrants that Executive has the capacity to act on Executive's own behalf and on behalf of all who might claim through him to bind them to the terms and conditions of this Release Agreement.
Authority
11. . Executive represents that Executive has had the opportunity to consult with an attorney and has carefully read and understands the scope and effect of the provisions of this Release Agreement. Neither party has relied upon any representations or statements made by the other party hereto which are not specifically set forth in this Release Agreement.
No Representations
12. . In the event that any provision hereof becomes or is declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be illegal, unenforceable or void, this Release Agreement shall continue in full force and effect without said provision.
Severability
13. . This Release Agreement and the Employment Agreement represent the entire agreement and understanding between the Company and Executive concerning Executive's separation from the Company and supersede and replace any and all prior agreements and understandings concerning Executive's relationship with the Company and his compensation from the Company. This Release Agreement may only be amended in writing signed by Executive and an executive officer of the Company.
Entire Agreement
14. . This Release Agreement shall be governed by the internal substantive laws, but not the choice-of-law rules, of the State of California.
Governing Law
15. . This Release Agreement is effective eight (8) days after it has been signed by both Parties (the "Effective Date").
Effective Date
16. . This Release Agreement may be executed in counterparts, and each counterpart shall have the same force and effect as an original and shall constitute an effective, binding agreement on the part of each of the undersigned.
Counterparts
17. . This Release Agreement is executed voluntarily and without any duress or undue influence on the part or behalf of the Parties hereto, with the full intent of releasing all claims. The Parties acknowledge that:
Voluntary Execution of Agreement
(a) They have read this Release Agreement;
(b) They have been represented in the preparation, negotiation and execution of this Release Agreement by legal counsel of their own choice, or they have voluntarily declined to seek such counsel;
(c) They understand the terms and consequences of this Release Agreement and of the releases it contains; and
(d) They are fully aware of the legal and binding effect of this Release Agreement.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have executed this Release Agreement on the respective dates set forth below.
 
 


