FILE:ADSK/ADSK-8K-20060919163237.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continued Listing Rule or Standard; Transfer of Listing	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continued Listing Rule or Standard; Transfer of Listing
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 3.01. Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continued Listing Rule or Standard; Transfer of Listing
Autodesk, Inc. (the "Company") announced that it will request a hearing before the Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Panel (the "Panel") in response to the receipt of a Nasdaq Staff Determination letter on September 13, 2006 indicating that the Company is not in compliance with the filing requirements for continued listing as set forth in Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(14). As anticipated, the letter was issued in accordance with NASDAQ procedures due to the delayed filing of the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 31, 2006. Pending a decision by the Panel, Autodesk shares will remain listed on the NASDAQ Stock Market.
A copy of the Company's press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: September 19, 2006
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 Autodesk, Inc. (NASDAQ: ADSK) today announced that the Company will request a hearing before the NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel in response to the receipt of a NASDAQ Staff Determination letter indicating that the Company is not in compliance with the filing requirements for continued listing as set forth in Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(14). As anticipated, the letter was issued in accordance with NASDAQ procedures due to the delayed filing of the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 31, 2006. Pending a decision by the Panel, Autodesk shares will remain listed on the NASDAQ Stock Market. There can be no assurance the Panel will grant the Company's request for continued listing.
SAN RAFAEL, Calif., September 19, 2006
About Autodesk
Autodesk, Inc. is a Fortune 1000 company, wholly focused on ensuring that great ideas are turned into reality. With seven million users, Autodesk is the world's leading software and services company for the manufacturing, infrastructure, building, media and entertainment, and wireless data services fields. Autodesk's solutions help customers create, manage and share their data and digital assets more effectively. As a result, customers turn ideas into competitive advantage, become more productive, streamline project efficiency and maximize profits.
Founded in 1982, Autodesk is headquartered in San Rafael, California. For additional information about Autodesk, please visit www.autodesk.com.


