FILE:ADSK/ADSK-8K-20070816161432.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On August 16, 2007, Autodesk, Inc. issued a press release reporting its financial results for the three months ended July 31, 2007.  The press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
This information shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
To supplement Autodesks consolidated financial statements presented on a GAAP basis, the press release furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 provides investors with certain non-GAAP measures, including historical non-GAAP net income and historical and future non-GAAP earnings per share. For our internal budgeting and resource allocation process, Autodesks management uses non-GAAP measures that do not include: (a) the stock-based compensation impact of SFAS 123R, (b) amortization of purchased intangibles and purchases of incomplete technology that result in an in-process research and development expense (c) certain payments to employees for tax issues arising from Autodesks voluntary stock option review, and (d) certain large and non-recurring litigation expenses. Autodesks management uses these non-GAAP measures in making operating decisions because we believe the measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding Autodesks earning potential. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures facilitate comparisons to competitors historical results and operating guidance.
 
As described above, Autodesk excludes the following items from its non-GAAP measures:
 
A. Stock compensation impact of SFAS 123R. These expenses consist of expenses for employee stock options and employee stock purchases under SFAS 123R. Autodesk excludes stock-based compensation expenses from our non-GAAP measures primarily because they are non-cash expenses and management finds it useful to exclude certain non-cash charges to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods. Further, as Autodesk applies SFAS 123R, we believe that it is useful to investors to understand the impact of the application of SFAS 123R to our results of operations.
 
B. Amortization of purchased intangibles and in-process research and development expenses. Autodesk incurs amortization of acquisition-related purchased intangible assets and charges related to in-process research and development, primarily in connection with its acquisition of certain businesses, such as Alias in January 2006. The amortization of purchased intangibles from a business combination is generally a non-cash expense and management finds it useful to exclude certain non-cash charges to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods.
 
C. Reimbursement to employees for tax issues arising from the stock option review. This expense consists of payments made or that may be made to our employees relating to tax payments they may incur as a result of our voluntary stock option review. Autodesk excludes these payments from our non-GAAP measures primarily because it is a non-recurring item and management finds it useful to exclude certain non-cash charges to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods.
 
D. Certain litigation expenses. These expenses relate to the accrual of certain amounts related to litigation where Autodesk determined that (1) it is probable that a liability has been incurred and (2) the amount of loss could be reasonably estimated. Autodesk excludes these litigation expenses from our non-GAAP measures because Autodesk does not consider it to be reflective of ongoing operating results in the current period.
 
There are limitations in using non-GAAP financial measures because the non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. In addition, the non-GAAP financial measures are limited in value because they exclude certain items that may have a material impact upon our reported financial results. Management compensates for these limitations by analyzing current and future results on a GAAP basis as well as a non-GAAP basis and also by providing GAAP net income and GAAP earnings per share in our earnings release. The presentation of non-GAAP financial information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The non-GAAP financial measures are meant to supplement, and be viewed in conjunction with, GAAP financial measures. Investors should review the information regarding non-GAAP financial measures provided in our press release.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)  Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

 
 
SAN RAFAEL, Calif., August 16, 2007
--
Autodesk, Inc. (NASDAQ: ADSK)
today reported record quarterly revenues of $526 million, an increase of 17 percent over the second quarter of the prior fiscal year. Second quarter net income was $92 million, or $0.38 per diluted share, on a GAAP basis and $108 million, or $0.44 per diluted share on a non-GAAP basis. Net income in the second quarter of the prior year was $87 million, or $0.36 per diluted share on a GAAP basis, and $96 million, or $0.39 per diluted share on a non-GAAP basis. A reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP results is provided at the end of this press release.
During the second quarter, we executed extremely well -- driving widespread adoption of our 3D and 2D tools, continuing to increase new seat revenue, and increasing sales in emerging economies, said Carl Bass, Autodesk president and CEO. We have been able to grow significantly by addressing our customers competitive challenges. Our numbers demonstrate that we continue to win market share as our revenues have increased significantly faster than our competitors. As a result, we are again raising our guidance for fiscal 2008, to reflect our confidence in our financial performance for the remainder of the fiscal year.
Operational Highlights
Autodesks performance in the second quarter was driven by strong increases in revenue from model-based 3D and 2D vertical design products, revenue in the emerging economies, and revenue from new seats.
The Companys model-based 3D products and 2D vertical products continue to increase their market penetration. As expected, the changes in dealer incentives implemented in the first quarter of fiscal 2008 are increasing focus on selling model-based 3D and 2D vertical products.
Combined revenues from the Companys model-based 3D products, Inventor, Revit and Civil 3D software, increased 34 percent over the second quarter of fiscal 2007 to $122 million and comprised 23 percent of total revenues. In total, Autodesk shipped more than 39,000 commercial seats of 3D in the quarter including 21,000 seats of Revit, 11,000 seats of Inventor and 7,200 seats of Civil 3D. Revenues from 2D vertical products increased 22 percent compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2007.
Once again, emerging economies contributed robust growth in revenues. Revenues from the emerging economies in Asia Pacific, Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Latin America increased 37 percent over the second quarter of fiscal 2007 to $82 million and represented 15 percent of total revenues.
Revenues from new seats increased by 17 percent compared to the second quarter of last year. Revenues from new seats of Revit and AutoCAD Mechanical were particularly strong, increasing 56 percent and 54 percent, respectively, compared to the second quarter of last year.
Upgrade revenue and maintenance revenue from subscriptions combined increased 16 percent over the second quarter of fiscal 2007 to $178 million.  Maintenance revenue from subscriptions increased 27 percent compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2007 to $132 million.
Deferred maintenance revenue from subscription increased $12 million sequentially and $100 million compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2007.
 
Total upgrade revenues decreased 7
percent
compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2007, as expected.
Crossgrade revenue, which is included in total upgrade revenue, increased 29 percent over the second quarter of last year.
 
 
 
OTHER FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS FROM THE QUARTER ENDED JULY 31, 2007
Business Outlook
 
The following statements are forward-looking statements which are based on current expectations and which involve risks and uncertainties some of which are set forth below.
 
Third Quarter Fiscal 2008
Net revenues for the third quarter of fiscal 2008 are expected to be in the range of $530 million to $540 million. GAAP earnings per diluted shares are expected to be in the range of $0.34 and $0.36. Non-GAAP earnings per diluted shares are expected to be in the range of $0.47 and $0.49 and exclude $0.11 related to stock based compensation expense as required by SFAS 123R and $0.02 for the amortization of acquisition related intangibles.
 
Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2008
Net revenues for the fourth quarter are expected to be between $575M and $585M. GAAP earnings per diluted share are expected to be in the range of $0.42 and $0.44. Non-GAAP earnings per diluted share are expected to be in the range of $0.52 and $0.54 and exclude $0.08 related to stock based compensation expense as required by SFAS 123R and $0.02 for the amortization of acquisition related intangibles.
 
Full Year Fiscal 2008
For fiscal year 2008, net revenues are expected to be between $2.14 billion and $2.16 billion. Full year GAAP earnings per diluted share are expected to be in the range of $1.48 and $1.52. Non-GAAP earnings per diluted share are expected to be in the range of $1.87 and $1.91 and exclude $0.29 related to stock based compensation expense as required by SFAS 123R, $0.04 reimbursement to employees for tax issues arising from the voluntary stock option review and $0.06 for the amortization of acquisition related intangibles.
 
Safe Harbor Statement
This press release contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including statements in the paragraphs under Business Outlook above, statements regarding anticipated market trends and other statements regarding our expected performance. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include the following: general market and business conditions, our performance in particular geographies, including emerging economies, difficulties encountered in integrating new or acquired businesses and technologies, unexpected fluctuations in our tax rate, the timing and degree of expected investments in growth opportunities, slowing momentum in maintenance or subscription revenues, failure to achieve sufficient sell-through in our channels for new or existing products, pricing pressure, fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates, failure to achieve continued cost reductions and productivity increases, failure to achieve continued migration from 2D products to 3D products, changes in the timing of product releases and retirements, failure of key new applications to achieve anticipated levels of customer acceptance, failure to achieve continued success in technology advancements, the financial and business condition of our reseller and distribution channels, interruptions or terminations in the business of the Companys consultants or third party developers, and unanticipated impact of accounting for technology acquisitions.
 
Further information on potential factors that could affect the financial results of Autodesk are included in the Companys reports on Form 10-K for the year ended January 31, 2007 and Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 30, 2007 which are on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Autodesk does not assume any obligation to update the forward-looking statements provided to reflect events that occur or circumstances that exist after the date on which they were made.
Earnings Conference Call and Webcast
Autodesk will host its second quarter conference call today at 5:00 p.m. EDT.  The live announcement may be accessed at
www.autodesk.com/investors
or by dialing 800-638-4817
 
or 617-614-3943
 
(passcode: 94897365).  An audio webcast or podcast of the call will be available at 7:00 pm EDT at
www.autodesk.com/investors
. This replay will be maintained on our website for at least twelve months. An audio replay will also be available for one month beginning at 7:00 pm EDT by dialing 888-286-8010 or 617-801-6888 (passcode:  38088167). 
About Autodesk
Autodesk, Inc. is the world leader in 2D and 3D design software for the manufacturing, building and construction, and media and entertainment markets. Since its introduction of AutoCAD software in 1982, Autodesk has developed the broadest portfolio of state-of-the-art digital prototyping solutions to help customers experience their ideas before they are real. Fortune 1,000 companies rely on Autodesk for the tools to visualize, simulate and analyze real-world performance early in the design process to save time and money, enhance quality and foster innovation. For additional information about Autodesk, visit
http://www.autodesk.com
.
Note: AutoCAD, Autodesk, Civil 3D, Inventor, and Revit are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Autodesk, Inc., in the USA and/or other countries. All other brand names, product names or trademarks belong to their respective holders.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


