FILE:ADSK/ADSK-8K-20070504165906.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Decisions Regarding Re-election to Board of Directors
On May 2, 2007, Mary Alice Taylor and Steve Scheid each informed the Board of Directors of Autodesk, Inc. ("Autodesk") that they will not seek re-election to the Autodesk Board of Directors. In order to assure a smooth transition, both Ms. Taylor and Mr. Scheid will continue to serve on the Board and Board committees through Autodesk's 2007 annual meeting of stockholders.
Autodesk is working with an executive search firm to identify new independent director candidates.
 
Consistent with previously announced plans, Autodesk is seeking the advice of the Office of Chief Accountant at the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "OCA") and on May 3, 2007, submitted to the OCA certain financial statement information arising out of adjustments related to accounting for stock-based compensation expense as a result of a voluntary review by the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors regarding timing of past stock option grants and other related issues. Autodesk intends to file its restated financial statements, as well as its delinquent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended July 31, 2006 and October 31, 2006 and its annual report on Form 10-K for fiscal year ended January 31, 2007, as soon as practicable after receiving the advice of the OCA.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: May 4, 2007


