FILE:ADSK/ADSK-8K-20080618170615.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Autodesk, Inc. (the "Company") anticipates borrowing up to $210,000,000 on its credit facility under that certain Credit Agreement (the "Credit Agreement") with Citibank, N.A. ("Citibank"), as agent and the lenders party to the Credit Agreement, to pay for certain shares of outstanding capital stock of Moldflow Corporation ("Moldflow") in connection with the Company's acquisition of Moldflow. On June 13, 2008, the Company borrowed $110,000,000 of such $210,000,000 amount.
A description of the Credit Agreement is contained in Item 1.01 of the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on August 23, 2007, which Item 1.01 is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Equity Incentive Deferral Plan
On June 12, 2008, the Compensation and Human Resources Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors (the "Board") of the Company adopted the Equity Incentive Deferral Plan, which, among other things, permits certain officers, including executive officers, of the Company to elect to defer and convert up to 50% of their bonus earned under the Company's Executive Incentive Plan into restricted stock units granted under the Company's 2008 Employee Stock Plan.
The foregoing is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Equity Incentive Deferral Plan, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Forms of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement
On June 12, 2007, the Committee approved forms of Restricted Stock Unit Agreements (the "RSU Agreements") to be issued under the Company's 2008 Employee Stock Plan.
The foregoing is qualified in its entirety by reference to the forms of RSU Agreements, copies of which are attached hereto as Exhibit 10.2 and incorporated herein by reference.
Amendments to 2000 Directors' Option Plan
In March 2008, the Board adopted, subject to stockholder approval for certain provisions, amendments to the Company's 2000 Directors' Option Plan (the "2000 Directors' Plan"). At the Annual Meeting of Stockholders of the Company held on June 12, 2008 (the "Annual Meeting"), the Company's stockholders approved the amended and restated 2000 Directors' Plan. The primary amendments to the 2000 Directors' Plan are to (1) increase the number of shares reserved for issuance thereunder by 600,000 shares and (2) address certain potential tax consequences under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
The foregoing is qualified in its entirety by reference to the 2000 Directors' Plan, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.3 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
On June 12, 2008, the Board amended Article III, Section 3.2 of the Company's Bylaws to change the number of directors from twelve (12) to ten (10). The Bylaws are filed as Exhibit 3.1 hereto and are incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: June 18, 2008
 

Exhibit 3.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.1 .
REGISTERED OFFICE
The registered office of the corporation shall be fixed in the certificate of incorporation of the corporation.
1.2 .
OTHER OFFICES
The board of directors may at any time establish branch or subordinate offices at any place or places where the corporation is qualified to do business.
2.1 .
PLACE OF MEETINGS
Meetings of stockholders shall be held at any place within or outside the State of Delaware designated by the board of directors. The board of directors may, in its sole discretion, determine that a meeting of stockholders shall not be held at any place, but may instead be held solely by means of remote communication as authorized by Section 211 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware. In the absence of any such designation, stockholders' meetings shall be held at the principal executive office of the corporation.
2.2 .
ANNUAL MEETING
The annual meeting of stockholders shall be held each year on a date and at a time designated by the board of directors. In the absence of such designation, the annual meeting of stockholders shall be held on the third Friday in June in each year at 3:00 p.m. However, if such day falls on a legal holiday, then the meeting shall be held at the same time and place on the next succeeding full business day. At the meeting, directors shall be elected, and any other proper business may be transacted.
 
2.3 .
SPECIAL MEETING
A special meeting of the stockholders may be called at any time by the board of directors, or by the chairman of the board, the chief executive officer, or the president.
2.4 .
NOTICE OF STOCKHOLDERS' MEETINGS
All notices of meetings of stockholders shall be sent or otherwise given in accordance with Section 2.6 of these bylaws not less than ten (10) nor more than sixty (60) days before the date of the meeting. The notice shall specify the place, if any, date and hour of the meeting, the means of remote communication, if any, by which stockholders and proxy holders may be deemed to be present in person and vote at such meeting and (i) in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called (no business other than that specified in the notice may be transacted) or (ii) in the case of the annual meeting, those matters which the board of directors, at the time of giving the notice, intends to present for action by the stockholders (but any proper matter may be presented at the meeting for such action). The notice of any meeting at which directors are to be elected shall include the name of any nominee or nominees who, at the time of the notice, the board intends to present for election.
2.5 .
ADVANCE NOTICE OF STOCKHOLDER NOMINEES AND STOCKHOLDER BUSINESS
(a) At an annual meeting of the stockholders, only such business shall be conducted as shall have been properly brought before the meeting. To be properly brought before an annual meeting, business must be: (i) specified in the notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by or at the direction of the board of directors, (ii) otherwise properly brought before the meeting by or at the direction of the board of directors, or (iii) otherwise properly brought before the meeting by a stockholder. For business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the secretary of the corporation. To be timely, a stockholder's notice must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the corporation not less than one hundred twenty (120) calendar days before the one year anniversary of the date on which the corporation first mailed its proxy statement to stockholders in connection with the previous year's annual meeting of stockholders. A stockholder's notice to the secretary shall set forth as to each matter the stockholder proposes to bring before the annual meeting: (A) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the annual meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting, (B) the name and address, as they appear on the corporation's books, of the stockholder proposing such business, (C) the class and number of shares of the corporation that are beneficially owned by the stockholder, (D) any material interest of the stockholder in such business, and (E) any other information that is required to be provided by the stockholder pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, in his capacity as a proponent to a stockholder proposal. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in order to include information with respect to a stockholder
 
proposal in the proxy statement and form of proxy for a stockholder's meeting, stockholders must provide notice as required by the regulations promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Notwithstanding anything in these bylaws to the contrary, no business shall be conducted at any annual meeting except in accordance with the procedures set forth in this paragraph (a). The chairman of the annual meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare at the meeting that business was not properly brought before the meeting and in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph (a), and, if he should so determine, he shall so declare at the meeting that any such business not properly brought before the meeting shall not be transacted.
(b) Only persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this paragraph (b) shall be eligible for election as directors. Nominations of persons for election to the board of directors of the corporation may be made at a meeting of stockholders by or at the direction of the board of directors or by any stockholder of the corporation entitled to vote in the election of directors at the meeting who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this paragraph (b). Such nominations, other than those made by or at the direction of the board of directors, shall be made pursuant to timely notice in writing to the secretary of the corporation in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 2.5. Such stockholder's notice shall set forth (i) as to each person, if any, whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election or re-election as a director: (A) the name, age, business address and residence address of such person, (B) the principal occupation or employment of such person, (C) the class and number of shares of the corporation that are beneficially owned by such person, (D) a description of all arrangements or understandings between the stockholder and each nominee and any other person or persons (naming such person or persons) pursuant to which the nominations are to be made by the stockholder, (E) any other information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for elections of directors, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (including without limitation such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement, if any, as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected); and (F) a written statement of such person that such person, if elected, intends to tender, promptly following such person's election or re-election, an irrevocable resignation effective upon such person's failure to receive the required vote for re-election at the next meeting at which such person would face re-election and upon acceptance of such resignation by the board of directors, in accordance with the corporation's Corporate Governance Guidelines, and (ii) as to such stockholder giving notice, the information required to be provided pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 2.5. At the request of the board of directors, any person nominated by a stockholder for election as a director shall furnish to the secretary of the corporation that information required to be set forth in the stockholder's notice of nomination which pertains to the nominee. No person shall be eligible for election as a director of the corporation unless nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this paragraph (b). The chairman of the meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare at the meeting that a nomination was not made in accordance with the procedures prescribed by these bylaws, and if he should so determine, he shall so declare at the meeting, and the defective nomination shall be disregarded.
 
These provisions shall not prevent the consideration and approval or disapproval at an annual meeting of reports of officers, directors and committees of the board of directors, but in connection therewith no new business shall be acted upon at any such meeting unless stated, filed and received as herein provided. Notwithstanding anything in these bylaws to the contrary, no business brought before a meeting by a stockholder shall be conducted at an annual meeting except in accordance with procedures set forth in this Section 2.5.
2.6 .
MANNER OF GIVING NOTICE; AFFIDAVIT OF NOTICE
Written notice of any meeting of stockholders shall be given either (i) personally, (ii) by private courier, (iii) by first or third-class United States mail, (iv) by other written communication, or (v) by other electronic or wireless means. Notices not personally delivered shall be sent charges prepaid and shall be addressed to the stockholder at the address of that stockholder appearing on the books of the corporation or given by the stockholder to the corporation for the purpose of notice. Notice shall be deemed to have been given at the time when delivered personally or by courier or deposited in the mail or sent by other means of written communication or other electronic or wireless means.
An affidavit of the mailing or other means of giving any notice of any stockholders' meeting, executed by the secretary or an assistant secretary, or of any transfer agent or any other agent of the corporation giving the notice, shall be prima facie evidence of the giving of such notice.
2.7 .
QUORUM
The holders of a majority in voting power of the stock issued and outstanding and entitled to vote thereat, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at all meetings of the stockholders for the transaction of business except as otherwise provided by statute or by the certificate of incorporation. If, however, such quorum is not present or represented at any meeting of the stockholders, then either (i) the chairman of the meeting or (ii) the stockholders entitled to vote thereat, present in person or represented by proxy, shall have power to adjourn the meeting in accordance with Section 2.8 of these bylaws.
When a quorum is present at any meeting, the vote of the holders of a majority of the stock having voting power present in person or represented by proxy shall decide any question brought before such meeting, unless the question is one upon which, by express provision of the laws of the State of Delaware or of the certificate of incorporation or these bylaws, a different vote is required, in which case such express provision shall govern and control the decision of the question.
If a quorum be initially present, the stockholders may continue to transact business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough stockholders to leave less than a quorum, if any action taken is approved by a majority of the stockholders initially constituting the quorum.
2.8 .
ADJOURNED MEETING; NOTICE
When a meeting is adjourned to another time and place, unless these bylaws otherwise require, notice need not be given of the adjourned meeting if the time, place, if any, thereof, and the means of remote communications, if any, by which stockholders and proxy holders may be deemed
 
to be present in person and vote at such adjourned meeting, are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken. At the adjourned meeting the corporation may transact any business that might have been transacted at the original meeting. If the adjournment is for more than thirty (30) days, or if after the adjournment a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting.
2.9 .
VOTING
The stockholders entitled to vote at any meeting of stockholders shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.11 of these bylaws, subject to the provisions of Sections 217 and 218 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware (relating to voting rights of fiduciaries, pledgors and joint owners, and to voting trusts and other voting agreements).
Except as may be otherwise provided in the certificate of incorporation or these bylaws, each stockholder shall be entitled to one vote for each share of capital stock held by such stockholder.
2.10 .
STOCKHOLDER ACTION BY WRITTEN CONSENT WITHOUT A MEETING
Any action required or permitted to be taken at any annual or special meeting of stockholders may be taken without a meeting, without prior notice and without a vote, if a consent or consents in writing setting forth the action so taken shall be signed by the holders of outstanding stock having not less than the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to authorize or take such action at a meeting at which all shares entitled to vote thereon were present and voted. Such consents shall be delivered to the corporation by delivery to it registered office in the state of Delaware, its principal place of business, or an officer or agent of the corporation having custody of the book in which proceedings of meetings of stockholders are recorded. Delivery made to a corporation's registered office shall be by hand or by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested.
2.11 .
RECORD DATE FOR STOCKHOLDER NOTICE; VOTING
For purposes of determining the stockholders entitled to notice of any meeting or to vote thereat, the board of directors may fix, in advance, a record date, which shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the board of directors and which shall not be more than sixty (60) days nor less than ten (10) days before the date of any such meeting, and in such event only stockholders of record on the date so fixed are entitled to notice and to vote, notwithstanding any transfer of any shares on the books of the corporation after the record date.
If the board of directors does not so fix a record date, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be at the close of business on the business day next preceding the day on which notice is given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the business day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held.
A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting unless the board of directors fixes a new record date for the adjourned meeting, but the board of directors shall fix a new record date if the meeting is adjourned for more than thirty (30) days from the date set for the original meeting.
 
The record date for any other purpose shall be as provided in Section 8.1 of these bylaws.
2.12 .
PROXIES
Every person entitled to vote for directors, or on any other matter, shall have the right to do so either in person or by one or more agents authorized by a written proxy signed by the person and filed with the secretary of the corporation, but no such proxy shall be voted or acted upon after three (3) years from its date, unless the proxy provides for a longer period. A proxy shall be deemed signed if the stockholder's name is placed on the proxy (whether by manual signature, typewriting, telegraphic transmission, telefacsimile or otherwise) by the stockholder or the stockholder's attorney-in-fact. The revocability of a proxy that states on its face that it is irrevocable shall be governed by the provisions of Section 212(e) of the General Corporation Law of Delaware.
2.13 .
ORGANIZATION
The chief executive officer, or in the absence of the chief executive officer, the president, or in the absence of the president, the chairman of the board, shall call the meeting of the stockholders to order, and shall act as chairman of the meeting. In the absence of the chief executive officer, the president, the chairman of the board, and all of the vice presidents, the stockholders shall appoint a chairman for such meeting. The chairman of any meeting of stockholders shall determine the order of business and the procedures at the meeting, including such matters as the regulation of the manner of voting and the conduct of business. The secretary of the corporation shall act as secretary of all meetings of the stockholders, but in the absence of the secretary at any meeting of the stockholders, the chairman of the meeting may appoint any person to act as secretary of the meeting.
2.14 .
LIST OF STOCKHOLDERS ENTITLED TO VOTE
The officer who has charge of the stock ledger of the corporation shall prepare and make, at least ten (10) days before every meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, and showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder. The corporation shall not be required to include electronic mail addresses or other electronic contact information on such list. Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, during ordinary business hours, for a period of at least ten (10) days prior to the meeting: (i) on a reasonably accessible electronic network, provided that the information required to gain access to such list is provided with the notice of the meeting, or (ii) during ordinary business hours, at the corporation's principal executive office. In the event that the corporation determines to make the list available on an electronic network, the corporation may take reasonable steps to ensure that such information is available only to stockholders of the corporation. If the meeting is to be held at a place, then the list shall be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time thereof, and may be inspected by any stockholder who is present. If the meeting is to be held solely by means of remote communication, then the list shall also be open to the examination of any
 
stockholder during the whole time of the meeting on a reasonably accessible electronic network, and the information required to access such list shall be provided with the notice of the meeting. The stock ledger shall be the only evidence as to who are the stockholders entitled to examine the stock ledger, the list of stockholders or the books of the corporation, or to vote in person or by proxy at any meeting of stockholders and of the number of shares held by each such stockholder.
2.15
INSPECTORS OF ELECTION
Before any meeting of stockholders, the board of directors may appoint an inspector or inspectors of election to act at the meeting or its adjournment. If no inspector of election is so appointed, then the chairman of the meeting may, and on the request of any stockholder or a stockholder's proxy shall, appoint an inspector or inspectors of election to act at the meeting. The number of inspectors shall be either one (1) or three (3). If inspectors are appointed at a meeting pursuant to the request of one (1) or more stockholders or proxies, then the holders of a majority of the voting power of shares or their proxies present at the meeting shall determine whether one (1) or three (3) inspectors are to be appointed. If any person appointed as inspector fails to appear or fails or refuses to act, then the chairperson of the meeting may, and upon the request of any stockholder or a stockholder's proxy shall, appoint a person to fill that vacancy.
Such inspectors shall:
(i) determine the number of shares outstanding and the voting power of each, the number of shares represented at the meeting, the existence of a quorum, and the authenticity, validity, and effect of proxies;
(ii) receive votes, ballots or consents;
(iii) hear and determine all challenges and questions in any way arising in connection with the right to vote;
(iv) count and tabulate all votes or consents;
(v) determine when the polls shall close;
(vi) determine the result; and
(vii) do any other acts that may be proper to conduct the election or vote with fairness to all stockholders.
 
3.1 .
POWERS
Subject to the provisions of the General Corporation Law of Delaware and to any limitations in the certificate of incorporation or these bylaws relating to action required to be approved by the stockholders or by the outstanding shares, the business and affairs of the corporation shall be managed and all corporate powers shall be exercised by or under the direction of the board of directors.
3.2 .
NUMBER OF DIRECTORS
The board of directors shall consist of ten (10) members. The number of directors may be changed by an amendment to this bylaw, duly adopted by the board of directors or by the stockholders, or by a duly adopted amendment to the certificate of incorporation.
3.3 .
ELECTION AND TERM OF OFFICE OF DIRECTORS
Except as provided in Section 3.4 of these bylaws, directors shall be elected at each annual meeting of stockholders to hold office until the next annual meeting. A nominee for director shall be elected to the board of directors if the votes cast for such nominee's election exceed the votes cast against such nominee's election; provided, however, that directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast at any meeting of stockholders for which (i) the secretary of the corporation receives a notice that a stockholder has nominated a person for election to the board of directors in compliance with the advance notice requirements for stockholder nominees for director set forth in Section 2.5 of these bylaws and (ii) such nomination has not been withdrawn by such stockholder on or prior to the day next preceding the date the corporation first mails its notice of meeting for such meeting to the stockholders. If directors are to be elected by a plurality of the votes cast, stockholders shall not be permitted to vote against a nominee. Each director, including a director elected or appointed to fill a vacancy, shall hold office until the expiration of the term for which elected and until a successor has been elected and qualified. Directors need not be stockholders unless so required by the certificate of incorporation or these bylaws. The certificate of incorporation or these bylaws may prescribe other qualifications for directors.
3.4 .
RESIGNATION AND VACANCIES
Any director may resign effective on giving notice in writing or by electronic transmission to the chairman of the board, the president, the secretary or the board of directors, unless the notice specifies a later time for that resignation to become effective. If the resignation of a director is effective at a future time, the board of directors may elect a successor to take office when the resignation becomes effective.
Vacancies in the board of directors may be filled by a majority of the remaining directors, even if less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director; however, a vacancy created by the removal of a director by the vote of the stockholders or by court order may be filled only by the affirmative vote of a majority of the shares represented and voting at a duly held meeting at which a quorum is present (which shares voting affirmatively also constitute a majority of the required quorum). Each director so elected shall hold office until the next annual meeting of the stockholders and until a successor has been elected and qualified.
 
Unless otherwise provided in the certificate of incorporation or these bylaws:
(i) Vacancies and newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors elected by all of the stockholders having the right to vote as a single class may be filled by a majority of the directors then in office, although less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director.
(ii) Whenever the holders of any class or classes of stock or series thereof are entitled to elect one or more directors by the provisions of the certificate of incorporation, vacancies and newly created directorships of such class or classes or series may be filled by a majority of the directors elected by such class or classes or series thereof then in office, or by a sole remaining director so elected.
If at any time, by reason of death or resignation or other cause, the corporation should have no directors in office, then any officer or any stockholder or an executor, administrator, trustee or guardian of a stockholder, or other fiduciary entrusted with like responsibility for the person or estate of a stockholder, may call a special meeting of stockholders in accordance with the provisions of the certificate of incorporation or these bylaws, or may apply to the Court of Chancery for a decree summarily ordering an election as provided in Section 211 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware.
If, at the time of filling any vacancy or any newly created directorship, the directors then in office constitute less than a majority of the whole board (as constituted immediately prior to any such increase), then the Court of Chancery may, upon application of any stockholder or stockholders holding at least ten (10) percent of the total number of the shares at the time outstanding having the right to vote for such directors, summarily order an election to be held to fill any such vacancies or newly created directorships, or to replace the directors chosen by the directors then in office as aforesaid, which election shall be governed by the provisions of Section 211 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware as far as applicable.
3.5 .
REMOVAL OF DIRECTORS
Unless otherwise restricted by statute, by the certificate of incorporation or by these bylaws, any director or the entire board of directors may be removed, with or without cause, by the holders of a majority of the shares then entitled to vote at an election of directors; provided, however, that, if and so long as stockholders of the corporation are entitled to cumulative voting, if less than the entire board is to be removed, no director may be removed without cause if the votes cast against his removal would be sufficient to elect him if then cumulatively voted at an election of the entire board of directors.
3.6 .
PLACE OF MEETINGS; MEETINGS BY TELEPHONE
Regular meetings of the board of directors may be held at anyplace within or outside the State of Delaware that has been designated from time to time by resolution of the board. In the absence of such a designation, regular meetings shall be held at the principal executive office of the corporation. Special meetings of the board may be held at any place within or outside the State of Delaware that has been designated in the notice of the meeting or, if not stated in the notice or if there is no notice, at the principal executive office of the corporation.
 
Any meeting of the board, regular or special, may be held by conference telephone or similar communication equipment, so long as all directors participating in the meeting can hear one another; and all such participating directors shall be deemed to be present in person at the meeting.
3.7 .
FIRST MEETINGS
The first meeting of each newly elected board of directors shall be held at such time and place as shall be fixed by the vote of the stockholders at the annual meeting. In the event of the failure of the stockholders to fix the time or place of such first meeting of the newly elected board of directors, or in the event such meeting is not held at the time and place so fixed by the stockholders, the meeting may be held at such time and place as shall be specified in a notice given as hereinafter provided for special meetings of the board of directors, or as shall be specified in a written waiver signed by all of the directors.
3.8 .
REGULAR MEETINGS
Regular meetings of the board of directors may be held without notice at such time as shall from time to time be determined by the board of directors. If any regular meeting day shall fall on a legal holiday, then the meeting shall be held at the same time and place on the next succeeding full business day.
3.9 .
SPECIAL MEETINGS; NOTICE
Special meetings of the board of directors for any purpose or purposes may be called at any time by the chairman of the board, the president, the chief executive officer, any vice president, the secretary or any two directors.
Notice of the time and place of special meetings shall be (i) delivered personally by hand, by courier or by telephone, (ii) sent by United States first-class mail, postage prepaid (iii) sent by facsimile, or (iv) sent by electronic mail or other electronic or wireless means, charges prepaid, addressed to each director at that director's address, telephone number, facsimile number or electronic mail address, as the case may be, as it is shown on the records of the corporation. If the notice is (i) delivered personally by hand, by courier or by telephone, (ii) sent by facsimile or (iii) sent by electronic mail or other electronic or wireless means, it shall be delivered or sent at least 24 hours before the time of the holding of the meeting. If the notice is sent by United States mail, it shall be deposited in the United States mail at least four (4) days before the time of the holding of the meeting. Any oral notice given personally or by telephone may be communicated either to the director or to a person at the office of the director who the person giving the notice has reason to believe will promptly communicate it to the director. The notice need not specify the purpose or the place of the meeting, if the meeting is to be held at the principal executive office of the corporation.
 
3.10 .
QUORUM
A majority of the authorized number of directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, except to adjourn as provided in Section 3.12 of these bylaws. Every act or decision done or made by a majority of the directors present at a duly held meeting at which a quorum is present shall be regarded as the act of the board of directors, subject to the provisions of the certificate of incorporation and applicable law.
A meeting at which a quorum is initially present may continue to transact business notwithstanding the withdrawal of directors, if any action taken is approved by at least a majority of the quorum for that meeting.
3.11 .
WAIVER OF NOTICE
Notice of a meeting need not be given to any director (i) who signs a waiver of notice, whether before or after the meeting, or (ii) who attends the meeting other than for the express purposed of objecting at the beginning of the meeting to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened. All such waivers shall be filed with the corporate records or made part of the minutes of the meeting. A waiver of notice need not specify the purpose of any regular or special meeting of the board of directors.
3.12 .
ADJOURNMENT
A majority of the directors present, whether or not constituting a quorum, may adjourn any meeting of the board to another time and place.
3.13 .
NOTICE OF ADJOURNMENT
Notice of the time and place of holding an adjourned meeting of the board need not be given unless the meeting is adjourned for more than twenty-four (24) hours. If the meeting is adjourned for more than twenty-four (24) hours, then notice of the time and place of the adjourned meeting shall be given before the adjourned meeting takes place, in the manner specified in Section 3.9 of these bylaws, to the directors who were not present at the time of the adjournment.
3.14 .
BOARD ACTION BY WRITTEN CONSENT WITHOUT A MEETING
Any action required or permitted to be taken by the board of directors may be taken without a meeting, provided that all members of the board individually or collectively consent in writing or by electronic transmission to that action. Such action by written consent or electronic transmission shall have the same force and effect as a unanimous vote of the board of directors. Such written consent and any counterparts thereof or electronic transmission or transmissions shall be filed with the minutes of the proceedings of the board of directors.
 
3.15 .
FEES AND COMPENSATION OF DIRECTORS
Directors and members of committees may receive such compensation, if any, for their services and such reimbursement of expenses as may be fixed or determined by resolution of the board of directors. This Section 3.15 shall not be construed to preclude any director from serving the corporation in any other capacity as an officer, agent, employee or otherwise and receiving compensation for those services.
3.16 .
APPROVAL OF LOANS TO OFFICERS
Subject to the last sentence hereof, the corporation may lend money to, or guarantee any obligation of, or otherwise assist any employee of the corporation or its subsidiaries, whenever, in the judgment of the directors, such loan, guaranty or assistance may reasonably be expected to benefit the corporation. The loan, guaranty or other assistance may be with or without interest and may be unsecured, or secured in such manner as the board of directors shall approve, including, without limitation, a pledge of shares of stock of the corporation. Nothing contained in this section shall be deemed to deny, limit or restrict the powers of guaranty or warranty of the corporation at common law or under any statute. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the corporation shall in no event make any new loan to any director of executive officer or make any material modification to any existing loan.
3.17 .
SOLE DIRECTOR PROVIDED BY CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION
In the event only one director is required by these bylaws or the certificate of incorporation, then any reference herein to notices, waivers, consents, meetings or other actions by a majority or quorum of the directors shall be deemed to refer to such notice, waiver, etc., by such sole director, who shall have all the rights and duties and shall be entitled to exercise all of the powers and shall assume all the responsibilities otherwise herein described as given to the board of directors.
4.1 .
COMMITTEES OF DIRECTORS
The board of directors may, by resolution adopted by a majority of the authorized number of directors, designate one (1) or more committees, each consisting of one (1) or more of the directors, to serve at the pleasure of the board. The board may designate one (1) or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee. The appointment of members or alternate members of a committee requires the vote of a majority of the authorized number of directors. Any committee, to the extent provided in the resolution of the board, shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the board, but no such committee shall have the power or authority to (i) approve or adopt or recommend to the stockholders any action or matter that requires the approval of the stockholders, (ii) amend the certificate of incorporation (except that a committee may, to the extent authorized in the resolution
 
or resolutions providing for the issuance of shares of stock adopted by the board of directors as provided in Section 151(a) of the General Corporation Law of Delaware, fix the designations and any of the preferences or rights of such shares relating to dividends, redemption, dissolution, any distribution of assets of the corporation or the conversion into, or the exchange of such shares for, shares of any other class or classes or any other series of the same or any other class or classes of stock of the corporation), or (iii) adopt, amend, or repeal any bylaw of the corporation.
4.2 .
MEETINGS AND ACTION OF COMMITTEES
Meetings and actions of committees shall be governed by, and held and taken in accordance with, the following provisions of Article III of these bylaws: Section 3.6 (place of meetings; meetings by telephone), Section 3.8 (regular meetings), Section 3.9 (special meetings; notice), Section 3.10 (quorum), Section 3.11 (waiver of notice), Section 3.12 (adjournment), Section 3.13 (notice of adjournment) and Section 3.14 (board action by written consent without meeting), with such changes in the context of those bylaws as are necessary to substitute the committee and its members for the board of directors and its members; provided, however, that the time of regular meetings of committees may be determined either by resolution of the board of directors or by resolution of the committee, that special meetings of committees may also be called by resolution of the board of directors, and that notice of special meetings of committees shall also be given to all alternate members, who shall have the right to attend all meetings of the committee. The board of directors may adopt rules for the government of any committee not inconsistent with the provisions of these bylaws.
4.3 .
COMMITTEE MINUTES
Each committee shall keep regular minutes of its meetings and report the same to the board of directors when required.
5.1 .
OFFICERS
The Corporate Officers of the corporation shall be a chief executive officer, a president, a secretary and a chief financial officer. The corporation may also have, at the discretion of the board of directors, a chairman of the board, one or more vice presidents (however denominated), one or more assistant secretaries, one or more assistant treasurers, and such other officers as may be appointed in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.3 of these bylaws. Any number of offices may be held by the same person.
 
In addition to the Corporate Officers of the Company described above, there may also be such Administrative (or non-executive) Officers of the corporation as may be designated and appointed from time to time by the chief executive officer of the corporation in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.13 of these bylaws.
5.2 .
ELECTION OF OFFICERS
The Corporate Officers of the corporation, except such officers as may be appointed in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.3 or Section 5.5 of these bylaws, shall be chosen by the board of directors, subject to the rights, if any, of an officer under any contract of employment, and shall hold their respective offices for such terms as the board of directors may from time to time determine.
5.3 .
SUBORDINATE OFFICERS
The board of directors may appoint, or may empower the chief executive officer to appoint such executive officers who are not Corporate Officers as the business of the corporation may require, each of whom shall hold office for such period, have such power and authority, and perform such duties as are provided in these bylaws or as the board of directors may from time to time determine.
The chief executive officer may from time to time designate and appoint Administrative (or non-executive) Officers of the corporation in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.13 of these bylaws.
5.4 .
REMOVAL AND RESIGNATION OF OFFICERS
Subject to the rights, if any, of an executive officer under any contract of employment, any executive officer may be removed, either with or without cause, by the board of directors at any regular or special meeting of the board or, except in case of an executive officer chosen by the board of directors, by any Corporate Officer upon whom such power of removal may be conferred by the board of directors.
Any executive officer may resign at any time by giving written notice to the corporation. Any resignation shall take effect at the date of the receipt of that notice or at any later time specified in that notice; and, unless otherwise specified in that notice, the acceptance of the resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective. Any resignation is without prejudice to the rights, if any, of the corporation under any contract to which the executive officer is a party.
Any Administrative (or non-executive) Officer may be removed, either with or without cause, at any time by the chief executive officer. Any Administrative (or non-executive) Officer may resign at any time by giving written notice to the chief executive officer or to the secretary of the corporation.
 
5.5 .
VACANCIES IN OFFICES
A vacancy in any office because of death, resignation, removal, disqualification or any other cause shall be filled in the manner prescribed in these bylaws for regular appointments to that office.
5.6 .
CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD
The chairman of the board, if such an officer be elected, shall, if present, preside at meetings of the board of directors and exercise such other powers and perform such other duties as may from time to time be assigned to him by the board of directors or as may be prescribed by these bylaws. If there is no chairman of the board, then the chief executive officer of the corporation shall have the powers and duties prescribed herein.
5.7 .
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
Subject to such supervisory powers, if any, as may be given by the board of directors to the chairman of the board, if there be such an officer, the chief executive officer of the corporation shall, subject to the control of the board of directors, have general supervision, direction and control of the business and the officers of the corporation. He or she shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders and, in the absence or nonexistence of a chairman of the board, at all meetings of the board of directors.
5.8 .
PRESIDENT
Subject to such supervisory powers, if any, as may be given by the board of directors to the chief executive officer, if there be such an officer, the president of the corporation shall, subject to the control of the board of directors, have general supervision over the operations of the corporation. He or she shall have the general powers and duties of management usually vested in the office of president of a corporation, and shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the board of directors or these bylaws.
5.9 .
VICE PRESIDENTS
In the absence or disability of the president, and if there is no chairman of the board, the vice presidents, if any, in order of their rank as fixed by the board of directors or, if not ranked, a vice president designated by the board of directors, shall perform all the duties of the president and when so acting shall have all the powers of, and be subject to all the restrictions upon, the president. The vice presidents shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as from time to time may be prescribed for them respectively by the board of directors, these bylaws, the president or the chairman of the board.
5.10 .
SECRETARY
The secretary shall keep or cause to be kept, at the principal executive office of the corporation or such other place as the board of directors may direct, a book of minutes of all meetings and actions of the board of directors, committees of directors and stockholders. The minutes shall show the time and place of each meeting, whether regular or special (and, if special, how authorized and the notice given), the names of those present at directors' meetings or committee meetings, the number of shares present or represented at stockholders' meetings and the proceedings thereof.
 
The secretary shall keep, or cause to be kept, at the principal executive office of the corporation or at the office of the corporation's transfer agent or registrar, as determined by resolution of the board of directors, a share register or a duplicate share register, showing the names of all stockholders and their addresses, the number and classes of shares held by each, the number and date of certificates evidencing such shares and the number and date of cancellation of every certificate surrendered for cancellation.
The secretary shall give, or cause to be given, notice of all meetings of the stockholders and of the board of directors required to be given by law or by these bylaws. He or she shall keep the seal of the corporation, if one be adopted, in safe custody and shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the board of directors or by these bylaws.
5.11 .
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
The chief financial officer shall keep and maintain, or cause to be kept and maintained, adequate and correct books and records of accounts of the properties and business transactions of the corporation, including accounts of its assets, liabilities, receipts, disbursements, gains, losses, capital, retained earnings and shares. The books of account shall at all reasonable times be open to inspection by any director for a purpose reasonably related to his position as a director.
The chief financial officer shall deposit all money and other valuables in the name and to the credit of the corporation with such depositaries as may be designated by the board of directors. He or she shall disburse the funds of the corporation as may be ordered by the board of directors, shall render to the president and directors, whenever they request it, an account of all of his or her transactions as chief financial officer and of the financial condition of the corporation, and shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the board of directors or these bylaws.
5.12 .
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
The assistant secretary, if any, or, if there is more than one, the assistant secretaries in the order determined by the board of directors (or if there be no such determination, then in the order of their election) shall, in the absence of the secretary or in the event of his or her inability or refusal to act, perform the duties and exercise the powers of the secretary and shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as the board of directors may from time to time prescribe.
5.13 .
ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICERS
In addition to the Corporate Officers of the corporation as provided in Section 5.1 of these bylaws and such subordinate executive officers as may be appointed in accordance with Section 5.3 of these bylaws, there may also be such Administrative (or non-executive) officers of the corporation
 
as may be designated and appointed from time to time by the chief executive officer of the corporation. Administrative Officers shall perform such duties and have such powers as from time to time may be determined by the chief executive officer or the board of directors in order to assist the Corporate Officers in the furtherance of their duties. In the performance of such duties and the exercise of such powers, however, such Administrative Officers shall have limited authority to act on behalf of the corporation as the board of directors shall establish, including but not limited to limitations on the dollar amount and on the scope of agreements or commitments that may be made by such Administrative Officers on behalf of the corporation, which limitations may not be exceeded by such individuals or altered by the chief executive officer without further approval by the board of directors.
5.14 .
AUTHORITY AND DUTIES OF OFFICERS
In addition to the foregoing powers, authority and duties, all officers of the corporation shall respectively have such authority and powers and perform such duties in the management of the business of the corporation as may be designated from time to time by the board of directors.
6.1 .
INDEMNIFICATION OF DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS
The corporation shall, to the maximum extent and in the manner permitted by the General Corporation Law of Delaware as the same now exists or may hereafter be amended, indemnify any person against expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines, and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred in connection with any threatened, pending or completed action, suit, or proceeding in which such person was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party by reason of the fact that such person is or was a director or officer of the corporation. For purposes of this Section 6.1, a "director" or "officer" of the corporation shall mean any person (i) who is or was a director or officer of the corporation, (ii) who is or was serving at the request of the corporation as a director or officer of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, or (iii) who was a director or officer of a corporation which was a predecessor corporation of the corporation or of another enterprise at the request of such predecessor corporation.
The corporation shall be required to indemnify a director or officer in connection with an action, suit, or proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such director or officer only if the initiation of such action, suit, or proceeding (or part thereof) by the director or officer was authorized by the board of Directors of the corporation.
The corporation shall pay the expenses (including attorney's fees) incurred by a director or officer of the corporation entitled to indemnification hereunder in defending any action, suit or proceeding referred to in this Section 6.1 in advance of its final disposition; provided, however, that
 
payment of expenses incurred by a director or officer of the corporation in advance of the final disposition of such action, suit or proceeding shall be made only upon receipt of an undertaking by the director or officer to repay all amounts advanced if it should ultimately be determined that the director or officer is not entitled to be indemnified under this Section 6.1 or otherwise.
The rights conferred on any person by this Article shall not be exclusive of any other rights which such person may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, provision of the corporation's Certificate of Incorporation, these bylaws, agreement, vote of the stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise.
Any repeal or modification of the foregoing provisions of this Article shall not adversely affect any right or protection hereunder of any person in respect of any act or omission occurring prior to the time of such repeal or modification.
6.2 .
INDEMNIFICATION OF OTHERS
The corporation shall have the power, to the maximum extent and in the manner permitted by the General Corporation Law of Delaware as the same now exists or may hereafter be amended, to indemnify any person (other than directors and officers) against expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines, and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred in connection with any threatened, pending or completed action, suit, or proceeding, in which such person was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party by reason of the fact that such person is or was an employee or agent of the corporation. For purposes of this Section 6.2, an "employee" or "agent" of the corporation (other than a director or officer) shall mean any person (i) who is or was an employee or agent of the corporation, (ii) who is or was serving at the request of the corporation as an employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, or (iii) who was an employee or agent of a corporation which was a predecessor corporation of the corporation or of another enterprise at the request of such predecessor corporation.
6.3 .
INSURANCE
The corporation may purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person who is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any liability asserted against him or her and incurred by him or her in any such capacity, or arising out of his or her status as such, whether or not the corporation would have the power to indemnify him or her against such liability under the provisions of the General Corporation Law of Delaware.
 
7.1 .
MAINTENANCE AND INSPECTION OF RECORDS
The corporation shall, either at its principal executive office or at such place or places as designated by the board of directors, keep a record of its stockholders listing their names and addresses and the number and class of shares held by each stockholder, a copy of these bylaws as amended to date, accounting books and other records of its business and properties.
Any stockholder of record, in person or by attorney or other agent, shall, upon written demand under oath stating the purpose thereof, have the right during the usual hours for business to inspect for any proper purpose the corporation's stock ledger, a list of its stockholders, and its other books and records and to make copies or extracts therefrom. A proper purpose shall mean a purpose reasonably related to such person's interest as a stockholder. In every instance where an attorney or other agent is the person who seeks the right to inspection, the demand under oath shall be accompanied by a power of attorney or such other writing that authorizes the attorney or other agent to so act on behalf of the stockholder. The demand under oath shall be directed to the corporation at its registered office in Delaware or at its principal place of business.
7.2 .
INSPECTION BY DIRECTORS
Any director shall have the right to examine the corporation's stock ledger, a list of its stockholders and its other books and records for a purpose reasonably related to his or her position as a director.
7.3 .
REPRESENTATION OF SHARES OF OTHER CORPORATIONS
The chairman of the board, if any, the chief executive officer, the president, any vice president, the chief financial officer, the secretary or any assistant secretary of this corporation, or any other person authorized by the board of directors or the president or a vice president, is authorized to vote, represent and exercise on behalf of this corporation all rights incident to any and all shares of the stock of any other corporation or corporations standing in the name of this corporation. The authority herein granted may be exercised either by such person directly or by any other person authorized to do so by proxy or power of attorney duly executed by such person having the authority.
7.4 .
CERTIFICATION AND INSPECTION OF BYLAWS
The original or a copy of these bylaws, as amended or otherwise altered to date, certified by the secretary, shall be kept at the corporation's principal executive office and shall be open to inspection by the stockholders of the corporation, at all reasonable times during office hours.
 
8.1 .
RECORD DATE FOR PURPOSES OTHER THAN NOTICE AND VOTING
For purposes of determining the stockholders entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights or the stockholders entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock, or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the board of directors may fix, in advance, a record date, which shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted and which shall not be more than sixty (60) days before any such action. In that case, only stockholders of record at the close of business on the date so fixed are entitled to receive the dividend, distribution or allotment of rights, or to exercise such rights, as the case may be, notwithstanding any transfer of any shares on the books of the corporation after the record date so fixed, except as otherwise provided by law.
If the board of directors does not so fix a record date, then the record date for determining stockholders for any such purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the board of directors adopts the applicable resolution.
8.2 .
CHECKS; DRAFTS; EVIDENCES OF INDEBTEDNESS
From time to time, the board of directors shall determine by resolution which person or persons may sign or endorse all checks, drafts, other orders for payment of money, notes or other evidences of indebtedness that are issued in the name of or payable to the corporation, and only the persons so authorized shall sign or endorse those instruments.
8.3 .
CORPORATE CONTRACTS AND INSTRUMENTS: HOW EXECUTED
The board of directors, except as otherwise provided in these bylaws, may authorize and empower any officer or officers, or agent or agents, to enter into any contract or execute any instrument in the name of and on behalf of the corporation; such power and authority may be general or confined to specific instances. Unless so authorized or ratified by the board of directors or within the agency power of an officer, no officer, agent or employee shall have any power or authority to bind the corporation by any contract or engagement or to pledge its credit or to render it liable for any purpose or for any amount.
8.4 .
STOCK CERTIFICATES; TRANSFER; PARTLY PAID SHARES
The shares of the corporation shall be represented by certificates, provided that the board of directors of the corporation may provide by resolution or resolutions that some or all of any or all classes or series of its stock shall be uncertificated shares. Any such resolution shall not apply to
 
shares represented by a certificate until such certificate is surrendered to the corporation. Notwithstanding the adoption of such a resolution by the board of directors, every holder of stock represented by certificates and, upon request, every holder of uncertificated shares, shall be entitled to have a certificate signed by, or in the name of the corporation by, the chairman or vice-chairman of the board of directors, or the president or vice-president, and by the treasurer or an assistant treasurer, or the secretary or an assistant secretary of such corporation representing the number of shares registered in certificate form. Any or all of the signatures on the certificate may be a facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate has ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the corporation with the same effect as if he or she were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue.
Certificates for shares shall be of such form and device as the board of directors may designate and shall state the name of the record holder of the shares represented thereby; its number; date of issuance; the number of shares for which it is issued; a summary statement or reference to the powers, designations, preferences or other special rights of such stock and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights, if any; a statement or summary of liens, if any; a conspicuous notice of restrictions upon transfer or registration of transfer, if any; a statement as to any applicable voting trust agreement; if the shares be assessable, or, if assessments are collectible by personal action, a plain statement of such facts.
Upon surrender to the secretary or transfer agent of the corporation of a certificate for shares duly endorsed or accompanied by proper evidence of succession, assignment or authority to transfer, it shall be the duty of the corporation to issue a new certificate to the person entitled thereto, cancel the old certificate and record the transaction upon its books.
The corporation may issue the whole or any part of its shares as partly paid and subject to call for the remainder of the consideration to be paid therefor. Upon the face or back of each stock certificate issued to represent any such partly paid shares, or upon the books and records of the corporation in the case of uncertificated partly paid shares, the total amount of the consideration to be paid therefor and the amount paid thereon shall be stated. Upon the declaration of any dividend on fully paid shares, the corporation shall declare a dividend upon partly paid shares of the same class, but only upon the basis of the percentage of the consideration actually paid thereon.
8.5 .
SPECIAL DESIGNATION ON CERTIFICATES
If the corporation is authorized to issue more than one class of stock or more than one series of any class, then the powers, the designations, the preferences and the relative, participating, optional or other special rights of each class of stock or series thereof and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights shall be set forth in full or summarized on the face or back of the certificate that the corporation shall issue to represent such class or series of stock; provided, however, that, except as otherwise provided in Section 202 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware, in lieu of the foregoing requirements there may be set forth on the face or back of the certificate that the corporation shall issue to represent such class or series of stock a statement that the corporation will furnish without charge to each stockholder who so requests the powers, the designations, the preferences and the relative, participating, optional or other special rights of each class of stock or series thereof and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights.
 
8.6 .
LOST CERTIFICATES
Except as provided in this Section 8.6, no new certificates for shares shall be issued to replace a previously issued certificate unless the latter is surrendered to the corporation and cancelled at the same time. The board of directors may, in case any share certificate or certificate for any other security is lost, stolen or destroyed, authorize the issuance of replacement certificates on such terms and conditions as the board may require; the board may require indemnification of the corporation secured by a bond or other adequate security sufficient to protect the corporation against any claim that may be made against it, including any expense or liability, on account of the alleged loss, theft or destruction of the certificate or the issuance of the replacement certificate.
8.7 .
TRANSFER AGENTS AND REGISTRARS
The board of directors may appoint one or more transfer agents or transfer clerks, and one or more registrars, each of which shall be an incorporated bank or trust company  either domestic or foreign, who shall be appointed at such times and places as the requirements of the corporation may necessitate and the board of directors may designate.
8.8 .
CONSTRUCTION; DEFINITIONS
Unless the context requires otherwise, the general provisions, rules of construction and definitions in the General Corporation Law of Delaware shall govern the construction of these bylaws. Without limiting the generality of this provision, as used in these bylaws, the singular number includes the plural, the plural number includes the singular, and the term "person" includes both an entity and a natural person.
The original or other bylaws of the corporation may be adopted, amended or repealed by the stockholders entitled to vote; provided, however, that the corporation may, in its certificate of incorporation, confer the power to adopt, amend or repeal bylaws upon the directors. The fact that such power has been so conferred upon the directors shall not divest the stockholders of the power, nor limit their power to adopt, amend or repeal bylaws.
Whenever an amendment or new bylaw is adopted, it shall be copied in the book of bylaws with the original bylaws, in the appropriate place. If any bylaw is repealed, the fact of repeal with the date of the meeting at which the repeal was enacted or the filing of the operative written consent(s) shall be stated in said book.
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
 
Autodesk, Inc.
Equity Incentive Deferral Plan
 
Autodesk, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "") hereby establishes and maintains this Autodesk, Inc. Equity Incentive Deferral Plan (the "") which is designed to provide certain benefits to certain eligible senior executives selected by the Compensation and Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company for participation in the Deferral Plan. The Deferral Plan shall be effective as of June 12, 2008.
Company
Deferral Plan
The purpose of the Deferral Plan is to advance the interests of the Company by enhancing the ability of the Company to retain senior executives of the Company who are in a position to make important contributions to the success of the Company and to encourage Company stock ownership of such senior executives. Any Restricted Stock Units (or RSUs) awarded pursuant to the Deferral Plan shall be granted under the Company's 2008 Employee Stock Plan (the ""). Capitalized terms not otherwise defined in the Deferral Plan shall have the meanings given to them in the Plan.
Plan
The Deferral Plan is intended to comply with the requirements of Sections 409A(a)(2), (3) and (4) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations and other guidance issued by the Secretary of the Treasury thereunder. To the extent permitted by such Treasury Regulations or other guidance, the Deferral Plan may be amended to conform to the requirements of Section 409A of the Code.
1.1 .
Title
The Deferral Plan shall be known as the Autodesk, Inc. Equity Incentive Deferral Plan.
1.2 .
Definitions
Whenever the following words and phrases are used in the Deferral Plan, with the first letter capitalized, they shall have the meanings specified below.
(a) "" shall mean the individuals designated by the Committee (who need not be a member of the Committee) to handle the day-to-day Deferral Plan administration.
Administrator
(b) "" has the meaning ascribed to such term in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under the Exchange Act.
Affiliate
(c) "" has the meaning set forth in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act.
Beneficial Owner
(d) "" or "" shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company.
Board of Directors
Board
(e) "" shall mean a cash incentive award earned by a Participant under the Company's Executive Incentive Plan.
Bonus
Autodesk, Inc.
Equity Incentive Deferral Plan
 
(f) "" shall be deemed to have occurred when any event or transaction described in paragraph (1), (2), (3) or (4) occurs, subject to paragraph (5):
Change in Control
(1) Any Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing fifty percent (50%) or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities; or
(2) The following individuals cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the number of directors then serving: individuals who, on the Effective Date, constitute the Board and any new director (other than a director whose initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual or threatened election contest, including, but not limited to, a consent solicitation, relating to the election of directors of the Company) whose appointment or election by the Board or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders was approved or recommended by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still in office who either were directors on the date hereof or whose appointment, election or nomination for election was previously so approved or recommended; or
(3) There is consummated a merger or consolidation of the Company or any direct or indirect subsidiary of the Company with any other corporation, other than (A) a merger or consolidation which would result in the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior to such merger or consolidation continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity or any parent thereof), in combination with the ownership of any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company, at least a majority of the combined voting power of the securities of the Company or such surviving entity or any parent thereof outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation, or (B) a merger or consolidation effected to implement a recapitalization of the Company (or similar transaction) in which no Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company (not including in the securities beneficially owned by such Person any securities acquired directly from the Company or its affiliates other than in connection with the acquisition by the Company or its affiliates of a business) representing fifty percent (50%) or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities; or
(4) The stockholders of the Company approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company or there is consummated an agreement for the sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all of the Company's assets, other than a sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all of the Company's assets to an entity, at least a majority of the combined voting power of the voting securities of which are owned by stockholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of the Company immediately prior to such sale.
(5) An event or transaction described in paragraph (1), (2), (3), or (4) shall be a "Change in Control" only if such event or transaction is a "change in the ownership or effective control of the corporation, or in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of the corporation," within the meaning of Section 409A(a)(2)(A)(v) of the Code, to the extent provided by the Secretary of the Treasury.
(g) "" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
(h) "" shall mean the Compensation and Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors.
Committee
(i) "" shall mean Autodesk, Inc. and any successor corporations. Company shall also include each corporation which is a member of a controlled group of corporations (within the meaning of Section 414(b) of the Code) of which Autodesk, Inc. is a component member.
Company
 
Autodesk, Inc.
Equity Incentive Deferral Plan
 
(j) "" shall mean the form designated by the Committee for purposes of making deferrals under Section 3.1.
Deferral Election Form
(k) "" shall mean June 12, 2008.
Effective Date
(l) "" shall mean those Executives selected by the Committee. The Committee may, in its sole discretion, select such other individuals to participate in the Deferral Plan who do not otherwise meet the foregoing designation.
Eligible Individual
(m) "" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the applicable rules and regulations thereunder.
Exchange Act
(n) "" shall mean a senior executive of the Company who is a chief executive officer staff member and subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act, or is otherwise designated by the Committee.
Executive
(o) "" shall mean any Eligible Individual who becomes a Participant in accordance with Article II.
Participant
(p) "" means any person, entity or "group" within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or Section 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act, except that such term shall not include (1) the Company or any of its Affiliates, (2) a trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company or any of its Affiliates, (3) an underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to an offering of such securities, (4) a corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the stockholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of the Company, or (5) a person or group as used in Rule 13d-1(b) under the Exchange Act.
Person
(q) "" shall mean this Autodesk, Inc. Equity Incentive Deferral Plan set forth herein, as amended from time to time.
Deferral Plan
(r) "" shall mean the twelve (12) consecutive month period beginning on each February 1 and ending on each January 31.
Deferral Plan Year
(s) "" or "" shall mean restricted stock units granted to Executives under the Autodesk, Inc. 2008 Employee Stock Plan, or any other equity compensation plans approved by the Company's Stockholders.
Restricted Stock Units
RSUs
 
Autodesk, Inc.
Equity Incentive Deferral Plan
 
2.1 An Eligible Individual shall become a Participant in the Deferral Plan by (1) electing to make deferrals in accordance with Section 3.1 and (2) filing with the Company such other forms as the Committee may reasonably require for participation hereunder.
2.2 An Eligible Individual who completes the requirements of the preceding subsection of this Article II shall commence participation in the Deferral Plan as of the first day of the Deferral Plan Year with respect to which Bonus is elected to be deferred.
3.1 .
Elections to Defer Bonus
(a) . Each Eligible Individual may defer up to 50% (in whole percentages) of such Eligible Individual's Bonus for a Deferral Plan Year by filing with the Administrator a Deferral Election Form for such Deferral Plan Year that conforms to the requirements of this Section 3.1. Because the Bonus is performance-based compensation based on services performed over a period of at least twelve (12) months, within the meaning of Section 409A(a)(4)(B)(iii) and the Treasury Regulations thereunder, an election to defer up to 50% (in whole percentages) of such Eligible Individual's Bonus may be filed no later than six months before the end of the period over which such services are to be performed, under the terms and conditions specified by the Committee, in accordance with Section 409A(a)(4)(B)(iii) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations thereunder. A Participant shall make a separate election to defer Bonus for each Deferral Plan Year.
General Rule
(b) . In the event an Eligible Individual elects to defer up to 50% of his or her Bonus, the deferred amounts of such Bonus shall be granted to such Eligible Individual in the form of Restricted Stock Units (""); provided, that such Eligible Individual is an employee or service provider of the Company on the date of grant. The Base RSUs shall be granted under the Plan and shall be evidenced by a Restricted Stock Unit Agreement specifying the number of shares of Company common stock covered thereby, in such form as the Committee shall establish (""), and the Eligible Individual must sign such RSU Agreement as a condition of receiving the Base RSUs. The Base RSUs shall be fully vested upon the date of grant. The number of shares of Company common stock covered by the Base RSUs shall be (i) the deferred amounts of the Eligible Individual's Bonus (i.e., up to 50% of Bonus), divided by (ii) the Fair Market Value (as defined in the Plan) of a share of Company common stock on the date of grant. The Base RSUs shall be distributed in accordance with Article IV of the Deferral Plan.
Base RSUs
Base RSUs
RSU Agreement
(c) . In the event an Eligible Individual elects to defer up to 50% of his or her Bonus, the Company shall grant additional Restricted Stock Units ("") to such Eligible Individual; provided, that such Eligible Individual is an employee or service provider of the Company on the date of grant. The Premium RSUs shall be granted under the Plan and shall be evidenced by an RSU Agreement, and the Eligible Individual must sign such RSU Agreement as a condition of receiving the Premium RSUs. The Premium RSUs will fully vest on or around the third anniversary of the date of grant, subject to the Participant's continuing service to the Company through the vesting date. The number of shares of Company common stock covered by the Premium RSUs shall be (i) the number of shares of Company common stock covered by the Eligible Individual's Base RSUs, divided by (ii) three (rounded down to the next whole number of shares). The Premium RSUs shall be distributed in accordance with Article IV of the Deferral Plan.
Premium RSUs
Premium RSUs
 
Autodesk, Inc.
Equity Incentive Deferral Plan
 
(d) .
Duration of Deferral Election
(1) A Participant shall not modify or suspend his election to defer Bonus later than six months before the end of the period over which such services are to be performed.
(2) A Participant must file a new deferral election for each subsequent Deferral Plan Year. In the event a Participant fails to file a timely deferral election for the next Deferral Plan Year, the Participant shall be deemed to have elected not to defer any Bonus for such Deferral Plan Year.
3.2 . For each Deferral Plan Year in which a Participant who is an employee makes a deferral under Section 3.1, the Company shall withhold from that portion of the Participant's Bonus, in a manner determined by the Company, the Participant's share of FICA and other employment taxes on such amount. If necessary, the Committee may reduce the Participant's deferrals under Section 3.1 or make deductions from his or her deferred amounts in order to comply with this Section, to the extent permitted under Section 409A of the Code and the Treasury Regulations thereunder.
FICA and Other Taxes
3.3 . Notwithstanding any other provision of the Deferral Plan or any rule, instruction, election form or other form, the Deferral Plan and any such rule, instruction or form shall be subject to any additional conditions or limitations set forth in any applicable exemptive rule under Section 16 of the Exchange Act (including any amendment to Rule 16b-3) that are requirements for the application of such exemptive rule. To the extent permitted by applicable law, such Deferral Plan provision, rule, instruction or form shall be deemed amended to the extent necessary to conform to such applicable exemptive rule.
Compliance with Section 16 of the Exchange Act
4.1 .
Scheduled Distribution of Base RSUs and Premium RSUs
(a) . Subject to Section 4.2 below, the shares of Company common stock subject to the Base RSUs shall be distributed (i.e., settled) on a date determined by the Committee on or prior to the date of grant (the ""). The distribution date generally shall be on or around the third anniversary of the date of grant. In the Committee's sole discretion, the Base RSUs may be settled, in part or solely, in cash in lieu of shares of the Company common stock, equal to (i) the Fair Market Value of a share of Company common stock on the distribution date, multiplied by (ii) the number of Base RSUs to be distributed, subject to any applicable tax withholding.
Distribution of Base RSUs
distribution date
(b) . Subject to Section 4.2 below, the shares of Company common stock subject to the Premium RSUs shall be distributed (i.e., settled) as soon as administratively practicable after vesting, but in no event later than the 15
Distribution of Premium RSUs
th
day of the third month following the end of (i) the Company's fiscal year in which the Premium RSUs vest or (ii) the calendar year in which the Premium RSUs vest, whichever is later. In the Committee's sole discretion, the Premium RSUs may be settled, in part or solely, in cash in lieu of shares of the Company common stock, equal to (i) the Fair Market Value of a share of Company common stock on the distribute date, multiplied by (ii) the number of Premium RSUs to be distributed, subject to any applicable tax withholding.
 
Autodesk, Inc.
Equity Incentive Deferral Plan
 
4.2 .
Unscheduled Distributions of Base RSUs and Premium RSUs
(a) . In the event the Participant has a "separation from service" within the meaning of Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1(h), the shares of Company common stock subject to the Base RSUs shall be distributed (i.e., settled) on the date of such termination of employment. The unvested shares of Company common stock subject to the Premium RSUs as of the time of such separation from service shall be forfeited and automatically transferred to and reacquired by the Company at no cost to the Company and the Participant's right to acquire any shares of Company common stock under the Premium RSUs shall immediately terminate. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Participant is deemed at the time of his or her separation from service to be a "specified employee" for purposes of Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Code, then to the extent delayed distribution of the Base RSUs and Premium RSUs to which the Participant is entitled under the Deferral Plan is required in order to avoid a prohibited distribution under Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Code, such portion of the Participant's benefits shall not be provided to the Participant prior to the earlier of (A) the expiration of the six-month period measured from the date of the Participant's "separation from service" with the Company (as such term is defined in the Treasury Regulations issued under Section 409A of the Code) or (B) the date of Participant's death. The determination of whether the Participant is a "specified employee" for purposes of Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Code as of the time of his or her separation from service shall be made by the Company in accordance with the terms of Section 409A of the Code and applicable guidance thereunder (including without limitation Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1(i) and any successor provision thereto).
Distribution upon Termination of Employment
(b) . In the event of a Change in Control, the shares of Company common stock subject to the Base RSUs shall be distributed (i.e., settled) on the date of such Change in Control. The Premium RSUs shall be assumed or an equivalent restricted stock unit substituted by the successor corporation or a Parent or Subsidiary of the successor corporation.
Distribution upon Change in Control
In the event that the successor corporation refuses to assume or substitute for the Premium RSUs, the Participant shall fully vest in the shares of Company common stock as to which such Premium RSUs would not otherwise be vested and such Premium RSUs shall be distributed (i.e., settled) on the date of such Change in Control.
For the purposes of this Section, a Premium RSU shall be considered assumed if, following the Change in Control, the Premium RSU confers the right to purchase or receive, for each share subject to the Premium RSU immediately prior to the Change in Control, the consideration (whether stock, cash, or other securities or property) received in the Change in Control by holders of Company common stock for each share held on the effective date of the transaction.
(c) . In the event of the Participant's death, the vested shares of Company common stock subject to the Base RSUs shall be distributed (i.e., settled) to the Participant's estate as soon as administratively practicable after the date of death, and the unvested shares of Company common stock subject to the Premium RSUs as of the time of such death shall be forfeited and automatically transferred to and reacquired by the Company at no cost to the Company and the Participant's right to acquire any shares of Company common stock under the Premium RSUs shall immediately terminate.
Distribution upon Death
 
Autodesk, Inc.
Equity Incentive Deferral Plan
 
4.3 .
Prohibition on Acceleration of Distributions
The time or schedule of payment of any withdrawal or distribution under the Deferral Plan shall not be subject to acceleration, except as provided under Treasury Regulations promulgated in accordance with Section 409A(a)(3) of the Code.
5.1 .
Committee
The Committee shall administer the Deferral Plan in accordance with this Article.
5.2 .
Administrator
The Administrator, unless restricted by the Committee, shall exercise the powers under Sections 5.4 and 5.5 except when the exercise of such authority would materially affect the cost of the Deferral Plan to the Company or materially increase benefits to Participants.
5.3 .
Committee Action
The Committee shall act at meetings by affirmative vote of a majority of the members of the Committee. Any action permitted to be taken at a meeting may be taken without a meeting if, prior to such action, a written consent to the action is signed by all members of the Committee and such written consent is filed with the minutes of the proceedings of the Committee. A member of the Committee shall not vote or act upon any matter which relates solely to himself or herself as a Participant. The chairman or any other member or members of the Committee designated by the chairman may execute any certificate or other written direction on behalf of the Committee.
5.4 .
Powers and Duties of the Committee
(a) The Committee, on behalf of the Participants and their Beneficiaries, shall enforce the Deferral Plan in accordance with its terms, shall be charged with the general administration of the Deferral Plan, and shall have all powers necessary to accomplish its purposes as set forth herein, including, but not by way of limitation, the following:
(1) To construe and interpret the terms and provisions of the Deferral Plan and to remedy any inconsistencies or ambiguities hereunder;
(2) To select employees eligible to participate in the Deferral Plan;
(3) To compute and certify to the amount and kind of benefits payable to Participants and their Beneficiaries;
(4) To maintain all records that may be necessary for the administration of the Deferral Plan;
(5) To provide for the disclosure of all information and the filing or provision of all reports and statements to Participants, Beneficiaries or governmental agencies as shall be required by law;
 
Autodesk, Inc.
Equity Incentive Deferral Plan
 
(6) To make and publish such rules for the regulation of the Deferral Plan and procedures for the administration of the Deferral Plan as are not inconsistent with the terms hereof;
(7) To appoint a plan administrator or any other agent, and to delegate to them such powers and duties in connection with the administration of the Deferral Plan as the Committee may from time to time prescribe; and
(8) To take all actions necessary for the administration of the Deferral Plan.
5.5 . To the extent permitted by applicable law, the Committee may from time to time delegate to a committee of one or more members of the Board or one or more executives or employees of the Company its powers and duties under the Deferral Plan, including its power and authority under Section 6.2. Any delegation hereunder shall be subject to the restrictions and limits that the Committee specifies at the time of such delegation, and the Committee may at any time rescind the authority so delegated or appoint a new delegatee. At all times, the delegatee appointed under this Section 5.5 shall serve in such capacity at the pleasure of the Committee.
Delegation of Authority
5.6 .
Construction and Interpretation
The Committee shall have full discretion to construe and interpret the terms and provisions of the Deferral Plan, which interpretations or construction shall be final and binding on all parties, including but not limited to the Company and any Participant or Beneficiary. The Committee shall administer such terms and provisions in a uniform and nondiscriminatory manner and in full accordance with any and all laws applicable to the Deferral Plan.
5.7 .
Information
To enable the Committee to perform its functions, the Company shall supply full and timely information to the Committee on all matters relating to the Bonus of all Participants, their death or other events which cause termination of their participation in the Deferral Plan, and such other pertinent facts as the Committee may require.
5.8 .
Indemnity
To the extent permitted by applicable state law, the Company shall indemnify and save harmless the Committee and each member thereof, the Board of Directors and any delegate of the Committee who is an employee of the Company against any and all expenses, liabilities and claims, including legal fees to defend against such liabilities and claims arising out of their discharge in good faith of responsibilities under or incident to the Deferral Plan, other than expenses and liabilities arising out of willful misconduct. This indemnity shall not preclude such further indemnities as may be available under insurance purchased by the Company or provided by the Company under any bylaw, agreement or otherwise, as such indemnities are permitted under state law.
5.9 .
Compliance with Section 409A of the Code
The Deferral Plan shall be interpreted, construed and administered in a manner that satisfies the requirements of Sections 409A(a)(2), (3) and (4) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations thereunder.
 
Autodesk, Inc.
Equity Incentive Deferral Plan
 
6.1 .
Withholding
Each Participant shall pay to the Company or make provision satisfactory to the Committee for payment of any taxes required by law to be withheld in respect of the distribution of shares of Company common stock subject to the Restricted Stock Units under the Deferral Plan, no later than the date of the event creating the tax liability. In the Committee's discretion, such tax obligations may be paid in whole or in part, in any event up to the minimum amount required to be withheld based on the statutory withholding rates for federal and state tax purposes that apply to supplemental taxable income, in shares of Company common stock, including shares obtained in connection with the Restricted Stock Units, if any, valued at their Fair Market Value on the date of distribution (rounded up to the nearest whole share of Company common stock). The Company may, to the extent permitted by law, deduct any such tax obligations from any payment of any kind otherwise due to the Participant.
6.2 .
Amendment, Modification, Suspension or Termination
(a) The Committee may amend, modify, suspend or terminate the Deferral Plan in whole or in part, except that no amendment, modification, suspension or termination shall have any retroactive effect to reduce any vested amounts. In the event of Deferral Plan termination, distributions shall continue to be made in accordance with the terms of the Deferral Plan.
(b) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Deferral Plan, if and to the extent the Company shall determine that the terms of the Deferral Plan may result in the failure of the Deferral Plan, or amounts deferred by or for any Participant under the Deferral Plan, to comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code, or any applicable regulations or guidance promulgated by the Secretary of the Treasury in connection therewith, the Company shall have the authority to take such action to amend, modify, cancel or terminate the Deferral Plan or distribute any or all of the amounts deferred by or for a Participate, as it deems necessary or advisable, including without limitation:
(1) Any amendment or modification of the Deferral Plan to conform the Deferral Plan to the requirements of Section 409A of the Code or any regulations or other guidance thereunder (including, without limitation, any amendment or modification of the terms of any applicable to any Participant's Accounts regarding the timing or form of payment).
(2) Any cancellation or termination of any unvested Restricted Stock Units without any payment to the Participant.
(3) Any cancellation or termination of any Restricted Stock Units, with immediate payment to the Participant of the amount otherwise payable to such Participant.
Any such amendment, modification, cancellation, or termination of the Deferral Plan may adversely affect the rights of a Participant without the Participant's consent.
6.3 .
Governing Law
The Deferral Plan shall be construed, governed and administered in accordance with the laws of the State of California.
 
Autodesk, Inc.
Equity Incentive Deferral Plan
 
6.4 .
Limitation of Rights
Neither the establishment of the Deferral Plan nor any modification thereof, nor the creating of any fund or account, nor the payment of any benefits shall be construed as giving to any Participant or other person any legal or equitable right against the Company except as provided in the Deferral Plan. In no event shall the terms of employment of, or membership on the Board by, any Participant be modified or in any way be effected by the provisions of the Deferral Plan. The Deferral Plan shall not give rise to any right on the part of any employee participant to continue in the employ of the Company, or any subsidiary or affiliate thereof.
6.5 .
Notice
Any notice or filing required or permitted to be given to the Committee under the Deferral Plan shall be sufficient if in writing and hand delivered, or sent by electronic, registered or certified mail, to the principal office of the Company, directed to the attention of the General Counsel and Secretary of the Company. Such notice shall be deemed given as of the date of delivery or, if delivery is made by mail, as of the date shown on the postmark on the receipt for registration or certification.
6.6 .
Severability
In the event that any provision of the Deferral Plan shall be declared unenforceable or invalid for any reason, such unenforceability or invalidity shall not affect the remaining provisions of the Deferral Plan but shall be fully severable, and the Deferral Plan shall be construed and enforced as if such unenforceable or invalid provision had never been included herein.
 

Exhibit 10.2
 
 
You have been granted an award of restricted stock units, subject to the terms and conditions in the 2008 Employee Stock Plan (the "Plan") and the Terms and Conditions of Restricted Stock Units, attached hereto as (together with this Notice of Grant of Restricted Stock Units, the "Agreement"), as follows:
Exhibit A
 
Vesting Schedule:
The Restricted Stock Units shall be 100% vested on the Date of Grant.
Capitalized terms that are not defined in this Notice of Grant have the same meaning as in the Plan or the Agreement.
You and the Company agree that the restricted stock units granted by this Notice of Grant are governed by the terms and conditions of the Plan and the Terms and Conditions of Restricted Stock Units, all of which are made a part of this document and may be accessed by you in your E*Trade account. You acknowledge receipt of a copy of the Agreement and a copy of the Plan. You represent that you have carefully read and understand this Notice of Grant, the Plan, the Terms and Conditions of Restricted Stock Units and the prospectus describing the Plan and have had an opportunity to obtain the advice of counsel prior to accepting the Restricted Stock Units. You accept the Restricted Stock Units subject to all of the terms and provisions contained in each document. By accepting below, you agree to accept as binding, conclusive and final all decisions or interpretations of the Board upon any questions arising under the Plan.
In addition, by accepting this award, you agree to the following: "This electronic contract contains my electronic signature, which I have executed with the intent to sign this Agreement." Please be sure to retain a copy of your electronically signed Agreement; you may obtain a paper copy at any time and at the Company's expense by requesting one from the Company's Stock Administration Department, at Autodesk, Inc., 111 McInnis Parkway, San Rafael, CA 94903, or at such other address as the Company may hereafter designate in writing. If you prefer not to electronically sign this Agreement, you may accept this Agreement by signing a paper copy of the Agreement and delivering it to the Company's Stock Administration Department.
 
Base RSU Agreement
1. . The Company hereby grants to the participant (the "Participant") named in the Notice of Grant of Restricted Stock Units (the "Notice of Grant") under the Plan the number of Restricted Stock Units indicated on the Notice of Grant, subject to all of the terms and conditions in this Agreement and the Plan, which is incorporated herein by reference. When shares of the Company's Common Stock ("Shares") are paid to Participant in payment for the Restricted Stock Units, par value shall be deemed paid by Participant for each Restricted Stock Unit by past services rendered by Participant, and shall be subject to the appropriate tax withholdings. Unless otherwise defined herein, capitalized terms used herein shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Plan.
Grant
2. . Unless and until the Restricted Stock Units shall have vested in the manner set forth in paragraphs 3 or 4 of this Agreement or Section 13 of the Plan, Participant shall have no right to payment of any such Restricted Stock Units. Prior to actual payment of any vested Restricted Stock Units, such Restricted Stock Units shall represent an unsecured obligation of the Company, payable (if at all) only from the general assets of the Company. Payment of any vested Restricted Stock Units will be made in whole Shares only. In the Administrator's sole discretion, the Restricted Stock Units may be settled, in part or solely, in cash in lieu of Shares, equal to (i) the Fair Market Value of a Share on the Distribution Date, multiplied by (ii) the number of Restricted Stock Units to be distributed, subject to any applicable tax withholding.
Company's Obligation to Pay
3. . Except as provided in paragraph 4 of this Agreement and Section 13 of the Plan, and subject to paragraph 5 of this Agreement, the Restricted Stock Units awarded by this Agreement shall vest in accordance with the vesting provisions set forth in the Notice of Grant. Restricted Stock Units scheduled to vest on a certain date or upon the occurrence of a certain condition shall vest in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement only if Participant is continuously employed by the Company from the Date of Grant until the date such vesting occurs.
Vesting Schedule
4. . The Administrator, in its discretion, may accelerate the vesting of the balance, or some lesser portion of the balance, of the unvested Restricted Stock Units at any time, subject to the terms of the Plan. If so accelerated, such Restricted Stock Units shall be considered as having vested as of the date specified by the Administrator. Notwithstanding anything in the Plan or this Agreement to the contrary, if the distribution of any portion of the balance of the Restricted Stock Units is made in connection with Participant's "separation from service" within the meaning of Section 409A (as determined by the Company), other than due to death, and if (x) Participant is a "specified employee" within the meaning of Section 409A at the time of such termination and (y) the payment of such accelerated Restricted Stock Units shall result in the imposition of additional tax under Section 409A if paid to Participant on or within the six (6) month period following Participant's termination as an Employee, then the payment of such accelerated Restricted Stock Units shall not be made until the earlier of (A) six (6) months and one (1) day following the date of Participant's termination as an Employee or (B) Participant's death. It is the intent of this Agreement to comply with the requirements of Section 409A so that none of the Restricted Stock Units provided under this Agreement or Shares issuable thereunder shall be subject to the additional tax imposed under Section 409A, and any ambiguities herein shall be interpreted to so comply. For purposes of this Agreement, "Section 409A" means Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and any proposed, temporary or final Treasury Regulations and Internal Revenue Service guidance thereunder, as each may be amended from time to time.
Administrator Discretion
 
5. . Notwithstanding any contrary provision of this Agreement, the balance of the Restricted Stock Units that have not vested as of the time of Participant's termination as an Employee for any or no reason shall be forfeited and automatically transferred to and reacquired by the Company at no cost to the Company and Participant's right to acquire any Shares hereunder shall immediately terminate.
Forfeiture upon Termination of Status as an Employee
6. . Any Restricted Stock Units that vest in accordance with paragraph 3 will be distributed to Participant in whole Shares (or, in the Administrator's sole discretion, in cash) on the Distribution Date, as provided in the Notice of Grant, or if earlier, on the date of Participant's "separation from service" within the meaning of Section 409A, subject to paragraphs 4 and 9 and the other provisions of this Agreement.
Distribution after Vesting
7. . In the event of Participant's death, the Shares subject to the Restricted Stock Units (or, in the Administrator's sole discretion, cash in lieu of Shares) shall be distributed as soon as administratively practicable after the date of death. Any distribution or delivery to be made to Participant under this Agreement shall, if Participant is then deceased, be made to Participant's designated beneficiary, provided such beneficiary has been designated prior to Participant's death in a form acceptable to the Administrator or, if no such beneficiary has been designated or survives Participant, the administrator or executor of Participant's estate. Any such transferee must furnish the Company with (a) written notice of his or her status as transferee, and (b) evidence satisfactory to the Company to establish the validity of the transfer and compliance with any laws or regulations pertaining to said transfer.
Death of Participant
8. . In the event of a Change in Control, the Shares subject to the Restricted Stock Units (or, in the Administrator's sole discretion, cash in lieu of Shares) shall be distributed on the date of such Change in Control.
Change in Control
9. . Participant will recognize taxable income on the Restricted Stock Unit Distribution Date (the ""). On the Tax Date, Participant will be required to pay an amount to the Company to enable the Company to satisfy its obligation to withhold any federal, state or other withholding taxes arising on the Tax Date. Unless as otherwise determined by the Company, the Company shall withhold a portion of the Shares on the Tax Date that has an aggregate Fair Market Value equal to Participant's minimum withholding tax obligations (rounded up to the nearest whole Share). Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company, in its sole discretion, may require or otherwise allow Participant to pay such withholding taxes by (i) cash from Participant's account at the broker designated by the Company for such purpose or (ii) the selling of sufficient Shares on the Tax Date.
Withholding of Taxes
Tax Date
10. . Neither Participant nor any person claiming under or through Participant shall have any of the rights or privileges of a stockholder of the Company in respect of any Shares deliverable hereunder unless and until certificates representing such Shares (which may be in book entry form) shall have been issued, recorded on the records of the Company or its transfer agents or registrars, and delivered to Participant (including through electronic delivery to a brokerage account). After such issuance, recordation and delivery, Participant shall have all the rights of a stockholder of the Company with respect to voting such Shares and receipt of dividends and distributions on such Shares.
Rights as Stockholder
11. . PARTICIPANT ACKNOWLEDGES AND AGREES THAT THE VESTING OF THE RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS PURSUANT TO THE VESTING SCHEDULE HEREOF IS EARNED ONLY BY CONTINUING AS AN EMPLOYEE AT THE WILL OF THE COMPANY (OR THE PARENT OR SUBSIDIARY EMPLOYING PARTICIPANT) AND NOT THROUGH THE ACT OF BEING HIRED, BEING GRANTED THIS AWARD OF RESTRICTED
No Guarantee of Continued Employment
 
CONSTITUTE AN EXPRESS OR IMPLIED PROMISE OF CONTINUED ENGAGEMENT AS AN EMPLOYEE FOR THE VESTING PERIOD, FOR ANY PERIOD, OR AT ALL, AND SHALL NOT INTERFERE IN ANY WAY WITH PARTICIPANT'S RIGHT OR THE RIGHT OF THE COMPANY (OR THE PARENT OR SUBSIDIARY EMPLOYING PARTICIPANT) TO TERMINATE PARTICIPANT'S RELATIONSHIP AS AN EMPLOYEE AT ANY TIME, WITH OR WITHOUT CAUSE.
12. . Any notice to be given to the Company under the terms of this Agreement will be addressed to the Company at Autodesk, Inc., , or at such other address as the Company may hereafter designate in writing.
Address for Notices
111 McInnis Parkway, San Rafael, CA 94903
13. . Except to the limited extent provided in paragraph 7, this grant and the rights and privileges conferred hereby shall not be transferred, assigned, pledged or hypothecated in any way (whether by operation of law or otherwise) and shall not be subject to sale under execution, attachment or similar process. Upon any attempt to transfer, assign, pledge, hypothecate or otherwise dispose of this grant, or any right or privilege conferred hereby, or upon any attempted sale under any execution, attachment or similar process, this grant and the rights and privileges conferred hereby immediately shall become null and void.
Grant is Not Transferable
14. . The Shares issued as payment for vested Restricted Stock Units under this Agreement will be registered under U.S. federal securities laws and will be freely tradable upon receipt. However, Participant's subsequent sale of the Shares may be subject to any market blackout-period that may be imposed by the Company and must comply with the Company's insider trading policies, and any other applicable securities laws.
Restrictions on Sale of Securities
15. . Subject to the limitation on the transferability of this grant contained herein, this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the heirs, legatees, legal representatives, successors and assigns of the parties hereto.
Binding Agreement
16. . The Company shall not be required to issue any certificate or certificates for Shares hereunder prior to fulfillment of all the following conditions: (a) the admission of such Shares to listing on all stock exchanges on which such class of stock is then listed; (b) the completion of any registration or other qualification of such Shares under any U.S. state or federal law or under the rulings or regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission or any other governmental regulatory body, which the Administrator shall, in its absolute discretion, deem necessary or advisable; (c) the obtaining of any approval or other clearance from any U.S. state or federal governmental agency, which the Administrator shall, in its absolute discretion, determine to be necessary or advisable; and (d) the lapse of such reasonable period of time following the date of vesting of the Restricted Stock Units as the Administrator may establish from time to time for reasons of administrative convenience.
Additional Conditions to Issuance of Stock
17. . This Agreement is subject to all terms and provisions of the Plan. In the event of a conflict between one or more provisions of this Agreement and one or more provisions of the Plan, the provisions of the Plan shall govern.
Plan Governs
18. . The Administrator shall have the power to interpret the Plan and this Agreement and to adopt such rules for the administration, interpretation and application of the Plan as are consistent therewith and to interpret or revoke any such rules (including, but not limited to, the determination of whether or not any Restricted Stock Units have vested). All actions taken and all interpretations and determinations made by the Administrator in good faith shall be final and binding upon Participant, the Company and all other interested persons. No member of the Administrator shall be personally liable for any action, determination or interpretation made in good faith with respect to the Plan or this Agreement. The Administrator shall, in its absolute discretion, determine when such conditions have been fulfilled.
Administrator Authority
 
19. . The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to Restricted Stock Units awarded under the Plan or future Restricted Stock Units that may be awarded under the Plan by electronic means or request Participant's consent to participate in the Plan by electronic means. Participant hereby consents to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agrees to participate in the Plan through any on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or another third party designated by the Company.
Electronic Delivery
20. . Captions provided herein are for convenience only and are not to serve as a basis for interpretation or construction of this Agreement.
Captions
21. . In the event that any provision in this Agreement shall be held invalid or unenforceable, such provision shall be severable from, and such invalidity or unenforceability shall not be construed to have any effect on, the remaining provisions of this Agreement.
Agreement Severable
22. . This Agreement constitutes the entire understanding of the parties on the subjects covered. Participant expressly warrants that he or she is not accepting this Agreement in reliance on any promises, representations, or inducements other than those contained herein. Modifications to this Agreement or the Plan can be made only in an express written contract executed by a duly authorized officer of the Company. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Plan or this Agreement, the Company reserves the right to revise this Agreement as it deems necessary or advisable, in its sole discretion and without the consent of Participant, to comply with Section 409A or to otherwise avoid imposition of any additional tax or income recognition under Section 409A prior to the actual payment of Shares pursuant to this award of Restricted Stock Units.
Modifications to the Agreement
23. . By accepting this award, Participant expressly warrants that he or she has received an award of Restricted Stock Units under the Plan, and has received, read and understood a description of the Plan. Participant understands that the Plan is discretionary in nature and may be amended, suspended or terminated by the Company at any time.
Amendment, Suspension or Termination of the Plan
24. . This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California, without giving effect to the conflict of law principles thereof. For purposes of litigating any dispute that arises under this award of Restricted Stock Units or this Agreement, the parties hereby submit to and consent to the jurisdiction of the State of California, and agree that such litigation shall be conducted in the courts of , or the federal courts for the United States for the Northern District of California, and no other courts, where this award of Restricted Stock Units is made and/or to be performed.
Governing Law
Marin County, California
25. . By accepting this Restricted Stock Unit award, Participant acknowledges that: (a) the grant of this Restricted Stock Unit award is a one-time benefit which does not create any contractual or other right to receive future grants of Restricted Stock Units, or benefits in lieu of Restricted Stock Units; (b) all determinations with respect to any future grants, including, but not limited to, the times when the Restricted Stock Units shall be granted, the number of Shares subject to each Restricted Stock Unit award, the purchase price per Share, and the time or times when Restricted Stock Units shall vest, will be at the sole discretion of the Company; (c) Participant's participation in the Plan is voluntary; (d) the value of this Restricted Stock Unit award is an extraordinary item of compensation which is outside the scope of Participant's employment contract, if any; (e) this Restricted Stock Unit award is not part of Participant's normal or expected compensation for purposes of calculating any severance, resignation, redundancy, end of service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits or similar payments; (f) the vesting of this Restricted Stock Unit award ceases upon termination of employment for any reason except as may otherwise be explicitly provided in the Plan or this Agreement; (g) the future value of the underlying Shares is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty; (h) this Restricted Stock Unit award has been granted to Participant in Participant's status as an employee of the Company or its Subsidiaries; (i) any claims resulting from this Restricted Stock Unit award shall be enforceable, if at all, against the Company; and (j) there shall be no additional obligations for any Subsidiary employing Participant as a result of this Restricted Stock Unit award.
Labor Law
 
26. . By accepting this Restricted Stock Unit award, Participant consents to the collection, use and transfer of personal data as described in this paragraph. Participant understands that the Company and its Subsidiaries hold certain personal information about him or her, including his or her name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social security or identity number, salary, nationality, job title, any shares of stock or directorships held in the Company, details of all awards of Restricted Stock Units or any other entitlement to shares of stock awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in his or her favor, for the purpose of managing and administering the Plan ("Data"). Participant further understands that the Company and/or its Subsidiaries will transfer Data among themselves as necessary for the purpose of implementation, administration and management of his or her participation in the Plan, and that the Company and/or any of its Subsidiaries may each further transfer Data to any third parties assisting the Company in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan. Participant understands that these recipients may be located in the European Economic Area, or elsewhere, such as in the U.S. or Asia. Participant authorizes the Company to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing his or her participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer to a broker or other third party with whom he or she may elect to deposit any Shares of stock acquired from this award of Restricted Stock Units of such Data as may be required for the administration of the Plan and/or the subsequent holding of Shares of stock on his or her behalf. Participant understands that he or she may, at any time, view the Data, require any necessary amendments to the Data or withdraw the consent herein in writing by contacting the Human Resources Department for his or her employer.
Disclosure of Participant Information
 
 
 
You have been granted an award of restricted stock units, subject to the terms and conditions in the 2008 Employee Stock Plan (the "Plan") and the Terms and Conditions of Restricted Stock Units, attached hereto as (together with this Notice of Grant of Restricted Stock Units, the "Agreement"), as follows:
Exhibit A
 
Vesting Schedule:
The Restricted Stock Units will fully vest on [].
            
Capitalized terms that are not defined in this Notice of Grant have the same meaning as in the Plan or the Agreement.
You and the Company agree that the restricted stock units granted by this Notice of Grant are governed by the terms and conditions of the Plan and the Terms and Conditions of Restricted Stock Units, all of which are made a part of this document and may be accessed by you in your E*Trade account. You acknowledge receipt of a copy of the Agreement and a copy of the Plan. You represent that you have carefully read and understand this Notice of Grant, the Plan, the Terms and Conditions of Restricted Stock Units and the prospectus describing the Plan and have had an opportunity to obtain the advice of counsel prior to accepting the Restricted Stock Units. You accept the Restricted Stock Units subject to all of the terms and provisions contained in each document. By accepting below, you agree to accept as binding, conclusive and final all decisions or interpretations of the Board upon any questions arising under the Plan.
In addition, by accepting this award, you agree to the following: "This electronic contract contains my electronic signature, which I have executed with the intent to sign this Agreement." Please be sure to retain a copy of your electronically signed Agreement; you may obtain a paper copy at any time and at the Company's expense by requesting one from the Company's Stock Administration Department, at Autodesk, Inc., 111 McInnis Parkway, San Rafael, CA 94903, or at such other address as the Company may hereafter designate in writing. If you prefer not to electronically sign this Agreement, you may accept this Agreement by signing a paper copy of the Agreement and delivering it to the Company's Stock Administration Department.
 
Premium and Non-Bonus Deferred RSU Agreement
1. . The Company hereby grants to the participant (the "Participant") named in the Notice of Grant of Restricted Stock Units (the "Notice of Grant") under the Plan the number of Restricted Stock Units indicated on the Notice of Grant, subject to all of the terms and conditions in this Agreement and the Plan, which is incorporated herein by reference. When shares of the Company's Common Stock ("Shares") are paid to Participant in payment for the Restricted Stock Units, par value shall be deemed paid by Participant for each Restricted Stock Unit by past services rendered by Participant, and shall be subject to the appropriate tax withholdings. Unless otherwise defined herein, capitalized terms used herein shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Plan.
Grant
2. . Unless and until the Restricted Stock Units shall have vested in the manner set forth in paragraphs 3 or 4 of this Agreement or Section 13 of the Plan, Participant shall have no right to payment of any such Restricted Stock Units. Prior to actual payment of any vested Restricted Stock Units, such Restricted Stock Units shall represent an unsecured obligation of the Company, payable (if at all) only from the general assets of the Company. Payment of any vested Restricted Stock Units will be made in whole Shares only. In the Administrator's sole discretion, the Restricted Stock Units may be settled, in part or solely, in cash in lieu of Shares, equal to (i) the Fair Market Value of a Share on the Distribution Date, multiplied by (ii) the number of Restricted Stock Units to be distributed, subject to any applicable tax withholding.
Company's Obligation to Pay
3. . Except as provided in paragraph 4 of this Agreement and Section 13 of the Plan, and subject to paragraph 5 of this Agreement, the Restricted Stock Units awarded by this Agreement shall vest in accordance with the vesting provisions set forth in the Notice of Grant. Restricted Stock Units scheduled to vest on a certain date or upon the occurrence of a certain condition shall vest in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement only if Participant is continuously employed by the Company from the Date of Grant until the date such vesting occurs.
Vesting Schedule
4. . The Administrator, in its discretion, may accelerate the vesting of the balance, or some lesser portion of the balance, of the unvested Restricted Stock Units at any time, subject to the terms of the Plan. If so accelerated, such Restricted Stock Units shall be considered as having vested as of the date specified by the Administrator. Notwithstanding anything in the Plan or this Agreement to the contrary, if the vesting of any portion of the balance of the Restricted Stock Units is accelerated in connection with Participant's "separation from service" within the meaning of Section 409A (as determined by the Company), other than due to death, and if (x) Participant is a "specified employee" within the meaning of Section 409A at the time of such termination and (y) the payment of such accelerated Restricted Stock Units shall result in the imposition of additional tax under Section 409A if paid to Participant on or within the six (6) month period following Participant's termination as an Employee, then the payment of such accelerated Restricted Stock Units shall not be made until the earlier of (A) six (6) months and one (1) day following the date of Participant's termination as an Employee or (B) Participant's death. It is the intent of this Agreement to comply with the requirements of Section 409A so that none of the Restricted Stock Units provided under this Agreement or Shares issuable thereunder shall be subject to the additional tax imposed under Section 409A, and any ambiguities herein shall be interpreted to so comply. For purposes of this Agreement, "Section 409A" means Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and any proposed, temporary or final Treasury Regulations and Internal Revenue Service guidance thereunder, as each may be amended from time to time.
Administrator Discretion
 
5. . Notwithstanding any contrary provision of this Agreement, the balance of the Restricted Stock Units that have not vested as of the time of Participant's termination as an Employee for any or no reason shall be forfeited and automatically transferred to and reacquired by the Company at no cost to the Company and Participant's right to acquire any Shares hereunder shall immediately terminate.
Forfeiture upon Termination of Status as an Employee
6. . Any Restricted Stock Units that vest in accordance with paragraph 3 will be distributed to Participant (or in the event of Participant's death, to his or her estate) in whole Shares (or, in the Administrator's sole discretion, in cash) as soon as administratively practicable after vesting, subject to paragraph 8 and the other provisions of this Agreement, but in no event later than the 15
Distribution after Vesting
th
day of the third month following the end of (i) the Company's fiscal year in which the Restricted Stock Units vest or (ii) the calendar year in which the Restricted Stock Units vest, whichever is later. Any Restricted Stock Units that vest in accordance with paragraph 4 will be paid to Participant at the time(s) provided in paragraph 4, subject to paragraph 8 and the other provisions of this Agreement.
7. . Any distribution or delivery to be made to Participant under this Agreement shall, if Participant is then deceased, be made to Participant's designated beneficiary, provided such beneficiary has been designated prior to Participant's death in a form acceptable to the Administrator or, if no such beneficiary has been designated or survives Participant, the administrator or executor of Participant's estate. Any such transferee must furnish the Company with (a) written notice of his or her status as transferee, and (b) evidence satisfactory to the Company to establish the validity of the transfer and compliance with any laws or regulations pertaining to said transfer.
Death of Participant
8. . Participant will recognize taxable income on the Restricted Stock Unit distribution (or settlement) date (the ""). On the Tax Date, Participant will be required to pay an amount to the Company to enable the Company to satisfy its obligation to withhold any federal, state or other withholding taxes arising on the Tax Date. Unless as otherwise determined by the Company, the Company shall withhold a portion of the Shares on the Tax Date that has an aggregate Fair Market Value equal to Participant's minimum withholding tax obligations (rounded up to the nearest whole Share). Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company, in its sole discretion, may require or otherwise allow Participant to pay such withholding taxes by (i) cash from Participant's account at the broker designated by the Company for such purpose or (ii) the selling of sufficient Shares on the Tax Date.
Withholding of Taxes
Tax Date
9. . Neither Participant nor any person claiming under or through Participant shall have any of the rights or privileges of a stockholder of the Company in respect of any Shares deliverable hereunder unless and until certificates representing such Shares (which may be in book entry form) shall have been issued, recorded on the records of the Company or its transfer agents or registrars, and delivered to Participant (including through electronic delivery to a brokerage account). After such issuance, recordation and delivery, Participant shall have all the rights of a stockholder of the Company with respect to voting such Shares and receipt of dividends and distributions on such Shares.
Rights as Stockholder
10. . PARTICIPANT ACKNOWLEDGES AND AGREES THAT THE VESTING OF THE RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS PURSUANT TO THE VESTING SCHEDULE HEREOF IS EARNED ONLY BY CONTINUING AS AN EMPLOYEE AT THE WILL OF THE COMPANY (OR THE PARENT OR SUBSIDIARY EMPLOYING PARTICIPANT) AND NOT THROUGH THE ACT OF BEING HIRED, BEING GRANTED THIS AWARD OF RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS OR ACQUIRING SHARES HEREUNDER. PARTICIPANT FURTHER
No Guarantee of Continued Employment
 
ACKNOWLEDGES AND AGREES THAT THIS AGREEMENT, THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREUNDER AND THE VESTING SCHEDULE SET FORTH HEREIN DO NOT CONSTITUTE AN EXPRESS OR IMPLIED PROMISE OF CONTINUED ENGAGEMENT AS AN EMPLOYEE FOR THE VESTING PERIOD, FOR ANY PERIOD, OR AT ALL, AND SHALL NOT INTERFERE IN ANY WAY WITH PARTICIPANT'S RIGHT OR THE RIGHT OF THE COMPANY (OR THE PARENT OR SUBSIDIARY EMPLOYING PARTICIPANT) TO TERMINATE PARTICIPANT'S RELATIONSHIP AS AN EMPLOYEE AT ANY TIME, WITH OR WITHOUT CAUSE.
11. . Any notice to be given to the Company under the terms of this Agreement will be addressed to the Company at Autodesk, Inc., , or at such other address as the Company may hereafter designate in writing.
Address for Notices
111 McInnis Parkway, San Rafael, CA 94903
12. . Except to the limited extent provided in paragraph 7, this grant and the rights and privileges conferred hereby shall not be transferred, assigned, pledged or hypothecated in any way (whether by operation of law or otherwise) and shall not be subject to sale under execution, attachment or similar process. Upon any attempt to transfer, assign, pledge, hypothecate or otherwise dispose of this grant, or any right or privilege conferred hereby, or upon any attempted sale under any execution, attachment or similar process, this grant and the rights and privileges conferred hereby immediately shall become null and void.
Grant is Not Transferable
13. . The Shares issued as payment for vested Restricted Stock Units under this Agreement will be registered under U.S. federal securities laws and will be freely tradable upon receipt. However, Participant's subsequent sale of the Shares may be subject to any market blackout-period that may be imposed by the Company and must comply with the Company's insider trading policies, and any other applicable securities laws.
Restrictions on Sale of Securities
14. . Subject to the limitation on the transferability of this grant contained herein, this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the heirs, legatees, legal representatives, successors and assigns of the parties hereto.
Binding Agreement
15. . The Company shall not be required to issue any certificate or certificates for Shares hereunder prior to fulfillment of all the following conditions: (a) the admission of such Shares to listing on all stock exchanges on which such class of stock is then listed; (b) the completion of any registration or other qualification of such Shares under any U.S. state or federal law or under the rulings or regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission or any other governmental regulatory body, which the Administrator shall, in its absolute discretion, deem necessary or advisable; (c) the obtaining of any approval or other clearance from any U.S. state or federal governmental agency, which the Administrator shall, in its absolute discretion, determine to be necessary or advisable; and (d) the lapse of such reasonable period of time following the date of vesting of the Restricted Stock Units as the Administrator may establish from time to time for reasons of administrative convenience.
Additional Conditions to Issuance of Stock
16. . This Agreement is subject to all terms and provisions of the Plan. In the event of a conflict between one or more provisions of this Agreement and one or more provisions of the Plan, the provisions of the Plan shall govern.
Plan Governs
17. . The Administrator shall have the power to interpret the Plan and this Agreement and to adopt such rules for the administration, interpretation and application of the Plan as are consistent therewith and to interpret or revoke any such rules (including, but not limited to, the determination of whether or not any Restricted Stock Units have vested). All actions taken and all interpretations and determinations made by the Administrator in good faith shall be final and binding upon Participant, the Company and all other interested persons. No member of the Administrator shall be personally liable for any action, determination or interpretation made in good faith with respect to the Plan or this Agreement. The Administrator shall, in its absolute discretion, determine when such conditions have been fulfilled.
Administrator Authority
 
18. . The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to Restricted Stock Units awarded under the Plan or future Restricted Stock Units that may be awarded under the Plan by electronic means or request Participant's consent to participate in the Plan by electronic means. Participant hereby consents to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agrees to participate in the Plan through any on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or another third party designated by the Company.
Electronic Delivery
19. . Captions provided herein are for convenience only and are not to serve as a basis for interpretation or construction of this Agreement.
Captions
20. . In the event that any provision in this Agreement shall be held invalid or unenforceable, such provision shall be severable from, and such invalidity or unenforceability shall not be construed to have any effect on, the remaining provisions of this Agreement.
Agreement Severable
21. . This Agreement constitutes the entire understanding of the parties on the subjects covered. Participant expressly warrants that he or she is not accepting this Agreement in reliance on any promises, representations, or inducements other than those contained herein. Modifications to this Agreement or the Plan can be made only in an express written contract executed by a duly authorized officer of the Company. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Plan or this Agreement, the Company reserves the right to revise this Agreement as it deems necessary or advisable, in its sole discretion and without the consent of Participant, to comply with Section 409A or to otherwise avoid imposition of any additional tax or income recognition under Section 409A prior to the actual payment of Shares pursuant to this award of Restricted Stock Units.
Modifications to the Agreement
22. . By accepting this award, Participant expressly warrants that he or she has received an award of Restricted Stock Units under the Plan, and has received, read and understood a description of the Plan. Participant understands that the Plan is discretionary in nature and may be amended, suspended or terminated by the Company at any time.
Amendment, Suspension or Termination of the Plan
23. . This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California, without giving effect to the conflict of law principles thereof. For purposes of litigating any dispute that arises under this award of Restricted Stock Units or this Agreement, the parties hereby submit to and consent to the jurisdiction of the State of California, and agree that such litigation shall be conducted in the courts of , or the federal courts for the United States for the Northern District of California, and no other courts, where this award of Restricted Stock Units is made and/or to be performed.
Governing Law
Marin County, California
24. . By accepting this Restricted Stock Unit award, Participant acknowledges that: (a) the grant of this Restricted Stock Unit award is a one-time benefit which does not create any contractual or other right to receive future grants of Restricted Stock Units, or benefits in lieu of Restricted Stock Units; (b) all determinations with respect to any future grants, including, but not limited to, the times when the Restricted Stock Units shall be granted, the number of Shares subject to each Restricted Stock Unit award, the purchase price per Share, and the time or times when Restricted Stock Units shall vest, will be at the sole discretion of the Company; (c) Participant's participation in the Plan is voluntary; (d) the value of this Restricted Stock Unit award is an extraordinary item of compensation which is outside the scope of Participant's employment contract, if any; (e) this Restricted Stock Unit award is not part of Participant's normal or expected compensation for purposes of calculating any severance, resignation, redundancy, end of service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits or similar payments; (f) the
Labor Law
 
vesting of this Restricted Stock Unit award ceases upon termination of employment for any reason except as may otherwise be explicitly provided in the Plan or this Agreement; (g) the future value of the underlying Shares is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty; (h) this Restricted Stock Unit award has been granted to Participant in Participant's status as an employee of the Company or its Subsidiaries; (i) any claims resulting from this Restricted Stock Unit award shall be enforceable, if at all, against the Company; and (j) there shall be no additional obligations for any Subsidiary employing Participant as a result of this Restricted Stock Unit award.
25. . By accepting this Restricted Stock Unit award, Participant consents to the collection, use and transfer of personal data as described in this paragraph. Participant understands that the Company and its Subsidiaries hold certain personal information about him or her, including his or her name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social security or identity number, salary, nationality, job title, any shares of stock or directorships held in the Company, details of all awards of Restricted Stock Units or any other entitlement to shares of stock awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in his or her favor, for the purpose of managing and administering the Plan ("Data"). Participant further understands that the Company and/or its Subsidiaries will transfer Data among themselves as necessary for the purpose of implementation, administration and management of his or her participation in the Plan, and that the Company and/or any of its Subsidiaries may each further transfer Data to any third parties assisting the Company in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan. Participant understands that these recipients may be located in the European Economic Area, or elsewhere, such as in the U.S. or Asia. Participant authorizes the Company to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing his or her participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer to a broker or other third party with whom he or she may elect to deposit any Shares of stock acquired from this award of Restricted Stock Units of such Data as may be required for the administration of the Plan and/or the subsequent holding of Shares of stock on his or her behalf. Participant understands that he or she may, at any time, view the Data, require any necessary amendments to the Data or withdraw the consent herein in writing by contacting the Human Resources Department for his or her employer.
Disclosure of Participant Information
 

Exhibit 10.3
1. . The purposes of this Directors' Option Plan are to attract and retain highly skilled individuals as Directors of the Company, to provide additional incentive to the Outside Directors of the Company to serve as Directors, and to encourage their continued service on the Board.
Purposes of the Plan
All options granted hereunder shall be "non-statutory stock options."
2. . As used herein, the following definitions shall apply:
Definitions
(a) "" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
Board
(b) "" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Reference to a specific section of the Code or regulation thereunder shall include such section or regulation, any valid regulation promulgated under such section, and any comparable provision of any future legislation or regulation amending, supplementing or superseding such section or regulation.
Code
(c) "" means the Common Stock of the Company, par value $0.01 per share.
Common Stock
(d) "" means Autodesk, Inc., a Delaware corporation, or any successor thereto.
Company
(e) "" means a member of the Board.
Director
(f) "" means any person, including officers and Directors, employed by the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary of the Company. The payment of a Director's fee or consulting fee by the Company shall not be sufficient in and of itself to constitute "employment" by the Company unless the Director and the Company agree that, as a result of payment of such fees in connection with services rendered, such Director should not be considered an Outside Director.
Employee
(g) "" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Reference to a specific section of the Exchange Act or regulation thereunder shall include such section or regulation, any valid regulation promulgated under such section, and any comparable provision of any future legislation or regulation amending, supplementing or superseding such section or regulation.
Exchange Act
 
(h) "" means, as of any date, the value of Common Stock determined as follows:
Fair Market Value
(i) If the Common Stock is listed on any established stock exchange or national market system, including without limitation the Nasdaq National Market, the Fair Market Value of a Share of Common Stock shall be the closing sale price for such stock (or the closing bid, if no sales were reported), as quoted on such system or exchange (or, if more than one, on the exchange with the greatest volume of trading in the Company's Common Stock) on the day of determination, as reported in or such other source as the Board deems reliable;
The Wall Street Journal
(ii) If the Common Stock is quoted on Nasdaq (but not on the National Market) or regularly quoted by a recognized securities dealer, but selling prices are not reported, the Fair Market Value of a Share of Common Stock shall be the mean between the high and low asked prices for the Common Stock on the date of determination, as reported in or such other source as the Board deems reliable, or;
The Wall Street Journal
(iii) In the absence of an established market for the Common Stock, the Fair Market Value thereof shall be determined in good faith by the Board.
(i) "" means an option to purchase Common Stock granted pursuant to the Plan.
Option
(j) "" means the Common Stock subject to an Option.
Optioned Stock
(k) "" means a Director who is not an Employee.
Outside Director
(l) "" means a "parent corporation", whether now or hereafter existing, as defined in Section 424(e) of the Code.
Parent
(m) "" means the holder of an outstanding Option or Restricted Stock Award granted under the Plan.
Participant
(n) "" means the period during which the transfer of Shares of Restricted Stock are subject to restrictions and therefore, the Shares are subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture.
Period of Restriction
(o) "" means this 2000 Directors' Option Plan, as set forth in this instrument and as hereafter amended from time to time.
Plan
(p) "" means a retirement from the Board after the retiring Director either (i) has attained 62 years of age and has served on the Board for at least five (5) years, or (ii) has served on the Board for at least ten (10) years.
Qualified Retirement
(q) "" means an award granted to an Outside Director in accordance with Section 4(c) of this Plan.
Restricted Stock
(r) "" means the Company's grant of Restricted Stock pursuant to Section 4(c) of the Plan.
Restricted Stock Award
 
(s) "" means a share of the Common Stock, as adjusted in accordance with Section 11 of the Plan.
Share
(t) "" means a "subsidiary corporation", whether now or hereafter existing, as defined in Section 424(f) of the Code.
Subsidiary
3. . Subject to the provisions of Section 11 of the Plan, the maximum aggregate number of Shares which may be issued under the Plan is 3,300,284 Shares (the "Pool") of Common Stock. The Shares may be authorized, but unissued, or reacquired Common Stock. Effective as of September 2, 2005, the number of Shares that may be issued hereunder after such date as Restricted Stock shall not exceed 124,300 Shares.
Stock Subject to the Plan
If an Option expires or becomes unexercisable without having been exercised in full, the unpurchased Shares which were subject thereto shall become available for future grant or sale under the Plan (unless the Plan has terminated). If Shares are forfeited to the Company pursuant to a Restricted Stock agreement, such Shares shall be returned to the Plan and shall become available for reissuance under the Plan, unless the Plan shall have been terminated. However, such Shares shall not return to the Plan if the persons to whom they were originally issued receive the benefits of ownership of such Shares (other than voting), as such concept is interpreted from time to time by the Securities and Exchange Commission in the context of Rule 16b-3. Shares used to pay the exercise price of an Option or to satisfy tax withholding obligations shall not become available for future grant or sale under the Plan.
4. .
Administration of and Grants under the Plan
(a) . Except as otherwise required herein, the Plan shall be administered by the Board. All grants of Options and Restricted Stock to Outside Directors under this Plan shall be automatic and nondiscretionary and shall be made strictly in accordance with the following provisions:
Administration
(b) .
Option Grants
(i) No person shall have any discretion to select which Outside Directors shall be granted Options or to determine the number of Shares to be covered by Options granted to Outside Directors.
(ii) Each Outside Director who joins the Board on or after March 16, 2000 shall be automatically granted an Option to purchase 50,000 Shares (the "Initial Option") upon the date of the first meeting of the Board at which such person first serves as a Director (which shall be (i) in the case of a Director elected by the stockholders of the Company, the first meeting of the Board after the meeting of stockholders at which such Director was elected or (ii) in the case of a Director appointed by the Board to fill a vacancy, the meeting of the Board at which such Director is appointed); provided, however, that no Option shall become exercisable under the Plan until stockholder approval of the Plan has been obtained in accordance with Section 17 hereof.
 
(iii) On the date of each annual stockholder meeting (an "Annual Meeting") during the term of this Plan, each Outside Director shall automatically receive an additional Option to purchase 20,000 Shares (the "Annual Option"), provided that (1) the Annual Option shall be granted only to an Outside Director who has served on the Board for at least six full months prior to the date of grant and (2) the grant of an Annual Option shall be subject to the person's continued service as an Outside Director.
(iv) The terms of each Option granted hereunder shall be as follows:
(1) Each Option shall terminate, if not previously exercised or otherwise terminated, on a date six (6) years after the date of grant.
(2) Each Option shall be exercisable only while the Outside Director remains a Director of the Company, except as set forth in Section 8 hereof.
(3) The exercise price per Share of each Option shall be 100% of the Fair Market Value per Share on the date of grant of the Option.
(4) Each Initial Option shall become exercisable in installments cumulatively as 34%, 33% and 33%, respectively, of the Optioned Stock, on each of the three (3) succeeding years on the anniversary of such Option's date of grant, for a total vesting period of approximately three (3) years, provided that the Director continues to serve on the Board on such dates.
(5) Each Annual Option shall become fully exercisable on the date of the Company's next Annual Meeting for a total vesting period of approximately one (1) year, provided that the Director continues to serve on the Board on such date.
(v) In the event that any Option granted under the Plan would cause the number of Shares subject to outstanding Options plus the number of Shares previously purchased upon exercise of Options and the number of Shares issued pursuant to Restricted Stock Awards to exceed the Pool, then each such automatic grant shall be for that number of Shares determined by dividing the total number of Shares remaining available for grant by the number of Outside Directors on the automatic grant date. No further grants shall be made until such time, if any, as additional Shares become available for grant under the Plan through action of the stockholders to increase the number of Shares which may be issued under the Plan or through cancellation or expiration of Options previously granted hereunder.
(c) .
Restricted Stock Awards
(i) No person shall have any discretion to select which Outside Directors shall receive Restricted Stock Awards or to determine the number of Shares to be covered by Restricted Stock awarded to Outside Directors; provided, however, that nothing in this Plan shall be construed to prevent an Outside Director from irrevocably declining to receive a Restricted Stock Award under this Plan.
(ii) On the date of each Annual Meeting during the term of this Plan, each Outside Director shall automatically receive a Restricted Stock Award for that number of Shares determined by dividing (1) the product of (a) fifty percent (50%) of the cash value of his or her annual retainer as a Director multiplied by (b) 1.2, by (2) the Fair Market Value of a Share on that
 
date, rounded to the nearest whole Share, provided that on the date of grant of any such Restricted Stock Award such person is an Outside Director; and provided further that sufficient Shares are available under the Plan for the grant of such Restricted Stock Award.
(iii) On or before December 31 of the calendar year prior to each Annual Meeting during the term of this Plan, each Outside Director may make an election (the "Election") to receive any or all of the remaining cash balance of his or her annual retainer that will be earned for services performed as a Director in calendar years after the calendar year in which the election is made in the form of a Restricted Stock Award. The Election must be in writing and delivered to the Secretary of the Company on or prior to December 31 of the calendar year prior to such Annual Meeting. Any Election made by an Outside Director pursuant to this subsection 4(c)(iii) shall be irrevocable and shall comply with Section 409A of the Code to the extent applicable unless otherwise determined by the Board. Effective as of the Annual Meeting, the Outside Director shall receive a Restricted Stock Award for that number of Shares determined by dividing (1) the product of (a) the amount of his or her annual retainer as a Director covered by the Election, multiplied by (b) 1.2, by (2) the Fair Market Value of a Share on that date, rounded to the nearest whole Share, provided that on the date of grant of any such Restricted Stock Award such person is an Outside Director; and provided further that sufficient Shares are available under the Plan for the grant of such Restricted Stock Award.
(iv) The terms of a Restricted Stock Award granted hereunder shall be as follows:
(1) the purchase price shall be $.01 per Share (the par value of the Company's Common Stock) and shall be deemed paid by services rendered by the Director (except as otherwise determined by the Board and set forth in the applicable Restricted Stock agreement); and
(2) Subject to Sections 9(d) and 11(c), Restricted Stock shall vest on the date of the following year's Annual Meeting of Stockholders of the Company, provided that the Participant is an Outside Director on such date.
(d) . Subject to the provisions and restrictions of the Plan, the Board shall have the authority, in its discretion: (i) to determine, upon review of relevant information and in accordance with Section 2(h) of the Plan, the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock; (ii) to construe and interpret the terms of the Plan and Options and Restricted Stock Awards granted hereunder; (iii) to prescribe, amend and rescind rules and regulations relating to the Plan; (iv) to approve forms of agreement for use under the Plan; (v) to authorize any person to execute on behalf of the Company any instrument required to effectuate the grant of an Option or Restricted Stock Award previously granted hereunder; (vi) to modify or amend each Option or Restricted Stock Award (not inconsistent with the terms of the Plan), including the discretionary authority to extend the post-termination exercisability period of Options; and (vii) to make all other determinations deemed necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan.
Powers of the Board
(e) . All decisions, determinations and interpretations of the Board shall be final and binding on all Participants and any other holders of Options or Restricted Stock Awards and shall be given the maximum deference permitted by law.
Effect of Board's Decision
 
5. . Options and Restricted Stock Awards may be granted only to Outside Directors. All Options shall be automatically granted in accordance with the terms set forth in Section 4(b) and all Restricted Stock Awards shall be automatically granted in accordance with the terms set forth in Section 4(c)
Eligibility
The Plan shall not confer upon any Participant any right with respect to continuation of service as a Director or nomination to serve as a Director, nor shall it interfere in any way with any rights which the Director or the Company may have to terminate his or her directorship at any time.
6. . The Plan shall become effective upon the earlier to occur of its adoption by the Board or its approval by the stockholders of the Company as described in Section 17 of the Plan. It shall continue in effect for a term of ten (10) years unless sooner terminated under Section 12 of the Plan.
Term of Plan
7. .
Option Exercise Price and Consideration
(a) . The per Share exercise price for Optioned Stock shall be 100% of the Fair Market Value per Share on the date of grant of the Option.
Exercise Price
(b) . The consideration to be paid for the Shares to be issued upon exercise of an Option may consist of (i) cash, (ii) check, (iii) other Shares which, in the case of Shares acquired upon exercise of an Option, either have been owned by the Participant for more than six (6) months on the date of surrender or were not acquired, directly or indirectly, from the Company, and have a Fair Market Value on the date of surrender equal to the aggregate exercise price of the Shares as to which said Option shall be exercised, (iv) any combination of the foregoing methods; or (vi) such other consideration and method of payment for the issuance of Shares to the extent permitted by applicable law; provided however, that in no case will loans be permitted as consideration for exercising an Option hereunder.
Form of Consideration
(c) . The per Share exercise price for Optioned Stock may not be reduced without the consent of the Company's stockholders. This shall include, without limitation, a repricing of the Optioned Stock as well as an Option exchange program whereby the Participant agrees to cancel an existing Option in exchange for an Option, a Restricted Stock Award, cash, or a combination thereof.
No Repricing
8. .
Exercise of Option
(a) . Any Option granted hereunder shall be exercisable at such times as are set forth in Section 4(b) hereof.
Procedure for Exercise; Rights as a Stockholder
An Option may not be exercised for a fraction of a Share.
An Option shall be deemed to be exercised when the Company receives: (i) written or electronic notice of such exercise (in accordance with the Option agreement) from the person entitled to exercise the Option and (ii) full payment for the Shares with respect to which the Option is exercised. Full payment may consist of any consideration and method of payment
 
allowable under Section 7(b) of the Plan. Until the issuance (as evidenced by the appropriate entry on the books of the Company or of a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company) of the stock certificate evidencing such Shares, no right to vote or receive dividends or any other rights as a stockholder shall exist with respect to the Optioned Stock, notwithstanding the exercise of the Option. A share certificate for the number of Shares so acquired shall be issued to the Participant as soon as practicable after exercise of the Option. No adjustment will be made for a dividend or other right for which the record date is prior to the date the stock certificate is issued, except as provided in Section 11 of the Plan.
Except as otherwise provided in Section 3, exercise of an Option in any manner shall result in a decrease in the number of Shares which thereafter may be available, both for purposes of the Plan and for sale under the Option, by the number of Shares as to which the Option is exercised.
(b) . Options granted to Outside Directors must comply with the applicable provisions of Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act or any successor thereto and shall contain such additional conditions or restrictions as may be required thereunder to qualify for the maximum exemption from Section 16 of the Exchange Act with respect to Plan transactions.
Rule 16b-3
(c) . If an Outside Director ceases to serve as a Director, he may, but only within seven (7) months after the date he ceases to be a Director of the Company, exercise his Option to the extent that he was entitled to exercise it at the date of such termination; , , that if an Outside Director ceases to serve as a Director upon a Qualified Retirement, then he may, but only within three (3) years after the date he ceases to be a Director of the Company, exercise his Option to the extent he was entitled to exercise it at the date of such Qualified Retirement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event may the Option be exercised after its term has expired. To the extent that the Director was not entitled to exercise an Option at the date of such termination, or if he does not exercise such Option (which he was entitled to exercise) within the time specified herein, the Option shall terminate, and the Shares covered by such Option shall revert to the Plan.
Termination of Status as a Director
provided
however
(d) . Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 8(c) above, in the event a Participant is unable to continue his service as a Director as a result of his total and permanent disability (as defined in Section 22(e)(3) of the Code), he may, but only within twelve (12) months from the date of termination, exercise his Option to the extent he was entitled to exercise it at the date of such termination. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event may the Option be exercised after its term has expired. To the extent that he was not entitled to exercise the Option at the date of termination, or if he does not exercise such Option (which he was entitled to exercise) within the time specified herein, the Option shall terminate, and the Shares covered by such Option shall revert to the Plan.
Disability of Participant
(e) . In the event of the death of a Participant during the term of an Option, the Option shall become fully exercisable, including as to Shares for which it would not otherwise be exercisable and may be exercised, at any time within twelve (12) months following the date of death, by the Participant's estate or by a person who acquired the right to exercise the Option by bequest or inheritance. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event may the Option be exercised after its term has expired. To the extent the Option is not exercised within the time specified herein, the Option shall terminate, and the Shares covered by such Option shall revert to the Plan.
Death of Participant
 
9. .
Restricted Stock
(a) . Following the grant of a Restricted Stock Award in accordance with Section 4(c), the Board shall provide the Participant with a Restricted Stock agreement, in such form as the Board shall approve, specifying the number of Shares granted, the Period of Restriction, and such other terms, conditions and restrictions relating to the Restricted Stock Award. Unless the Board determines otherwise, Shares of Restricted Stock shall be held by the Company as escrow agent until the restrictions on such Shares have lapsed.
Restricted Stock Agreement
(b) . Until the issuance (as evidenced by the appropriate entry on the books of the Company or of a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company) of the stock certificate evidencing Restricted Stock, no right to vote or to receive dividends or any other rights as a stockholder shall exist with respect to Shares of Restricted Stock. A share certificate for the number of Shares of Restricted Stock granted shall be issued to the Participant as soon as practicable after the date of grant of the Restricted Stock Award. No adjustment will be made for a dividend or other right for which the record date is prior to the date the stock certificate is issued, except as provided in Section 11 of the Plan.
Rights as a Stockholder
(c) . Shares of Restricted Stock covered by each Restricted Stock Award made under the Plan shall be released from escrow as soon as practicable after the last day of the Period of Restriction. The Board, in its discretion, may accelerate the time at which any restrictions shall lapse or be removed. After the restrictions have lapsed, the Participant shall be entitled to have any legends removed from his or her Share certificate, and the Shares shall be freely transferable by the Participant. The Board (in its discretion) may establish procedures regarding the release of Shares from escrow and the removal of legends, as necessary or appropriate to minimize administrative burdens on the Company.
Removal of Restrictions
(d) . In the event a Participant ceases to be a Director prior to vesting (other than by reason of the Participant's death), any unvested Shares of Restricted Stock shall be forfeited by the Participant without any consideration therefor.
Termination of Status as a Director
(e) . In the event a Participant ceases to be a Director by reason of the Participant's death, the Participant's Restricted Stock shall become fully vested as of the date of death.
Death
(f) . Except as otherwise provided in Section 3 hereof, the grant of a Restricted Stock Award as provided hereunder shall result in a decrease in the number of Shares that thereafter shall be available under the Plan, by the number of Shares of Restricted Stock subject thereto. On the date set forth in the Restricted Stock agreement, the Restricted Stock for which restrictions have not lapsed shall revert to the Company and again shall become available for grant under the Plan.
Shares Available Under the Plan
 
(g) . Restricted Stock Awards to Outside Directors must comply with the applicable provisions of Rule 16b-3 of the Exchange Act and shall contain such additional conditions or restrictions as may be required thereunder to qualify Plan transactions, and other transactions by Outside Directors that could be matched with Plan transactions, for the maximum exemption from Section 16 of the Exchange Act with respect to Plan transactions.
Rule 16b-3
10. . Unless otherwise determined by the Board, Options and Restricted Stock Awards may not be sold, pledged, assigned, hypothecated, transferred, or disposed of in any manner other than by will or by the laws of descent or distribution. Options may be exercised, during the lifetime of the Participant, only by the Participant. If the Board makes an Option or Restricted Stock Award transferable, such award shall contain such additional terms and conditions as the Board deems appropriate; provided, however, that such award shall in no event be transferable for value. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Participant may, if the Board (in its discretion) so permits, transfer an Option or Restricted Stock Award granted on or after March 13, 2008 to an individual or entity other than the Company. Any such transfer shall be made in accordance with such procedures as the Board may specify from time to time.
Non-Transferability of Options and Restricted Stock Awards
11. .
Adjustments Upon Changes in Capitalization, Dissolution, Merger, Asset Sale or Change of Control
(a) . Subject to any required action by the stockholders of the Company, the number of Shares covered by each outstanding Option and Restricted Stock Award, the number of Shares which have been authorized for issuance under the Plan but as to which no Options or Restricted Stock Awards have yet been granted or which have been returned to the Plan upon cancellation or expiration of an Option or forfeiture of Restricted Stock, as well as the price per Share covered by each such outstanding Option, as applicable, shall be proportionately adjusted for any increase or decrease in the number of issued Shares resulting from a stock split, spin off, reverse stock split, stock dividend, combination or reclassification of the Common Stock, or any other increase or decrease in the number of issued Shares effected without receipt of consideration by the Company; provided, however, that conversion of any convertible securities of the Company shall not be deemed to have been "effected without receipt of consideration." Except as expressly provided herein, no issuance by the Company of shares of stock of any class, or securities convertible into shares of stock of any class, shall affect, and no adjustment by reason thereof shall be made with respect to, the number or price of Shares subject to an Option or Restricted Stock Award.
Changes in Capitalization
(b) . In the event of a proposed dissolution or liquidation of the Company, Options and Restricted Stock (other than Restricted Stock granted in accordance with Section 4(c)(iii) on or after March 13, 2008) shall become fully vested and, in the case of Options, fully exercisable, including as to Shares as to which it would not otherwise be exercisable. To the extent an Option remains unexercised at the time of the dissolution or liquidation, the Option shall terminate.
Dissolution or Liquidation
(c) . In the event of (i) a merger of the Company with or into another corporation, other than a merger which would result in the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity or its parent) at least fifty percent (50%) of the total voting power represented by the voting securities of the Company or such surviving entity or its parent outstanding immediately after such merger or (ii) the sale of substantially all of
Merger or Asset Sale
 
the assets of the Company, Restricted Stock shall fully vest and outstanding Options may be assumed or equivalent options may be substituted by the successor corporation or a parent or subsidiary thereof (the "Successor Corporation"). If an Option is assumed or substituted for, the Option or equivalent option shall continue to be exercisable as provided in Section 4 hereof for so long as the Participant serves as a Director or a director of the Successor Corporation. Following such assumption or substitution, if the Participant's status as a Director or director of the Successor Corporation, as applicable, is terminated other than upon a voluntary resignation by the Participant, the Option or option shall become fully exercisable, including as to Shares for which it would not otherwise be exercisable. Thereafter, the Option or option shall remain exercisable in accordance with Sections 8(c) through (e) above.
If the Successor Corporation does not assume an outstanding Option or substitute for it an equivalent option, the Option shall become fully vested and exercisable, including as to Shares for which it would not otherwise be exercisable. In such event the Board shall notify the Participant that the Option shall be fully exercisable for a period of thirty (30) days from the date of such notice, and upon the expiration of such period the Option shall terminate.
For the purposes of this Section 11(c), an Option shall be considered assumed if, following the merger or sale of assets, the Option confers the right to purchase or receive, for each Share of Optioned Stock subject to the Option immediately prior to the merger or sale of assets, the consideration (whether stock, cash, or other securities or property) received in the merger or sale of assets by holders of Common Stock for each Share held on the effective date of the transaction (and if holders were offered a choice of consideration, the type of consideration chosen by the holders of a majority of the outstanding Shares).
12. .
Amendment and Termination of the Plan
(a) . The Board may at any time amend, alter, suspend, or discontinue the Plan, but no amendment, alteration, suspension, or discontinuation shall be made which would impair the rights of any Participant under any grant theretofore made, without his or her consent. In addition, to the extent necessary and desirable to comply with any applicable law or regulation, the Company shall obtain stockholder approval of any Plan amendment in such a manner and to such a degree as required.
Amendment and Termination
(b) . Any such amendment or termination of the Plan shall not impair the rights of any Participant under Options or Restricted Stock already granted without his or her consent and, in the absence of such consent, such Options and Restricted Stock shall remain in full force and effect as if this Plan had not been amended or terminated.
Effect of Amendment or Termination
13. . The date of grant of an Option or Restricted Stock Award shall, for all purposes, be the date determined in accordance with Section 4 hereof. Notice of the determination shall be given to each Outside Director to whom an Option or Restricted Stock Award is so granted within a reasonable time after the date of such grant.
Time of Granting Options or Restricted Stock Awards
14. . Shares shall not be issued pursuant to the exercise of an Option or grant of a Restricted Stock Award unless the exercise of such Option or grant of such Restricted Stock Award and the issuance and delivery of such Shares pursuant thereto
Conditions Upon Issuance of Shares
 
shall comply with all relevant provisions of law, including, without limitation, the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, the Exchange Act, the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, state securities laws, and the requirements of any stock exchange upon which the Shares may then be listed, and shall be further subject to the approval of counsel for the Company with respect to such compliance.
As a condition to the exercise of an Option or receipt of Shares under a Restricted Stock Award, the Company may require the person exercising such Option or receiving Shares of Restricted Stock to represent and warrant at the time of any such exercise or receipt that the Shares are being purchased only for investment and without any present intention to sell or distribute such Shares, if, in the opinion of counsel for the Company, such a representation is required by any of the aforementioned relevant provisions of law.
Inability of the Company to obtain authority from any regulatory body having jurisdiction, which authority is deemed by the Company's counsel to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any Shares hereunder, shall relieve the Company of any liability in respect of the failure to issue or sell such Shares as to which such requisite authority shall not have been obtained.
15. . The Company, during the term of this Plan, will at all times reserve and keep available such number of Shares as shall be sufficient to satisfy the requirements of the Plan.
Reservation of Shares
16. . Options and Restricted Stock Awards shall be evidenced by written agreements in such form as the Board shall approve.
Agreements
17. . Continuance of the Plan shall be subject to approval by the stockholders of the Company at or prior to the first annual meeting of stockholders held subsequent to the adoption of the Plan. Such stockholder approval shall be obtained in the degree and manner required under applicable state and federal law.
Stockholder Approval
18. . All obligations of the Company under the Plan, with respect to Options and Restricted Stock Awards granted hereunder, shall be binding on any successor to the Company, whether the existence of such successor is the result of a direct or indirect purchase, merger, consolidation, or otherwise, of all or substantially all of the business or assets of the Company.
Successors
19. . Except where otherwise indicated by the context, any masculine term used herein also shall include the feminine; the plural shall include the singular and the singular shall include the plural.
Gender and Number
20. . In the event any provision of the Plan shall be held illegal or invalid for any reason, the illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts of the Plan, and the Plan shall be construed and enforced as if the illegal or invalid provision had not been included.
Severability
21. . The Plan and all award agreements shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of California (with the exception of its conflict of laws provisions).
Governing Law
22. . Captions are provided herein for convenience only, and shall not serve as a basis for interpretation or construction of the Plan.
Captions
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
On August 17, 2007, Autodesk, Inc. ("") entered into a Credit Agreement (the "") with Citibank, N.A. (""), as agent and the lenders party to the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement provides for a $250,000,000 unsecured revolving credit facility, which may be used to borrow revolving loans for working capital and general corporate purposes of Autodesk and its subsidiaries.
Autodesk
Credit Agreement
Citibank
Revolving loans may be borrowed, repaid and reborrowed until August 17, 2012, at which time all amounts borrowed must be repaid. No loans are currently outstanding under the Credit Agreement. Revolving loans will bear interest, at Autodesk's option, at either (i) a floating rate per annum equal to the base rate, which is defined as the greatest of (A) Citibank's prime rate, (B) three-month certificate of deposit rates, plus 0.500%, or (C) the federal funds rate, plus 0.500%, or (ii) a per annum rate equal to the rate at which dollar deposits are offered in the London interbank market, plus a margin of between 0.400% and 1.000%, depending on Autodesk's leverage ratio as of the most recently ended fiscal quarter. In addition, a utilization fee of 0.125% per annum will be added to the above determined applicable interest rate at any date the aggregate outstanding advances exceed 50% of the aggregate commitments. A default interest rate shall apply on all obligations during a payment event of default under the Credit Agreement at a rate per annum equal to 2.000% above the applicable interest rate. Autodesk will pay to each lender a facility fee on a quarterly basis based on the amount of each lender's commitment to make loans, of between 0.100% and 0.250%, depending on Autodesk's leverage ratio as of the most recently ended fiscal quarter. Revolving loans may be prepaid without penalty. Autodesk is also obligated to pay agent fees customary for a credit facility of this size and type.
The Credit Agreement requires Autodesk to maintain a maximum leverage ratio and a minimum interest coverage ratio during the term of the credit facility as is customary for a credit facility of this size and type. In addition, the Credit Agreement contains customary affirmative and negative covenants, including covenants that limit or restrict the ability of Autodesk and its subsidiaries to, among other things, grant liens or enter into agreements restricting their ability to grant liens on property, enter into mergers, dispose of assets, change their accounting or reporting policies, change their business and incur subsidiary indebtedness, in each case subject to customary exceptions for a credit facility of this size and type.
The Credit Agreement includes customary events of default that, include among other things, non-payment of principal, interest or fees, inaccuracy of representations and warranties, violation of covenants, cross default to certain other indebtedness, bankruptcy and insolvency events, material judgments, change of control and certain ERISA events. The occurrence of an event of default could result in the acceleration of the obligations under the Credit Agreement.
Citibank and the lender parties to the Credit Agreement, and certain of their respective affiliates, have provided, and in the future may provide, financial, banking and related services to Autodesk. These parties have received, and in the future may receive, compensation from Autodesk for these services.


