FILE:ADSK/ADSK-8K-20080505160418.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Planned Resignation of Alfred J. Castino
On April 30, 2008, Alfred J. Castino informed Autodesk, Inc. (the "Company") of his intention to resign as senior vice president and chief financial officer. Mr. Castino has made a personal decision to leave the Company in order to spend more time with his family. The effective date of his departure has not yet been determined, and he has indicated that he will remain as the Company's chief financial officer while the Company conducts a search for his replacement. The Company's press release dated May 5, 2008 regarding these events is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: May 5, 2008
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 Autodesk, Inc. (NASDAQ: ADSK) today announced that Alfred Castino has informed the company of his intention to resign as senior vice president and chief financial officer. Castino has made a personal decision to leave Autodesk in order to spend more time with his family. The effective date of his departure has not yet been determined, and he has indicated that he will remain as CFO while the company conducts a search for his replacement.
SAN RAFAEL, Calif., May 5, 2008
"Al has been a key member of Autodesk's executive management team for six years," said Carl Bass, Autodesk president and CEO. He has made significant contributions to the company's overall success through his leadership of finance."
"I want to thank the Autodesk employees, Board of Directors, and executive team for making the past six years a wonderful experience for me," said Castino. "I am proud of all we have accomplished together. With the company on track, it is a good time to take a break and spend more time with my family."
A search for Castino's successor has been initiated.
About Autodesk
Autodesk, Inc. is the world leader in 2D and 3D design software for the manufacturing, building and construction, and media and entertainment markets. Since its introduction of AutoCAD software in 1982, Autodesk has developed the broadest portfolio of state-of-the-art digital prototyping solutions to help customers experience their ideas before they are real. Fortune 1000 companies rely on Autodesk for the tools to visualize, simulate and analyze real-world performance early in the design process to save time and money, enhance quality and foster innovation. For additional information about Autodesk, visit .
http://www.autodesk.com
Note: Autodesk is a registered trademark of Autodesk, Inc., in the US and/or other countries.


