FILE:ADSK/ADSK-8K-20081120160736.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On November 20, 2008, Autodesk, Inc. issued a press release reporting financial results for the quarter ended October 31, 2008.  The press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
This information shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
To supplement Autodesks consolidated financial statements presented on a GAAP basis, the press release furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 provides investors with certain non-GAAP measures, including historical non-GAAP net earnings and historical and future non-GAAP net earnings per diluted share. For our internal budgeting and resource allocation process, Autodesks management uses these non-GAAP measures that do not include: (a) the stock-based compensation impact of SFAS 123R, (b) amortization of purchased intangibles and purchases of technology that result in in-process research and development expense, (c) certain payments to employees for tax issues arising from Autodesks voluntary stock option review, (d) investment impairment, and (e) the income tax effects on the difference between GAAP and non-GAAP costs and expenses. Autodesks management uses these non-GAAP measures in making operating decisions because we believe the measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding Autodesks earning potential. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures facilitate comparisons to competitors historical results and operating guidance.
 
As described above, Autodesk excludes the following items from its non-GAAP measures:
 
A. Stock compensation impact of SFAS 123R. These expenses consist of expenses for employee stock-based compensation under SFAS 123R. Autodesk excludes stock-based compensation expenses from our non-GAAP measures primarily because they are non-cash expenses and management finds it useful to exclude certain non-cash charges to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods. Further, as Autodesk applies SFAS 123R, we believe that it is useful to investors to understand the impact of the application of SFAS 123R to our results of operations.
 
B. Amortization of purchased intangibles and in-process research and development expenses. Autodesk incurs amortization of acquisition-related purchased intangible assets and charges related to in-process research and development, primarily in connection with its acquisition of certain businesses and technologies. The amortization of purchased intangibles from business combinations varies depending on the level of acquisition activity and management finds it useful to exclude these variable charges to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods.
 
C. Reimbursement to employees for tax issues arising from the voluntary stock option review. This expense consists of payments made to our employees relating to tax payments they may incur as a result of our voluntary stock option review. Autodesk excludes these payments from our non-GAAP measures primarily because they are non-recurring items and management finds it useful to exclude these charges to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods.
 
D. Investment impairment. This is a non-cash charge to write-down an investment to fair value when there was an indication that the investment was impaired. As explained above, management finds it useful to exclude certain non-cash charges to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods.
E. Income tax effects. The income tax effects that are excluded from the non-GAAP measures relate to the tax impact on the difference between GAAP and non-GAAP costs and expenses, primarily due to differences in the timing of when income tax benefits are recognized for stock compensation and purchased intangibles for GAAP and non-GAAP measures.
 
 
 
 
 
There are limitations in using non-GAAP financial measures because the non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. In addition, the non-GAAP financial measures are limited in value because they exclude certain items that may have a material impact upon our reported financial results. Management compensates for these limitations by analyzing current and future results on a GAAP basis as well as a non-GAAP basis and also by providing GAAP measures in our earnings release. The presentation of non-GAAP financial information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The non-GAAP financial measures are meant to supplement, and be viewed in conjunction with, GAAP financial measures. Investors should review the information regarding non-GAAP financial measures provided in our press release.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)  Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date:
November 20, 2008
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
TO BUSINESS EDITOR:
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including statements in the paragraphs under "Business Outlook" above, statements regarding anticipated market trends and other statements regarding our expected investments, strategies, performance and results. Other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include the following: general market and business conditions, our performance in particular geographies, including emerging economies, the financial and business condition of our reseller and distribution channels, fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates, failure to achieve planned cost reductions and productivity increases, difficulties encountered in integrating new or acquired businesses and technologies, the inability to identify and realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions, unexpected fluctuations in our tax rate, the timing and degree of expected investments in growth opportunities, slowing momentum in maintenance revenues, failure to achieve sufficient sell-through in our channels for new or existing products, pricing pressure, failure to achieve continued migration from 2D products to 3D products, changes in the timing of product releases and retirements, failure of key new applications to achieve anticipated levels of customer acceptance, failure to achieve continued success in technology advancements, interruptions or terminations in the business of Autodesk consultants, and unanticipated impact of accounting for technology acquisitions.
 
Further information on potential factors that could affect the financial results of Autodesk are included in Autodesk reports on Form 10-K for the year ended January 31, 2008 and our Forms 10-Q for the quarters ended April 30, 2008 and July 31, 2008, which are on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Autodesk does not assume any obligation to update the forward-looking statements provided to reflect events that occur or circumstances that exist after the date on which they were made.
Earnings Conference Call and Webcast
 
Autodesk will host its third quarter conference call today at 5:00 p.m. EST. The live announcement may be accessed at http://www.autodesk.com/investors or by dialing 866-510-0710 or 617-597-5378 (passcode: 46764406). An audio webcast or podcast of the call will be available at 7:00 pm EST at http://www.autodesk.com/investors. This replay will be maintained on our website for at least twelve months. An audio replay will also be available for one month beginning at 7:00 pm EST by dialing 888-286-8010 or 617-801-6888 (passcode: 73660289).
About Autodesk
 
Autodesk, Inc. is the world leader in 2D and 3D design software for the manufacturing, building and construction, and media and entertainment markets. Since its introduction of AutoCAD software in 1982, Autodesk has developed the broadest portfolio of state-of-the-art digital prototyping solutions to help customers experience their ideas before they are real. Fortune 1000 companies rely on Autodesk for the tools to visualize, simulate and analyze real-world performance early in the design process to save time and money, enhance quality and foster innovation. For additional information about Autodesk, visit http://www.autodesk.com.
Note: AutoCAD, AutoCAD LT, Autodesk, Civil 3D, Inventor, Revit, NavisWorks, Moldflow and Robobat are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Autodesk, Inc. and/or its affiliates in the US and/or other countries. All other brand names, product names or trademarks belong to their respective holders.
Autodesk, Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Income
(In millions, except per share data)
 
Autodesk, Inc.
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets
(In millions)
 
 
Autodesk, Inc.
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
(In millions)
 
Autodesk, Inc.
Reconciliation of GAAP financial measures to non-GAAP financial measures
(In millions, except per share data)
To supplement our consolidated financial statements presented on a GAAP basis, Autodesk provides investors with certain non-GAAP measures including non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per share, non-GAAP cost of license and other revenue, non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP income from operations, non-GAAP interest and other income, net and non-GAAP provision for income taxes. These non-GAAP financial measures are adjusted to exclude certain costs, expenses, gains and losses, including stock-based compensation expense, employee tax reimbursements related to our stock option review, litigation expenses, in-process research and development expenses, restructuring expenses, amortization of purchased intangibles, investment impairment and income tax expenses. See our reconciliation of GAAP financial measures to non-GAAP financial measures herein. We believe these exclusions are appropriate to enhance an overall understanding of our past financial performance and also our prospects for the future, as well as to facilitate comparisons with our historical operating results. These adjustments to our GAAP results are made with the intent of providing both management and investors a more complete understanding of Autodesk's underlying operational results and trends and our marketplace performance. For example, the non-GAAP results are an indication of our baseline performance before gains, losses or other charges that are considered by management to be outside our core operating results. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures are
 
among the primary indicators management uses as a basis for our planning and forecasting of future periods.
There are limitations in using
non-GAAP financial
measures because the
non-GAAP financial
measures are not prepared in
accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles and may be
different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies.
The non-GAAP financial measures are limited in value because they
exclude certain items that may have a material impact upon our
reported financial results. The presentation of this additional
information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a
substitute for the directly comparable financial measures prepared in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United
States. Investors should review the reconciliation of the non-GAAP
financial measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial
measures as provided in the tables accompanying this press release.
The following table shows Autodesk's non-GAAP results reconciled to GAAP results included in this release.
 
 
 
 
 


