FILE:ADSK/ADSK-8K-20080318161243.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Decisions Regarding Re-election to Board of Directors
On March 12, 2008, Larry Wangberg and Michael Fister each informed the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Autodesk, Inc. ("Autodesk") that they will not seek re-election to the Board. In order to assure a smooth transition, both Messrs. Wangberg and Fister will continue to serve on the Board and Board committees through Autodesk's 2008 annual meeting of stockholders (the "2008 Annual Meeting").
Committee Appointments
On March 13, 2008, the Board approved changes to Board committees as of June 12, 2008, the date of the 2008 Annual Meeting, as follows:
 
 
 
Approval of Executive Incentive Plan Participants, Target Awards and Payout Formulas for Fiscal Year 2009
On March 12, 2008, the Compensation and Human Resources Committee (the "Committee") of the Board determined the participants, target awards and payout formulas for fiscal year 2009 under Autodesk's Executive Incentive Plan (the "EIP"). The EIP was approved by the stockholders in June 2005 and is intended to permit the payment of bonuses that may qualify as performance-based compensation under Internal Revenue Code Section 162(m).
For fiscal year 2009, the Committee determined that Carl Bass, George M. Bado, Alfred J. Castino, Jan Becker, Pascal W. Di Fronzo, Jay Bhatt, Amar Hanspal, Robert Kross, Marc Petit, Chris Bradshaw, Moonhie Chin, and Jeffery Kowalski would be participants in the EIP. For each participant, the Committee established a target award equal to a specified percentage ranging from 16.7% to 100%, of such participant's base salary. The Committee also determined a payout formula for each participant related to achievement of certain growth in revenues as compared to fiscal 2008 as well as certain non-GAAP operating margin levels.
The actual bonuses payable for fiscal year 2009 (if any) will vary depending on the extent to which actual performance meets, exceeds or falls short of the goals approved by the Committee and other factors set forth in the EIP. Accordingly, each participant could receive a bonus ranging from zero percent (for performance falling short of the goals) to 190% (for performance exceeding the goals) of the specified target percentage of such participant's base salary as described above. The Committee retains discretion to reduce or eliminate (but not increase) the bonus that otherwise would be payable based on actual performance. Moreover, each of the individuals named above must remain an employee for all of fiscal year 2009 in order to be eligible for any bonus.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: March 18, 2008


