FILE:ADSK/ADSK-8K-20091117171911.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On November 17, 2009, Autodesk, Inc. (Autodesk or the Company) issued a press release and prepared remarks reporting financial results for the third quarter ended October 31, 2009.  The press release and prepared remarks are furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference.
 
These exhibits shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
To supplement Autodesks consolidated financial statements presented on a GAAP basis, the press release and prepared remarks furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, respectively, provide investors with certain non-GAAP measures, including but not limited to historical non-GAAP net earnings and historical and future non-GAAP net earnings per diluted share. For our internal budgeting and resource allocation process, Autodesks management uses these non-GAAP measures that do not include: (a) stock-based compensation expenses, (b) amortization of purchased intangibles and purchases of technology, including in-process research and development, (c) goodwill impairment, (d) establishment of a valuation allowance on certain net deferred tax assets, (e) restructuring charges and (f) the income tax effects on the difference between GAAP and non-GAAP costs and expenses.  Autodesks management uses these non-GAAP measures in making operating decisions because we believe the measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding Autodesks earning potential. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures facilitate comparisons to our and our competitors historical results and operating guidance.
 
As described above, Autodesk excludes the following items from its non-GAAP measures:
 
A.   Autodesk excludes stock-based compensation expenses from its non-GAAP measures primarily because they are non-cash expenses and management finds it useful to exclude certain non-cash charges to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods.
Stock-based compensation expenses.
 
B. Autodesk incurs amortization of acquisition-related purchased intangible assets and charges related to in-process research and development, primarily in connection with its acquisition of certain businesses and technologies. The amortization of purchased intangibles varies depending on the level of acquisition activity, and management finds it useful to exclude these variable charges to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods.
Amortization of purchased intangibles and in-process research and development expenses.
 
C. This is a non-cash charge to write-down goodwill to fair value when there was an indication that the asset was impaired. As explained above, management finds it useful to exclude certain non-cash charges to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods.
Goodwill impairment.
 
D. This is a non-cash charge to record a valuation allowance on certain deferred tax assets. As explained above, management finds it useful to exclude certain non-cash charges to assess the appropriate level of various expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods.
Establishment of a valuation allowance on certain net deferred tax assets.
 
E. These expenses are associated with realigning our business strategies based on current economic conditions. In connection with these restructuring actions, we recognize costs related to termination benefits for former employees whose positions were eliminated, and the closure of facilities and cancelation of certain contracts. We exclude these charges because these expenses are not reflective of ongoing operating results in the current period.
Restructuring charges.
 
 
F. The income tax effects that are excluded from the non-GAAP measures relate to the tax impact on the difference between GAAP and non-GAAP costs and expenses, primarily due to differences in the timing of when income tax benefits are recognized for stock compensation and purchased intangibles for GAAP and non-GAAP measures.
Income tax effects.
 
There are limitations in using non-GAAP financial measures because the non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. In addition, the non-GAAP financial measures are limited in value because they exclude certain items that may have a material impact upon our reported financial results. Management compensates for these limitations by analyzing current and future results on a GAAP basis as well as a non-GAAP basis and also by providing GAAP measures in our earnings release and prepared remarks. The presentation of non-GAAP financial information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The non-GAAP financial measures are meant to supplement, and be viewed in conjunction with, GAAP financial measures. Investors should review the information regarding non-GAAP financial measures provided in our press release and prepared remarks.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)  Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date:  November 17, 2009
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Investors 
David Gennarelli, 415.507.6033,
david.gennarelli@autodesk.com
Press :
Pam Pollace, 415.547.2441,
pam.pollace@autodesk.com
Michael Cabot, 415-547-2439,
michael.cabot@autodesk.com
 
Autodesk Increases Profitability in Third Quarter Fiscal 2010
-- (NASDAQ: ADSK) today reported financial results for the third quarter of fiscal 2010.
SAN RAFAEL, Calif., November 17, 2009
Autodesk, Inc.
 
 
1
 
Revenue in the Americas increased 2 percent sequentially to $164 million and decreased 25 percent compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2009.  EMEA revenue increased 1 percent sequentially as reported, to $159 million, and declined 3 percent on a constant currency basis.  EMEA revenue decreased 38 percent compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2009 as reported, and 35 percent on a constant currency basis.  Revenue in Asia Pacific was $94 million, a decrease of 4 percent sequentially as reported, and 7 percent on a constant currency basis.  Revenue in Asia Pacific decreased 29 percent compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2009 as reported, and 33 percent on a constant currency basis.
Revenue from emerging economies was $62 million, a decline of 2 percent sequentially as reported and 3 percent on a constant currency basis.  Revenue from emerging economies decreased 46 percent compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2009 as reported and 45 percent on a constant currency basis.  Revenue from emerging economies represented 15 percent of total revenue in the quarter.
Combined revenue from Autodesk's model-based 3D design solutions was $122 million, flat sequentially and a decline of 25 percent compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2009.  Revenue from 2D horizontal and vertical products was $189 million, a slight decrease sequentially and a decline of 37 percent compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2009.  Combined revenue from our AutoCAD and AutoCAD LT products increased 2 percent sequentially and decreased 39 percent compared to the third quarter last year.
With more than $1 billion in cash and investments, no debt, and positive cash flows, Autodesk remains in solid financial condition, continued Bass.  We are on track to deliver more than $300 million in pre-tax cost savings in fiscal 2010 compared to fiscal 2009.  We will continue to strive to increase our efficiencies and profitability while making essential investments for the future.
During the current quarter, Autodesk determined that the way in which its third-party software application accounted for estimated forfeitures in stock-based compensation calculations was incorrect.  As a result, fiscal third quarter 2010 GAAP results include a one-time adjustment to increase stock-based compensation expense by $7.9 million net of tax, or approximately $0.03 per diluted share.  This is a cumulative adjustment from prior periods.  For the nine month period ended October 31, 2009 the cumulative adjustment from prior periods was $6.8 million net of tax or $0.03 per diluted share.
Business Outlook
 
2
 
The following are forward-looking statements that are based on current expectations that involve risks and uncertainties, some of which are set forth below.
Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2010
For the fourth quarter, Autodesk expects revenue to be in the range of $420 million to $440 million.  GAAP earnings per diluted share are expected to be in the range of $0.07 and $0.12.  Non-GAAP earnings per diluted share are expected to be in the range of $0.19 and $0.24, excluding $0.06 related to stock-based compensation expense and $0.06 for amortization of acquisition related intangibles.
 
Full Year Fiscal 2010
Net revenue for fiscal 2010 is expected to be in the range of $1.68 billion and $1.7 billion. GAAP earnings per diluted share are expected to be in the range of $0.11 and $0.16. Non-GAAP earnings per diluted share are expected to be in the range of $0.88 and $0.93 and exclude $0.29 related to stock-based compensation expense, $0.18 for the amortization of acquisition related intangibles, $0.15 for restructuring charges, $0.06 related to goodwill impairment, and$0.09 related to the establishment of a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets.
 
 
In addition, Autodesk anticipates total GAAP pre-tax spend (operating expenses plus cost of goods sold) for fiscal 2010 to range between $1.65 billion and $1.66 billion, which is lower than fiscal 2009 by between $407 and $417 million.  The company anticipates total non-GAAP pre-tax spend (operating expenses plus cost of goods sold) for fiscal 2010 to range between $1.42 billion and $1.43 billion, which is lower than fiscal 2009 by between $300 and $310 million. Total non-GAAP pre-tax spend excludes approximately $95 million of stock-based compensation expense, $60 million of amortization of acquisition related intangibles, $50 million of restructuring charges and $20 million of goodwill impairment charges, which are included in total GAAP pre-tax spend.
First Quarter 2011 and Full Year Fiscal 2011
Autodesk is not providing specific revenue or EPS guidance for fiscal 2011 at this time.  However, in the first quarter of fiscal 2011, GAAP operating margin is expected to increase year-over-year as the company recorded significant impairment charges in the first quarter of fiscal 2010 that it does not anticipate recording in fiscal 2011.  Non-GAAP operating margin in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 is anticipated to be flat to slightly down compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2010, as a result of normal seasonality and the return of some costs that were suppressed in the first quarter of fiscal 2010.
 
3
 
GAAP operating margin for the full year fiscal 2011 is expected to increase as the company recorded significant impairment charges in fiscal 2010 that it does not anticipate recording in fiscal 2011.  Autodesk anticipates modest improvement in non-GAAP operating margin for full year fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010.
 
Non-GAAP operating margin excludes stock-based compensation expense, amortization of acquisition related intangibles, restructuring charges and goodwill impairments.
 
Earnings Conference Call and Webcast
Autodesk will host its third quarter conference call today at 5:00 p.m. EST. The live broadcast can be accessed at http://www.autodesk.com/investors. Supplemental financial information and prepared remarks for the conference call will be posted to the investor relations section of our website simultaneously with this press release.
 
The prepared remarks will not be read on the conference call.  The conference call will include only brief remarks followed by questions and answers.
NOTE:
 
A replay of the broadcast will be available at 7:00 pm EST at http://www.autodesk.com/investors. This replay will be maintained on our website for at least twelve months.
 
Safe Harbor Statement
This press release contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including statements in the paragraphs under Business Outlook above, statements regarding anticipated market, economic and revenue trends, cost savings, timing of certain charges and other statements regarding our expected strategies, market position, performance and results.  Other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include the following:  general market, economic and business conditions, our performance in particular geographies, including emerging economies, the financial and business condition of our reseller and distribution channels, fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates, failure to achieve and maintain planned cost reductions and productivity increases, slowing momentum in maintenance revenues, failure to achieve sufficient sell-through in our channels for new or existing products, pricing pressure, failure to achieve continued migration from 2D products to 3D products, difficulties encountered in integrating new or acquired businesses and technologies, the inability to identify and realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions, unexpected fluctuations in our tax rate, the timing and degree of expected investments in growth opportunities, changes in the timing of product releases and retirements, failure of key new applications to achieve anticipated levels of customer acceptance, failure to achieve continued success in technology advancements, interruptions or terminations in the business of Autodesk consultants, and any unanticipated accounting charges.
 
4
 
Further information on potential factors that could affect the financial results of Autodesk are included in Autodesks reports on Form 10-K for the year ended January 31, 2009 and Forms 10-Q for the quarters ended April 30, 2009 and July 31, 2009, which are on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Autodesk does not assume any obligation to update the forward-looking statements provided to reflect events that occur or circumstances that exist after the date on which they were made.
 
About Autodesk
Autodesk, Inc., is a world leader in 2D and , engineering and entertainment software for the manufacturing, building and construction, and media and entertainment markets. Since its introduction of AutoCAD software in 1982, Autodesk continues to develop the broadest portfolio of state-of-the-art software to help customers experience their ideas digitally before they are built. Fortune 100 companies - as well as the last 14 Academy Award winners for Best Visual Effects - use tools to design, visualize and simulate their ideas to save time and money, enhance quality, and foster innovation for competitive advantage. For additional information about Autodesk, visit .
3D design
Autodesk software
www.autodesk.com
 
Autodesk, AutoCAD, AutoCAD LT are registered trademarks or trademarks of Autodesk, Inc., and/or its subsidiaries and/or affiliates in the USA and/or other countries. Academy Award is a registered trademark of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences. All other brand names, product names or trademarks belong to their respective holders. Autodesk reserves the right to alter product offerings and specifications at any time without notice, and is not responsible for typographical or graphical errors that may appear in this document.  2009 Autodesk, Inc. All rights reserved.
 
 2009 Autodesk, Inc. All rights reserved.
 
5
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
Autodesk is posting a copy of these prepared remarks in combination with its press release to its investor website.  These prepared remarks are offered to provide shareholders and analysts with additional time and detail for analyzing our results in advance of our quarterly conference call. As previously scheduled, the conference call will begin today, November 17, 2009 at 2:00 pm PST (5:00 pm EST) and will include only brief comments followed by questions and answers. These prepared remarks will not be read on the call.
 
To access the live broadcast of the question and answer session, please visit the Investor Relations section of Autodesks Website at www.autodesk.com/investor.  A complete reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP results is provided in the tables following these prepared remarks.
 
3Q Fiscal 2010 Overview
Our business appears to be increasingly stable as evidenced by our sequentially flat total revenue and sequential increases in a number of important metrics.  In addition, we continued to make progress in reducing our operating costs, which led to a significant sequential improvement in profitability.
 
1
 
Not unexpectedly, results were mixed in our various geographies.  However, global economic conditions in Autodesks core markets were increasingly stable relative to the conditions experienced in late calendar 2008, and the early part of calendar 2009.
In addition to posting flat sequential revenue and increased profitability, there were a number of other positive data points including a 4 percent sequential increase in revenue from new commercial seats.  Growth in revenue from commercial new seats is an essential building block in growing our revenue base over the long term.
Once again our government business grew both sequentially and on a year-over-year basis as we experienced strong growth with U.S. federal agencies.  While we are encouraged by the growth of sales into government organizations, we believe this is still largely based on our growing presence in this area and not yet related to U.S. government stimulus spending, which continues to be difficult to trace.
This quarter we were pleased to see sequential growth in our 2D horizontal products, AutoCAD and AutoCAD LT, which had been impacted more significantly than our other design solutions during this recession. 
In fact, revenue from Auto CAD and Auto CAD LT accounted for the majority of the growth in revenue from commercial new seats. 
 
Revenue from our model-based 3D design solutions was flat sequentially.  Sequential growth in our Civil 3D, Navisworks, Robot Structural Analysis and Moldflow products was offset by sequential declines in both the Inventor and Revit product families.
Emerging economies were a key component to our growth prior to the recession and we believe they will continue to be a key component to our revenue mix and future growth.  Revenue from emerging economies posted a small sequential decrease in the third quarter after showing a sequential increase last quarter.  Our design, manufacturing and engineering solutions are ideally suited to help these countries build out their infrastructures.  Revenue from emerging economies experienced significant declines year-over-year.
On the expense side, we made further progress in creating efficiencies within our organization and reducing our overall expense structure.  GAAP operating expenses declined 5 percent sequentially and 17 percent compared to the third quarter last year.  Non-GAAP operating expenses declined 1 percent sequentially and 21 percent compared to the third quarter last year.  The cost savings we have achieved in the first nine months of this fiscal year are significant.  These reductions were made to better align our .  We will continue to look for opportunities to improve the progress weve made in this area while making essential investments in the future.
business and cost structure with the current operating environment
2
 
Consistent with normal seasonality, operating expenses are expected to increase sequentially in the fourth quarter.  Regardless, we now believe we will exceed our plan of reducing pre-tax spend (operating expenses plus cost of goods sold) by $300 million in fiscal 2010, compared to fiscal 2009.
Autodesks financial position remains solid.  The companys cash and investments balance increased slightly and remains over $1 billion with no debt.  In addition, during the third quarter, Autodesk repurchased 1.7 million shares of common stock.
While our markets have become increasingly stable over the past two quarters, reliable forecasting beyond one quarter remains challenging.  While it is encouraging that some of the broader economic indicators are showing some improvement, the loss of jobs in our primary markets of architecture, construction and manufacturing continues to create a headwind for our business.
Revenue Analysis
 
 
Total net revenue for the third quarter was $417 million, a slight increase sequentially and a decrease of 31 percent as compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2009.  At constant currency, revenue for the third quarter decreased 2 percent sequentially and decreased 31 percent as compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2009.
 
License and other revenue was $236 million, an increase of 2 percent sequentially, and a decrease of 44 percent compared to the third quarter last year.
 
Maintenance revenue was $181 million, a decrease of 2 percent sequentially, and 3 percent compared to the third quarter of last year.  Maintenance billings declined 4 percent sequentially and 10 percent year-over-year.  Our maintenance billings metric contains adjustments for a number of items resulting in what we believe is a clearer reflection of our maintenance billings and the underlying business trends.  For the past four quarters, maintenance billings have been impacted by lower renewal rates as well as fewer new seats sold.   
 
3
Encouragingly, maintenance renewal rates in the third quarter appear to have stabilized relative to the declines we experienced in the prior four quarters.  This is also reflected in our installed base of commercial maintenance customers, which was approximately flat sequentially.  Renewal rates had been impacted as customers have reduced their work forces resulting in fewer seats to renew.
 
Revenue by Geography
 
 
Revenue in the Americas increased 2 percent sequentially and declined 25 percent compared to the third quarter last year.  Revenue in the U.S., Brazil and Mexico posted sequential increases while Canada declined sequentially.
EMEA revenue increased 1 percent sequentially as reported and decreased 3 percent sequentially at constant currency.  EMEA revenue was led by growth in Northern Europe as well as emerging countries. EMEA revenue decreased 38 percent year-over-year as reported and 35 percent at constant currency.
 
Revenue from Asia Pacific decreased 4 percent sequentially as reported, and 7 percent at constant currency.  Strong sequential growth in South Korea and India was offset by sequential declines in most other countries in APAC.  Compared to the third quarter of last year, revenue from Asia Pacific decreased 29 percent as reported and 33 percent at constant currency.
4
 
Revenue from emerging economies decreased 2 percent sequentially as reported, and 46 percent compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2009.  At constant currency, revenue from emerging economies decreased 3 percent sequentially and 45 percent compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2009.  Similar to our overall results, performance of emerging economies was mixed in various geographies.
 
Revenue by Product Type
 
 
Revenue from our model-based 3D design solutions were $122 million, flat sequentially and a decline of 25 percent compared to third quarter last year.  Sequential growth in our Civil 3D, Navisworks, Robot Structural Analysis and Moldflow products was offset by sequential declines in both the Inventor and Revit families.
Our 2D horizontal products grew 2 percent sequentially, and decreased 39 percent compared to the third quarter last year.  2D vertical products continued to show both a sequential and year-over-year decrease.  Combined revenue from 2D horizontal and 2D vertical products was $189 million, a decrease of 1 percent sequentially and 37 percent compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2009.
Revenue by Business Segment
 
 
Revenue from Platform Solutions increased 3 percent sequentially to $154 million.  Platform Solutions decreased 36 percent compared to the third quarter last year.
 
Revenue from our AEC segment increased 2 percent sequentially to $125 million.  Revenue from our AEC segment decreased 24 percent compared to the third quarter last year.  Revenue from our Civil 3D family of products increased 8 percent sequentially and decreased 18 percent compared to the third quarter last year.  Revenue from our Revit family of products decreased 2 percent sequentially and 31 percent compared to the third quarter last year.
 
5
 
Revenue from our Manufacturing segment was $90 million, a decrease of 6 percent sequentially, and 28 percent compared to the third quarter last year.  Revenue from the Inventor family of products decreased 6 percent sequentially and 29 percent compared to the third quarter last year.
 
Revenue from our Media and Entertainment segment was $48 million, a 3 percent increase sequentially and a decrease of 34 percent compared to the third quarter last year.  Revenue from animation products including 3dsMax and Maya increased 12 percent sequentially and decreased 20 percent compared to the third quarter last year.  Revenue from Advanced Systems declined 15 percent sequentially and 54 percent compared to the third quarter last year.  Going forward, we expect animation products to continue to grow as a part of the media and entertainment revenue mix.
 
Margins and EPS Review
 
 
GAAP gross margin in the third quarter was 89 percent.  Non-GAAP gross margin in the third quarter was 92 percent.  The sequential margin improvement resulted primarily from normal seasonality in subscription fulfillments, decreased vendor costs, and a more favorable product mix.
 
6
GAAP operating margin increased 5 percentage points on a sequential basis to 6 percent, driven primarily by reduced restructuring costs.  Non-GAAP operating margin, which excludes restructuring costs among other things, rose 2 percentage points on a sequential basis to 18 percent.  GAAP and non-GAAP operating margins in the third quarter decreased compared to the third quarter last year primarily due to the year-over-year drop in revenue.
 
During the current quarter, we determined that the way in which our third-party software application accounted for estimated forfeitures in our stock-based compensation calculations was incorrect.  As a result, fiscal third quarter 2010 GAAP results include a one-time adjustment to increase stock-based compensation expense by $7.9 million net of tax, or approximately $0.03 per diluted share.  This is a cumulative adjustment from prior periods.  For the nine month period ended October 31, 2009 the cumulative adjustment from prior periods was $6.8 million net of tax or $0.03 per diluted share.
 
The effective tax rate for our third quarter was 8 percent for our GAAP results and includes one-time tax benefits for statute closures, stock option exercises, and the tax impact of the stock-based compensation adjustment discussed above.  The third quarter effective tax rate for our non-GAAP results was 23 percent and includes a one-time tax benefit for statute closures.     
 
Earnings per diluted share for the third quarter were $0.13 GAAP and $0.27 non-GAAP.
 
A complete reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP results is provided in the tables following these prepared remarks.
 
Foreign Exchange Impact
 
 
Compared to the second quarter, the foreign currency impact was $10 million favorable on revenue and $5 million unfavorable on expenses.
 
7
 
Compared to the third quarter of last year, the impact of foreign currency exchange rates in the third quarter was $4 million unfavorable on revenue and $2 million favorable on expenses.
 
Balance Sheet Items and Cash Review
 
 
Total cash and investments at the end of the third quarter was over $1 billion.
 
During the third quarter Autodesk used approximately $39 million to repurchase approximately 1.7 million shares of common stock.
 
Cash flow from operating activities during the third quarter was $47 million, flat sequentially and significantly lower than the third quarter last year.
 
Shippable backlog at the end of the third quarter decreased by $4 million sequentially to $12 million.
 
Deferred revenue was $470 million, a 6 percent decrease both sequentially and compared to the third quarter last year.  The decrease is primarily due to the reduction in maintenance billings.
 
Total backlog at the end of the third quarter, including deferred revenue and shippable backlog orders was $482 million, a decrease of $23 million compared to the third quarter of last year.
 
Channel inventory at the end of the third quarter declined sequentially in weeks and in dollars.  At the end of the third quarter, channel inventory was slightly under three weeks and remains healthy.
 
8
 
DSO was 47 days in the third quarter.
 
Business Outlook
 
Our guidance is based on our current expectations and the information we have available today, including currency exchange rates.
 
Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2010
 
Non-GAAP earnings per diluted share exclude $0.06 related to stock-based compensation expense and $0.06 for amortization of acquisition related intangibles.
Full Year Fiscal 2010
 
 
Non-GAAP earnings per diluted share exclude $0.29 related to stock-based compensation expense, $0.18 for the amortization of acquisition related intangibles, $0.15 for restructuring charges, $0.06 related to goodwill impairment, and$0.09 related to the establishment of a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets.
 
In addition, the company anticipates total GAAP pre-tax spend (operating expenses plus cost of goods sold) for fiscal 2010 to range between $1.65 billion and $1.66 billion, which is lower than fiscal 2009 by between $407 and $417 million.  The company anticipates total non-GAAP pre-tax spend (operating expenses plus cost of goods sold) for fiscal 2010 to range between $1.42 billion and $1.43 billion, which is lower than fiscal 2009 by between $300 and $310 million. Total non-GAAP pre-tax spend excludes approximately $95 million of stock-based compensation expense, $60 million of amortization of acquisition related intangibles, $50 million of restructuring charges and $20 million of goodwill impairment charges, which are included in total GAAP pre-tax spend.
 
9
First Quarter Fiscal 2011 and Full Year Fiscal 2011
Autodesk is not providing specific revenue or EPS guidance for fiscal 2011 at this time.  However, in the first quarter of fiscal 2011, GAAP operating margin is expected to increase year-over-year as the company recorded significant impairment charges in the first quarter of fiscal 2010 that it does not anticipate recording in fiscal 2011.  Non-GAAP operating margin in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 is anticipated to be flat to slightly down compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2010, as a result of normal seasonality and the return of some costs that were suppressed in the first quarter of fiscal 2010.
GAAP operating margin for the full year fiscal 2011 is expected to increase more significantly as the company recorded significant impairment charges in the first quarter of fiscal 2010 that it does not anticipate recording in fiscal 2011.  Autodesk anticipates modest improvement in non-GAAP operating margin for full year fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010.
Non-GAAP operating margin excludes stock-based compensation expense, amortization of acquisition related intangibles, restructuring charges and goodwill impairments.
Safe Harbor Statement
These prepared remarks contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including statements in the paragraphs under Business Outlook, statements regarding anticipated market, economic and revenue trends, cost savings, timing of certain charges, revenue performance (including by geography and product), market position and other statements regarding our expected strategies, performance and results.  Other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include the following:  general market, economic and business conditions, our performance in particular geographies, including emerging economies, the financial and business condition of our reseller and distribution channels, fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates, failure to achieve and maintain planned cost reductions and productivity increases, slowing momentum in maintenance revenues, failure to achieve sufficient sell-through in our channels for new or existing products, pricing pressure, failure to achieve continued migration from 2D products to 3D products, difficulties encountered in integrating new or acquired businesses and technologies, the inability to identify and realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions, unexpected fluctuations in our tax rate, the timing and degree of expected investments in growth opportunities, changes in the timing of product releases and retirements, failure of key new applications to achieve anticipated levels of customer acceptance,  failure to achieve continued success in technology advancements, interruptions or terminations in the business of Autodesk consultants, and any unanticipated accounting charges.
 
10
Further information on potential factors that could affect the financial results of Autodesk are included in Autodesks reports on Form 10-K for the year ended January 31, 2009 and Forms 10-Q for the quarters ended April 30, 2009 and July 31, 2009, which are on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Autodesk does not assume any obligation to update the forward-looking statements provided to reflect events that occur or circumstances that exist after the date on which they were made.
 2009 Autodesk, Inc. All rights reserved.
 
11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


