FILE:ADSK/ADSK-8K-20090226160743.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Material Impairments	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Material Impairments
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On February 26, 2009, Autodesk, Inc. issued a press release reporting financial results for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended January 31, 2009.  The press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
This information shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
To supplement Autodesks consolidated financial statements presented on a GAAP basis, the press release furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 provides investors with certain non-GAAP measures, including historical non-GAAP net earnings and historical and future non-GAAP net earnings per diluted share. For our internal budgeting and resource allocation process, Autodesks management uses these non-GAAP measures that do not include: (a) the stock-based compensation impact of SFAS 123R, (b) amortization of purchased intangibles and purchases of technology that result in in-process research and development expense, (c) certain payments to employees for tax issues arising from Autodesks voluntary stock option review, (d) asset impairments, (e) investment impairments, (f) restructuring charges and (g) the income tax effects on the difference between GAAP and non-GAAP costs and expenses. Autodesks management uses these non-GAAP measures in making operating decisions because we believe the measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding Autodesks earning potential. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures facilitate comparisons to competitors historical results and operating guidance.
 
As described above, Autodesk excludes the following items from its non-GAAP measures:
 
A. Stock compensation impact of SFAS 123R. These expenses consist of expenses for employee stock-based compensation under SFAS 123R. Autodesk excludes stock-based compensation expenses from our non-GAAP measures primarily because they are non-cash expenses and management finds it useful to exclude certain non-cash charges to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods. Further, as Autodesk applies SFAS 123R, we believe that it is useful to investors to understand the impact of the application of SFAS 123R to our results of operations.
 
B. Amortization of purchased intangibles and in-process research and development expenses. Autodesk incurs amortization of acquisition-related purchased intangible assets and charges related to in-process research and development, primarily in connection with its acquisition of certain businesses and technologies. The amortization of purchased intangibles from business combinations varies depending on the level of acquisition activity and management finds it useful to exclude these variable charges to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods.
 
C. Reimbursement to employees for tax issues arising from the voluntary stock option review. This expense consists of payments made to our employees relating to tax payments they may incur as a result of our voluntary stock option review. Autodesk excludes these payments from our non-GAAP measures primarily because they are non-recurring items and management finds it useful to exclude these charges to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods.
 
D. Asset impairments. This is a non-cash charge to write-down goodwill and intangible assets to fair value when there was an indication that the asset was impaired. As explained above, management finds it useful to exclude certain non-cash charges to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods.
 
E. Investment impairments. This is a non-cash charge to write-down an investment to fair value when there was an indication that the investment was impaired. As explained above, management finds it useful to exclude certain non-cash charges to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods.
 
 
 
 
 
F. Restructuring charges. These expenses are associated with realigning our business strategies based on current economic conditions. In connection with these restructuring actions, we recognize costs related to termination benefits for former employees whose positions were eliminated, and the closure of facilities and cancelation of certain contracts. We exclude these charges because these expenses are not reflective of ongoing operating results in the current period.
 
G.  Income tax effects. The income tax effects that are excluded from the non-GAAP measures relate to the tax impact on the difference between GAAP and non-GAAP costs and expenses, primarily due to differences in the timing of when income tax benefits are recognized for stock compensation and purchased intangibles for GAAP and non-GAAP measures.
 
There are limitations in using non-GAAP financial measures because the non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. In addition, the non-GAAP financial measures are limited in value because they exclude certain items that may have a material impact upon our reported financial results. Management compensates for these limitations by analyzing current and future results on a GAAP basis as well as a non-GAAP basis and also by providing GAAP measures in our earnings release. The presentation of non-GAAP financial information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The non-GAAP financial measures are meant to supplement, and be viewed in conjunction with, GAAP financial measures. Investors should review the information regarding non-GAAP financial measures provided in our press release.
 
Item 2.06.  Material Impairments.
 
On February 25, 2009, Autodesk concluded that it will be required to record an impairment charge to reduce the carrying value of its goodwill and intangible assets, primarily in its Media and Entertainment segment, largely as a result of a sustained decline in its market capitalization and a decline in its forecasted future cash flows from its Media and Entertainment segment. Autodesk expects to record a material non-cash charge in the fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2009 of $129 million, consisting of $128 million of goodwill and $1 million of intangible assets.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)  Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date:  February 26, 2009
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
SAN RAFAEL, Calif., Feb. 26 /PRNewswire-FirstCall/ -- (Nasdaq: ADSK) today reported revenue of $490 million for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, a decrease of 18 percent over the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008.  GAAP diluted loss per share in the fourth quarter was $0.47, compared to earnings of $0.40 per diluted share in the fourth quarter last year.  Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share in the fourth quarter were $0.31, compared to $0.52 per diluted share in the fourth quarter last year.  Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share exclude a pre-tax impairment charge of $0.56 related primarily to a reduction in the carrying of goodwill in the companys Media and Entertainment business segment, $0.18 for restructuring charges, $0.08 related to stock-based compensation expense, $0.11 for the amortization of acquisition related intangibles and in-process research and development, and the offsetting tax impact of $0.15 related to these items.
Autodesk, Inc.
For fiscal 2009, revenue was a record $2.315 billion, an increase of 7 percent compared to fiscal 2008.  Fiscal 2009 net income was $184 million, or $0.80 per diluted share, on a GAAP basis and $448 million, or $1.95 per diluted share, on a non-GAAP basis.  A reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP results is provided at the end of this press release.
We have much to be proud of in fiscal 2009, including achieving record annual revenue results, expanding our market presence into new territories, and adding several new and exciting technologies to our portfolio of world-class products, said , Autodesk president and CEO.  While the global economic conditions in the first and second half of fiscal 2009 were very divergent, we are taking actions to reduce our cost structure to better fit the realities of todays economic conditions.  Our strong market position and best-in-class products give us confidence that Autodesk will emerge from this downturn better positioned and more operationally efficient.
Carl Bass
Operational Overview
Combined revenue from Autodesk's model-based 3D design solutions decreased 1 percent over the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 to $144 million and comprised 29 percent of total revenue for the quarter.  Autodesk shipped approximately 30,000 new commercial seats of its model-based 3D design products including approximately 6,100 seats of 3D manufacturing products, and 24,000 seats of its 3D Architecture Engineering and Construction products.
EMEA revenue was $219 million, a decrease of 16 percent as reported over the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, and a decrease of 8 percent on a constant currency basis.  Revenue in Asia Pacific was $99 million, a decrease of 25 percent as reported year-over-year, and a 28 percent decrease on a constant currency basis.  Revenue in the Americas decreased 17 percent to $172 million compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008.  Revenue from emerging economies decreased 31 percent, compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 to $80 million and represented 16 percent of total revenue.
 
 
Business Outlook
The following statements are forward-looking statements which are based on current expectations and which involve risks and uncertainties some of which are set forth below.  Given the uncertainty of the current markets, Autodesk is only providing guidance for its fiscal first quarter of 2010 at this time.
First Quarter Fiscal 2010
Net revenue for the first quarter of fiscal 2010 is expected to be in the range of $400 million and $440 million.  GAAP loss per diluted share is expected to be in the range of $0.20 and $0.08.  Non-GAAP earnings per diluted share are expected to be in the range of $0.00 and $0.12 and excludes $0.07 related to restructuring charges, $0.08 related to stock-based compensation expense and $0.05 for the amortization of acquisition related intangibles. The GAAP EPS range assumes a tax rate of 31% and the non-GAAP EPS range assumes a tax rate of 27%.
 
In addition, operating cash flow for the first quarter is expected to be negative as a result of lower revenues combined with cash outlays in the quarter for payments of the annual employee incentive plan and payments relating to the restructuring plan.
 
Safe Harbor Statement
This press release contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including statements in the paragraphs under Business Outlook above, statements regarding anticipated market trends and other statements regarding our expected investments, strategies, performance and results.  Other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include the following:  general market and business conditions, our performance in particular geographies, including emerging economies, the financial and business condition of our reseller and distribution channels, fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates, failure to achieve planned cost reductions and productivity increases, difficulties encountered in integrating new or acquired businesses and technologies, the inability to identify and realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions, unexpected fluctuations in our tax rate, the timing and degree of expected investments in growth opportunities, slowing momentum in maintenance revenues, failure to achieve sufficient sell-through in our channels for new or existing products, pricing pressure, failure to achieve continued migration from 2D products to 3D products, changes in the timing of product releases and retirements, failure of key new applications to achieve anticipated levels of customer acceptance,  failure to achieve continued success in technology advancements, interruptions or terminations in the business of Autodesk consultants, and unanticipated impact of accounting for technology acquisitions.
Further information on potential factors that could affect the financial results of Autodesk are included in Autodesk reports on Form 10-K for the year ended January 31, 2008 and our Forms 10-Q for the quarters ended April 30, 2008, July 31, 2008, and October 31, 2008, which are on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Autodesk does not assume any obligation to update the forward-looking statements provided to reflect events that occur or circumstances that exist after the date on which they were made.
Earnings Conference Call and Webcast
Autodesk will host its fourth quarter conference call today at 5:00 p.m. EST.  The live broadcast can be accessed at http://.  A replay of the broadcast will be available at 7:00 pm EST at http://.  This replay will be maintained on our website for at least twelve months. 
www.autodesk.com/investors
www.autodesk.com/investors
 
 
About Autodesk
is a world leader in 2D and for the manufacturing, construction, and media and entertainment markets. Since its introduction of AutoCAD software in 1982, Autodesk has developed the broadest portfolio of state-of-the-art Digital Prototyping solutions to help customers experience their ideas before they are built. Fortune 1000 companies rely on Autodesk for the tools to visualize, simulate and analyze real-world performance early in the design process to save time and money, enhance quality and foster innovation.  For additional information about Autodesk, visit .
Autodesk, Inc.
3D design software
www.autodesk.com
Autodesk and AutoCAD, are registered trademarks or trademarks of Autodesk, Inc., and/or its subsidiaries and/or affiliates in the USA and/or other countries. All other brand names, product names, or trademarks belong to their respective holders. Autodesk reserves the right to alter product offerings and specifications at any time without notice, and is not responsible for typographical or graphical errors that may appear in this document.
 2009 Autodesk, Inc. All rights reserved.
 
 
 
Autodesk, Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Operations
(In millions, except per share data)
 
 
 
 
Autodesk, Inc.
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets
(In millions)
 
 
 
 
 
Autodesk, Inc.
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
(In millions)
 
 
 
 
Autodesk, Inc.
Reconciliation of GAAP financial measures to non-GAAP financial measures
(In millions, except per share data)
 
To supplement our consolidated financial statements presented on a GAAP basis, Autodesk provides investors with certain non-GAAP measures including non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per share, non-GAAP cost of license and other revenue, non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP income from operations, non-GAAP interest and other income, net and non-GAAP provision for income taxes.  These non-GAAP financial measures are adjusted to exclude certain costs, expenses, gains and losses, including stock-based compensation expense, employee tax reimbursements related to our stock option review,
in-process research and development expenses, restructuring expenses, amortization of purchased intangibles, asset impairment and related income tax expenses.  See our reconciliation of GAAP financial measures to non-GAAP financial measures herein.  We believe these exclusions are appropriate to enhance an overall understanding of our past financial performance and also our prospects for the future, as well as to facilitate comparisons with our historical operating results.  These adjustments to our GAAP results are made with the intent of providing both management and investors a more complete understanding of Autodesk's underlying operational results and trends and our marketplace performance.  For example, the non-GAAP results are an indication of our baseline performance before gains, losses or other charges that are considered by management to be outside our core operating results.  In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures are
among the primary indicators management uses as a basis for our planning and forecasting of future periods.
There are limitations in using non-GAAP financial measures because the non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies.  The non-GAAP financial measures are limited in value because they exclude certain items that may have a material impact upon our reported financial results.  The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.  Investors should review the reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures as provided in the tables accompanying this press release.
The following table shows Autodesk's non-GAAP results reconciled to GAAP results included in this release.
 
 
 
 
(1) Totals may not agree with the sum of the components due to rounding.
(2) To supplement our consolidated financial statements presented on a GAAP basis, Autodesk provides investors with certain non-GAAP measures including non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per share, non-GAAP cost of license and other revenue, non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP income from operations, non-GAAP interest and other income, net and non-GAAP provision for income taxes.  These non-GAAP financial measures are adjusted to exclude certain costs, expenses, gains and losses, including stock-based compensation expense, employee tax reimbursements related to our stock option review, in-process research and development expenses, restructuring expenses, amortization of purchased intangibles, investment impairment and related income tax expenses.  See our reconciliation of GAAP financial measures to non-GAAP financial measures herein.  We believe these exclusions are appropriate to enhance an overall understanding of our past financial performance and also our prospects for the future, as well as to facilitate comparisons with our historical operating results.  These adjustments to our GAAP results are made with the intent of providing both management and investors a more complete understanding of Autodesk's underlying operational results and trends and our marketplace performance.  For example, the non-GAAP results are an indication of our baseline performance before gains, losses or other charges that are considered by management to be outside our core operating results.  In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures are among the primary indicators management uses as a basis for our planning and forecasting of future periods.
There are limitations in using non-GAAP financial measures because the non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies.  The non-GAAP financial measures are limited in value because they exclude certain items that may have a material impact upon our reported financial results.  The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.  Investors should review the reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures as provided in the tables accompanying this press release.
 
CONTACT:  Investors, David Gennarelli, +1-415-507-6033, david.gennarelli@autodesk.com, or Press, Pam Pollace, +1-415-547-2441, pam.pollace@autodesk.com, or Colleen Rubart, +1-415-547-2368, , all of Autodesk
colleen.rubart@autodesk.com


