FILE:ADSK/ADSK-8K-20090827164542.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Amendment No. 2 to Form 8-K (the Amendment) is being filed to amend Item 9.01 of the Current Report on Form 8-K filed by Autodesk, Inc. (the Company) on August 13, 2009, as amended on August 17, 2009 (the Original Filing). This amendment corrects the Deferred Maintenance Revenue Balance line item in the QTR 1 column of the Fiscal Year 2010 Other Supplemental Financial Information sheets from $458 million to $469 million (note that overall deferred revenue balance of $534 million for the quarter ended April 30, 2009 is correct and did not change in the Amendment). In all other respects, the information contained in the Original Filing, as amended, remains unchanged and is being provided in the Amendment for convenience only.
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On August 13, 2009, Autodesk, Inc. (Autodesk or the Company) issued a press release and prepared remarks reporting financial results for the second quarter ended July 31, 2009.  The press release and prepared remarks are furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference.
 
These exhibits shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
To supplement Autodesks consolidated financial statements presented on a GAAP basis, the press release and prepared remarks furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, respectively, provide investors with certain non-GAAP measures, including but not limited to historical non-GAAP net earnings and historical and future non-GAAP net earnings per diluted share. For our internal budgeting and resource allocation process, Autodesks management uses these non-GAAP measures that do not include: (a) the stock-based compensation impact of SFAS 123R, (b) amortization of purchased intangibles and purchases of technology, including in-process research and development, (c) goodwill impairment, (d) establishment of a valuation allowance on certain net deferred tax assets, (e) restructuring charges and (f) the income tax effects on the difference between GAAP and non-GAAP costs and expenses.  Autodesks management uses these non-GAAP measures in making operating decisions because we believe the measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding Autodesks earning potential. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures facilitate comparisons to our and our competitors historical results and operating guidance.
 
As described above, Autodesk excludes the following items from its non-GAAP measures:
 
A. These expenses consist of expenses for employee stock-based compensation under SFAS 123R. Autodesk excludes stock-based compensation expenses from our non-GAAP measures primarily because they are non-cash expenses and management finds it useful to exclude certain non-cash charges to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods.
Stock compensation impact of SFAS 123R.
 
B.
Amortization of purchased intangibles and in-process research and development expenses.
Autodesk incurs amortization of acquisition-related purchased intangible assets
and charges related to in-process research and development, primarily in connection with its acquisition of certain businesses and technologies. The amortization of purchased intangibles varies depending on the level of acquisition activity, and management finds it useful to exclude these variable charges to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods.
 
C. This is a non-cash charge to write-down goodwill to fair value when there was an indication that the asset was impaired. As explained above, management finds it useful to exclude certain non-cash charges to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods.
Goodwill impairment.
 
D. This is a non-cash charge to record a valuation allowance on certain deferred tax assets. As explained above, management finds it useful to exclude certain non-cash charges to assess the appropriate level of various expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods.
Establishment of a valuation allowance on certain net deferred tax assets.
 
E. These expenses are associated with realigning our business strategies based on current economic conditions. In connection with these restructuring actions, we recognize costs related to termination benefits for former employees whose positions were eliminated, and the closure of facilities and cancelation of certain contracts. We exclude these charges because these expenses are not reflective of ongoing operating results in the current period.
Restructuring charges.
 
F. The income tax effects that are excluded from the non-GAAP measures relate to the tax impact on the difference between GAAP and non-GAAP costs and expenses, primarily due to differences in the timing of when income tax benefits are recognized for stock compensation and purchased intangibles for GAAP and non-GAAP measures.
Income tax effects.
 
There are limitations in using non-GAAP financial measures because the non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. In addition, the non-GAAP financial measures are limited in value because they exclude certain items that may have a material impact upon our reported financial results. Management compensates for these limitations by analyzing current and future results on a GAAP basis as well as a non-GAAP basis and also by providing GAAP measures in our earnings release and prepared remarks. The presentation of non-GAAP financial information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The non-GAAP financial measures are meant to supplement, and be viewed in conjunction with, GAAP financial measures. Investors should review the information regarding non-GAAP financial measures provided in our press release and prepared remarks.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)  Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date:  August 27, 2009
 
 
 
 
 
 

                      
 
AUTODESK REPORTS SECOND QUARTER FISCAL 2010 FINANCIAL RESULTS
-- (NASDAQ: ADSK) today reported financial results for the second quarter of fiscal 2010.
SAN RAFAEL, Calif., August 13, 2009
Autodesk, Inc.
Revenue results for the quarter were in-line with our expectations and continue to reflect a challenging global business environment," said , Autodesk president and CEO.  We are pleased with the progress weve made to increase our efficiency and reduce our overall cost structure and as a result, we increased our profitability on a sequential basis.
Carl Bass
 
Operational Overview
By geography, revenue in the Americas decreased 21 percent compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2009, to $159 million.  Americas revenue declined two percent sequentially.  EMEA revenue was $157 million, a decrease of 41 percent over the second quarter of fiscal 2009 as reported, and 32 percent on a constant currency basis. EMEA revenue declined six percent sequentially as reported.  Revenue in Asia Pacific was $99 million, a decrease of 34 percent over the second quarter of fiscal 2009 as reported and 35 percent on a constant currency basis.  Revenue from Asia Pacific increased three percent sequentially as reported.  Revenue from emerging economies was $63 million, a decrease of 45 percent compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2009, and a six percent sequential increase as reported.  Revenue from emerging economies represented 15 percent of total revenue.
Combined revenue from Autodesk's model-based 3D design solutions was $124 million, a decrease of 25 percent compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2009 and a two percent sequential increase.  Revenue from 2D horizontal and vertical products was $194 million, a decrease of 38 percent compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2009 and six percent sequentially. Combined revenue from AutoCAD and AutoCAD LT declined 39 percent compared to the second quarter last year and seven percent sequentially.
Autodesk posted quarterly sequential revenue growth in several areas including emerging economies, revenue from our manufacturing business segment, revenue in Asia Pacific, revenue from our model-based 3D design solutions and revenue from 3D animation software.  Autodesk has more than $1 billion in cash and investments and no debt.
The current business environment and general business visibility remain challenging, continued Bass.  However, we are encouraged by sequential revenue growth we posted in several areas and are beginning to see some positive indicators in our business.
 
Business Outlook
The following statements are forward-looking statements that are based on current expectations and which involve risks and uncertainties some of which are set forth below.
Third Quarter Fiscal 2010
Net revenue for the third quarter of fiscal 2010 is expected to be in the range of $400 million and $420 million. GAAP earnings per diluted share are expected to be in the range of $0.04 and $0.09. Non-GAAP earnings per diluted share are expected to be in the range of $0.18 and $0.23 and exclude $0.07 related to stock-based compensation expense, $0.05 for the amortization of acquisition related intangibles, and restructuring related charges of $0.02.
Update on Spend Reduction Initiatives
Based on the progress the company made in the first half of fiscal 2010 with its expense reduction initiatives, Autodesk now anticipates nearly $300 million in pre-tax cost savings in fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009.
Earnings Conference Call and Webcast
Autodesk will host its second quarter conference call today at 5:00 p.m. EDT. The live broadcast can be accessed at http://www.autodesk.com/investors. Supplemental financial information and prepared remarks for the conference call will be posted to the investor relations section of our website simultaneously with this press release.
 
2
 
The prepared remarks will not be read on the conference call.  The conference call will include only brief remarks followed by questions and answers.
NOTE:
 
 
A replay of the broadcast will be available at 7:00 pm EDT at http://www.autodesk.com/investors. This replay will be maintained on our website for at least twelve months.
 
Safe Harbor Statement
This press release contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including statements in the paragraphs under Business Outlook above, statements regarding anticipated market and economic trends, cost savings, timing of certain charges and other statements regarding our expected strategies, market position, performance and results.  Other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include the following:  general market, economic and business conditions, our performance in particular geographies, including emerging economies, the financial and business condition of our reseller and distribution channels, fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates, failure to achieve planned cost reductions and productivity increases, slowing momentum in maintenance revenues, failure to achieve sufficient sell-through in our channels for new or existing products, pricing pressure, failure to achieve continued migration from 2D products to 3D products, difficulties encountered in integrating new or acquired businesses and technologies, the inability to identify and realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions, unexpected fluctuations in our tax rate, the timing and degree of expected investments in growth opportunities, changes in the timing of product releases and retirements, failure of key new applications to achieve anticipated levels of customer acceptance,  failure to achieve continued success in technology advancements, interruptions or terminations in the business of Autodesk consultants, and any unanticipated impact of accounting for acquisitions.
 
 
Further information on potential factors that could affect the financial results of Autodesk are included in Autodesks reports on Form 10-K for the year ended January 31, 2009 and Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 30, 2009, which are on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Autodesk does not assume any obligation to update the forward-looking statements provided to reflect events that occur or circumstances that exist after the date on which they were made.
 
About Autodesk
is a world leader in 2D and for the manufacturing, construction, and media and entertainment markets. Since its introduction of AutoCAD software in 1982, Autodesk has developed the broadest portfolio of state-of-the-art Digital Prototyping solutions to help customers experience their ideas before they are built. Fortune 1000 companies rely on Autodesk for the tools to visualize, simulate and analyze real-world performance early in the design process to save time and money, enhance quality and foster innovation.  For additional information about Autodesk, visit .
Autodesk, Inc.
3D design software
www.autodesk.com
Autodesk,AutoCAD and AutoCAD LT, are registered trademarks or trademarks of Autodesk, Inc., and/or its subsidiaries and/or affiliates in the USA and/or other countries. All other brand names, product names, or trademarks belong to their respective holders. Autodesk reserves the right to alter product offerings and specifications at any time without notice, and is not responsible for typographical or graphical errors that may appear in this document.
 
 2009 Autodesk, Inc. All rights reserved.
 
 
 
3
Autodesk, Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Operations
(In millions, except per share data)
 
 
4
 
Autodesk, Inc.
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets
(In millions)
 
 
5
 
Autodesk, Inc.
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
(In millions)
 
 
6
 
Autodesk, Inc.
Reconciliation of GAAP financial measures to non-GAAP financial measures
(In millions, except per share data)
 
To supplement our consolidated financial statements presented on a GAAP basis, Autodesk provides investors with certain non-GAAP measures including non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per share, non-GAAP cost of license and other revenue, non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP income from operations, non-GAAP interest and other income, net and non-GAAP provision for income taxes.  These non-GAAP financial measures are adjusted to exclude certain costs, expenses, gains and losses, including stock-based compensation expense,  amortization of purchased intangibles, in-process research and development expenses,
restructuring charges, goodwill impairment, establishment of a valuation allowance on certain deferred tax assets and related income tax expenses.  See our reconciliation of GAAP financial measures to non-GAAP financial measures herein.  We believe these exclusions are appropriate to enhance an overall understanding of our past financial performance and also our prospects for the future, as well as to facilitate comparisons with our historical operating results.  These adjustments to our GAAP results are made with the intent of providing both management and investors a more complete understanding of Autodesk's underlying operational results and trends and our marketplace performance.  For example, the non-GAAP results are an indication of our baseline performance before gains, losses or other charges that are considered by management to be outside our core operating results.  In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures are
among the primary indicators management uses as a basis for our planning and forecasting of future periods.
There are limitations in using non-GAAP financial measures because the non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies.  The non-GAAP financial measures are limited in value because they exclude certain items that may have a material impact upon our reported financial results.  The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.  Investors should review the reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures as provided in the tables accompanying this press release.
 
The following table shows Autodesk's non-GAAP results reconciled to GAAP results included in this release.
 
 
7
 
 
8
 
  
 
 
 
9
 
(1) Totals may not agree with the sum of the components due to rounding.
(2) To supplement our consolidated financial statements presented on a GAAP basis, Autodesk provides investors with certain non-GAAP measures including non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per share, non-GAAP cost of license and other revenue, non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP income from operations, non-GAAP interest and other income, net and non-GAAP provision for income taxes.  These non-GAAP financial measures are adjusted to exclude certain costs, expenses, gains and losses, including stock-based compensation expense, amortization of purchased intangibles, goodwill impairment, restructuring charges, establishment of a valuation allowance on certain deferred tax assets and related income tax expenses.  See our reconciliation of GAAP financial measures to non-GAAP financial measures herein.  We believe these exclusions are appropriate to enhance an overall understanding of our past financial performance and also our prospects for the future, as well as to facilitate comparisons with our historical operating results.  These adjustments to our GAAP results are made with the intent of providing both management and investors a more complete understanding of Autodesk's underlying operational results and trends and our marketplace performance.  For example, the non-GAAP results are an indication of our baseline performance before gains, losses or other charges that are considered by management to be outside our core operating results.  In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures are among the primary indicators management uses as a basis for our planning and forecasting of future periods.
There are limitations in using non-GAAP financial measures because the non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies.  The non-GAAP financial measures are limited in value because they exclude certain items that may have a material impact upon our reported financial results.  The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.  Investors should review the reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures as provided in the tables accompanying this press release.
 
 
10

 
 
 
Autodesk is posting a copy of these prepared remarks in combination with its press release to its investor website.  These prepared remarks are offered to provide shareholders and analysts with additional time and detail for analyzing our results in advance of our quarterly conference call. As previously scheduled, the conference call will begin today, August 13, 2009 at 2:00 pm PT (5:00 pm ET) and will include only brief comments followed by questions and answers. These prepared remarks will not be read on the call.
 
To access the live broadcast of the question and answer session, please visit the Investor Relations section of Autodesks Website at ..  A complete reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP results is provided in the tables following these prepared remarks.
www.autodesk.com/investor
 
2Q Fiscal 2010 Overview
We are pleased that we delivered revenue results as anticipated and encouraged that the sequential decline in revenue is smaller than our previous two quarters.  We also made strong progress reducing expenses leading to improved sequential profitability.
 
 
Global economic conditions in Autodesks core markets were largely a continuation of what we experienced in the first quarter of fiscal 2010.  However, as we exited the second quarter our business was less volatile relative to what we experienced in late fiscal 2009 and earlier this fiscal year. While still challenging, Autodesk global demand is showing signs of stabilizing.
 
Despite the challenging conditions, there were several encouraging data points in our results including the continued success we are achieving in our government business, which grew both sequentially and year-over-year.  We remain optimistic about our ability to further penetrate this market as we believe that only a small portion of worldwide stimulus dollars allocated for infrastructure projects have been spent to date.  As we move forward in this area, we are working with our government partners to raise the profile of Autodesk as a mission critical provider.
 
Sales of our model-based 3D design solutions posted small sequential growth in the second quarter led by sales of our Inventor, Moldflow, and Revit products.  We believe that customers will continue to migrate to our model-based 3D design solutions as they look to design innovation as a means to create competitive advantage through product differentiation.
Over the prior two quarters, revenue from emerging economies was impacted more significantly than revenue from developed countries.  In a positive development, revenue from emerging economies increased 6 percent sequentially, led by low double-digit sequential growth in the emerging economies of Asia Pacific.  Going forward, we believe revenue from emerging economies will continue to be more volatile than revenue from developed economies.
Turning to expenses, we made good progress on our expense reduction plan.  GAAP operating expenses declined 18 percent, or $79 million, compared to the second quarter last year and 8 percent sequentially.  Non-GAAP operating expenses declined by approximately $87 million or 22 percent, compared to the second quarter last year and 6 percent sequentially.
Because of the expense reductions we have already realized in the first half of fiscal 2010, we now believe we will surpass our initial plan of reducing our pre-tax spend by $250 million in fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009.  Based on what Autodesk expects to spend in the fiscal third quarter, we now anticipate we will be able to deliver nearly $300 million in pre-tax cost savings in fiscal 2010, as compared to fiscal 2009.
 
2
 
Autodesk is a global business with approximately 69% of our business generated outside the U.S.  Overall, the current global business environment and our business visibility remain challenging while stabilizing somewhat.  Recent reports on broader economic indicators have been mixed.  It remains unclear whether a sustainable global recovery is underway, however, we are beginning to see some positive indicators in our business.
With a deep and diversified product portfolio, we are confident that we are well positioned to participate in the global economys eventual recovery.  With over $1 billion in cash and investments and no debt, Autodesks financial condition remains solid.
Revenue Analysis
 
 
Total net revenue for the second quarter was $415 million, a decrease of 33 percent compared to the second quarter last year and 29 percent at constant currency.  Total net revenue decreased 3 percent sequentially.
 
License and other revenue was $231 million, a decrease of 48 percent compared to the second quarter last year due primarily to a 46 percent year-over-year decline in new seat license revenue.  License and other revenue declined 5 percent sequentially.
 
Maintenance revenue was $184 million, an increase of 3 percent compared to the second quarter of last year and 1 percent sequentially.  Maintenance billings declined 11 percent year-over-year and 2 percent sequentially.  The year-over-year decline in billings is less than we experienced in the first quarter of fiscal 2010.  Maintenance billings continue to decline due to a decrease in renewal rates as well as fewer new seats sold.  Renewal rates have been impacted as customers have reduced their work force resulting in fewer seats to renew.
 
3
 
Without a meaningful near-term increase in maintenance billings, the year-over-year decline in maintenance billings will create downward pressure on maintenance revenue over the next four quarters as most maintenance agreements are 12 month contracts, which are recognized ratably over four quarters.
 
Revenue by Geography
 
 
Revenue in the Americas declined 21 percent compared to the second quarter last year and 2 percent sequentially.  Revenue in the U.S. posted a small sequential decline while both Canada and Brazil grew sequentially.
 
EMEA revenue decreased 41 percent year-over-year as reported and 32 percent at constant currency.  EMEA revenue declined 6% sequentially.
 
Compared to the second quarter of last year, revenue from Asia Pacific decreased 34 percent as reported and 35 percent at constant currency.  Revenue from Asia Pacific increased 3 percent sequentially.  Sequential growth was seen in both developed and emerging economies with strong sequential growth posted in South Korea, Australia, and China.
Similar to last quarter, the greatest geographic year-over-year revenue decline was in emerging economies, which declined 45 percent compared to the second quarter of last year.  However, we are encouraged that revenue fr
om emerging economies increased 6 percent sequentially with the strongest sequential growth coming from our Asia Pacific region.
 
4
Revenue by Product Type
 
Revenue from our model-based 3D design solutions decreased 25 percent compared to second quarter last year, to $124 million.  Revenue from model-based 3D design solutions increased 2 percent sequentially driven by growth of Inventor, Moldflow, and Revit products.
Our 2D and 2D horizontal products continue to be impacted more severely in this recession relative to our model-based 3D design solutions.  Combined revenue from 2D horizontal and 2D vertical products decreased 38 percent compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2009 and 6 percent sequentially, to $194 million.
Revenue by Business Segment
 
 
Revenue from Platform Solutions decreased 39 percent compared to the second quarter last year and 7 percent sequentially to $145 million due to declines in sales of AutoCAD and AutoCAD LT products.  Combined revenue from these products declined 39 percent as compared to the second quarter last year and 7 percent sequentially.
 
Revenue from our AEC segment decreased 29 percent compared to the second quarter last year and 3 percent sequentially to $125 million.  Revenue from our Revit family of products decreased 30 percent compared to the second quarter last year and increased 2 percent sequentially.
 
5
 
Revenue from our Manufacturing segment decreased 25 percent compared to the second quarter last year and increased 4 percent sequentially to $98 million.  Revenue from our Inventor family of products decreased 30 percent compared to the second quarter last year and increased 7 percent sequentially.
 
Revenue from our Media and Entertainment segment was $47 million, a decrease of 32 percent compared to the second quarter last year and 2 percent sequentially.  Revenue from animation products including 3dsMax and Maya decreased 20 percent compared to the second quarter last year and increased 9 percent sequentially.  Revenue from Advanced Systems declined 47 percent compared to the second quarter last year and 17 percent sequentially.
 
Margins and EPS Review
 
GAAP gross margins in the second quarter were 88%.  Non-GAAP gross margins in the second quarter were 90 percent.  Historically, gross margins have trended higher in our fiscal second quarter compared to our fiscal first quarter.  Our second quarter gross margins were flat sequentially and were impacted by a combination of fixed costs that did not decrease with lower revenue, as well as non-recurring items.
 
GAAP operating margin was 1 percent.  Our non-GAAP operating margin in the second quarter decreased compared to the second quarter last year primarily due to the year-over-year drop in revenue.  Non-GAAP operating margins rose 3 percentage points on a sequential basis to 16 percent, driven by reduced operating expenses.
 
6
 
The effective tax rate for our second quarter was 22 percent for our GAAP results and 25 percent for our non-GAAP results.   
 
Earnings per diluted share for the second quarter were $0.05 GAAP and $0.24 non-GAAP.
 
A complete reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP results is provided in the tables following these prepared remarks.
 
Foreign Exchange Impact
 
 
Compared to the second quarter of last year, the impact of foreign currency exchange rates in the second quarter was $24 million unfavorable on revenue and $14 million favorable on expenses.
 
Compared to the first quarter, the foreign currency impact was $9 million favorable on revenue and $7 million unfavorable on expenses.
 
7
 
Balance Sheet Items and Cash Review
 
 
Total cash and investments at the end of the second quarter were over $1 billion.
 
Cash flow from operating activities during the second quarter was $47 million.  Cash flow from operating activities was significantly lower than the second quarter last year, but did improve sequentially primarily due to increased profitability.
 
Shippable backlog at the end of the second quarter decreased by $7 million sequentially to $16 million.
 
Deferred revenue decreased 11 percent compared to the second quarter last year and 6 percent sequentially to $502 million.  The decrease is primarily due to the reduction in maintenance billings.
 
Total backlog at the end of the second quarter, including deferred revenue and shippable backlog orders was $518 million, a decrease of $73 million compared to the second quarter last year.
 
Channel inventory at the end of the second quarter declined sequentially in weeks and in absolute dollars.  At the end of the second quarter channel inventory was approximately three weeks.
 
DSO was 49 days in the second quarter, flat sequentially and slightly higher year-over-year.
 
8
 
Business Outlook
 
Our guidance is based on our current expectations and the information we have available today, including currency exchange rates.
 
 
For the third quarter, we expect revenue to be in the range of $400 million to $420 million.  GAAP earnings per diluted share are expected to be in the range of $0.04 and $0.09.  Non-GAAP earnings per diluted share are expected to be in the range of $0.18 and $0.23, excluding $0.07 related to stock-based compensation expense, $0.05 for amortization of acquisition related intangibles, and $0.02 for restructuring related charges.
Safe Harbor Statement
These prepared remarks contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including statements in the paragraphs under Business Outlook, statements regarding anticipated market and economic trends, cost savings, timing of certain charges, revenue performance (including by geography and product), market position and other statements regarding our expected strategies, performance and results.  Other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include the following:  general market, economic and business conditions, our performance in particular geographies, including emerging economies, the financial and business condition of our reseller and distribution channels, fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates, failure to achieve planned cost reductions and productivity increases, slowing momentum in maintenance revenues, failure to achieve sufficient sell-through in our channels for new or existing products, pricing pressure, failure to achieve continued migration from 2D products to 3D products, difficulties encountered in integrating new or acquired businesses and technologies, the inability to identify and realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions, unexpected fluctuations in our tax rate, the timing and degree of expected investments in growth opportunities, changes in the timing of product releases and retirements, failure of key new applications to achieve anticipated levels of customer acceptance,  failure to achieve continued success in technology advancements, interruptions or terminations in the business of Autodesk consultants, and any unanticipated impact of accounting for acquisitions.
 
9
 
Further information on potential factors that could affect the financial results of Autodesk are included in Autodesks reports on Form 10-K for the year ended January 31, 2009 and Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 30, 2009, which are on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Autodesk does not assume any obligation to update the forward-looking statements provided to reflect events that occur or circumstances that exist after the date on which they were made.
2009 Autodesk, Inc. All rights reserved.
 
 
10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
* The second quarter of fiscal 2010 maintenance installed base includes a one-time adjustment of 581,000 educational seats for users migrated to a standard educational maintenance plan.  These users were not previously captured in our maintenance installed base.
 
11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note:
  Totals may not agree with the sum of the components due to rounding.
 
(1) To supplement our consolidated financial statements presented on a GAAP basis, Autodesk provides investors with certain non-GAAP measures including non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per share, non-GAAP cost of license and other revenue, non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP income from operations, non-GAAP interest and other income, net and non-GAAP provision for income taxes.  These non-GAAP financial measures are adjusted to exclude certain costs, expenses, gains and losses, including stock-based compensation expense, restructuring charges, amortization of purchased intangibles, goodwill impairment, establishment of a valuation allowance on certain deferred tax assets and related income tax expenses.  See our reconciliation of GAAP financial measures to non-GAAP financial measures herein.  We believe these exclusions are appropriate to enhance an overall understanding of our past
financial performance and also our prospects for the future, as well as to facilitate comparisons with our historical operating results.  These adjustments to our GAAP results are made with the intent of providing both management and investors a more complete understanding of Autodesk's underlying operational results and trends and our marketplace performance.  For example, the non-GAAP results are an indication of our baseline performance before gains, losses or other charges that are considered by management to be outside our core operating results.  In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures are among the primary indicators management uses as a basis for our planning and forecasting of future periods.
 
There are limitations in using non-GAAP financial measures because the non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies.  The non-GAAP financial measures are limited in value because they exclude certain items that may have a material impact upon our reported financial results.  The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.  Investors should review the reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures as provided in the tables accompanying Autodesk's press release.
 
 
12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note:
  Totals may not agree with the sum of the components due to rounding.
 
(1) To supplement our consolidated financial statements presented on a GAAP basis, Autodesk provides investors with certain non-GAAP measures including non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per share, non-GAAP cost of license and other revenue, non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP income from operations, non-GAAP interest and other income, net and non-GAAP provision for income taxes.  These non-GAAP financial measures are adjusted to exclude certain costs, expenses, gains and losses, including stock-based compensation expense, employee tax reimbursements related to our stock option review, in-process research and development expenses, restructuring charges, amortization of purchased intangibles, asset impairment and related income tax expenses.  See our reconciliation of GAAP financial measures to non-GAAP financial measures herein.  We believe these exclusions
are appropriate to enhance an overall understanding of our past financial performance and also our prospects for the future, as well as to facilitate comparisons with our historical operating results.  These adjustments to our GAAP results are made with the intent of providing both management and investors a more complete understanding of Autodesk's underlying operational results and trends and our marketplace performance.  For example, the non-GAAP results are an indication of our baseline performance before gains, losses or other charges that are considered by management to be outside our core operating results.  In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures are among the primary indicators management uses as a basis for our planning and forecasting of future periods.
 
There are limitations in using non-GAAP financial measures because the non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies.  The non-GAAP financial measures are limited in value because they exclude certain items that may have a material impact upon our reported financial results.  The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.  Investors should review the reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures as provided in the tables accompanying Autodesk's press release.
 
 
14
 
 
 


