FILE:ADSK/ADSK-8K-20100519161634.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
____________________
 
 
 
 
 
____________________
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
[  ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[  ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On May 19, 2010, Autodesk, Inc. (Autodesk or the Company) issued a press release and prepared remarks reporting financial results for the first quarter ended April 30, 2010.  The press release and prepared remarks are furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference.
 
These exhibits shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
To supplement Autodesks consolidated financial statements presented on a GAAP basis, the press release and prepared remarks furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, respectively, provide investors with certain non-GAAP measures, including but not limited to historical non-GAAP net earnings and historical and future non-GAAP net earnings per diluted share. For our internal budgeting and resource allocation process, Autodesks management uses non-GAAP measures that do not include: (a) stock-based compensation expenses, (b) amortization of purchased intangibles and purchases of technology, (c) goodwill impairment, (d) restructuring charges, (e) establishment of a valuation allowance on certain net deferred tax assets, and (f) the income tax effects on the difference between GAA P and non-GAAP costs and expenses.  Autodesks management uses non-GAAP measures in making operating decisions because we believe the measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding Autodesks earning potential. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures facilitate comparisons to our and our competitors historical results and operating guidance.
 
As described above, Autodesk excludes the following items from its non-GAAP measures:
 
A. Autodesk excludes stock-based compensation expenses from its non-GAAP measures primarily because they are non-cash expenses and management finds it useful to exclude certain non-cash charges to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods.
Stock-based compensation expenses.
 
B. Autodesk incurs amortization of acquisition-related purchased intangible assets, primarily in connection with its acquisition of certain businesses and technologies. The amortization of purchased intangibles varies depending on the level of acquisition activity, and management finds it useful to exclude these variable charges to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods.
Amortization of purchased intangibles and purchases of technology.
 
C. This is a non-cash charge to write-down goodwill to fair value when there was an indication that the asset was impaired. As explained above, management finds it useful to exclude certain non-cash charges to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods.
Goodwill impairment.
 
D. These expenses are associated with realigning our business strategies based on current economic conditions. In connection with these restructuring actions, we recognize costs related to termination benefits for former employees whose positions were eliminated, and the closure of facilities and cancelation of certain contracts. We exclude these charges because these expenses are not reflective of ongoing operating results in the current period.
Restructuring charges.
 
E. This is a non-cash charge to record a valuation allowance on certain deferred tax assets. As explained above, management finds it useful to exclude certain non-cash charges to assess the appropriate level of various expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods.
Establishment of a valuation allowance on certain net deferred tax assets.
 
 
 
F. The income tax effects that are excluded from the non-GAAP measures relate to the tax impact on the difference between GAAP and non-GAAP costs and expenses, primarily due to differences in the timing of when income tax benefits are recognized for stock compensation and purchased intangibles for GAAP and non-GAAP measures.
Income tax effects on the difference between GAAP and non-GAAP costs and expenses.
 
There are limitations in using non-GAAP financial measures because the non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. In addition, the non-GAAP financial measures are limited in value because they exclude certain items that may have a material impact upon our reported financial results. Management compensates for these limitations by analyzing current and future results on a GAAP basis as well as a non-GAAP basis and also by providing GAAP measures in our earnings release and prepared remarks. The presentation of non-GAAP financial information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted account ing principles in the United States. The non-GAAP financial measures are meant to supplement, and be viewed in conjunction with, GAAP financial measures. Investors should review the information regarding non-GAAP financial measures provided in our press release and prepared remarks.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)  Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date:  May 19, 2010
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
--
SAN RAFAEL, Calif., May 19, 2010
(NASDAQ: ADSK) today reported financial results for the first quarter of fiscal 2011.
Autodesk, Inc.
 
 
"Our strong first quarter results reflect the continued improvement in the demand environment for our products and robust revenue growth in our international geographies, said , Autodesk president and CEO.  Over the past several quarters we have been positioning the company to participate in the eventual global recovery.  Our results reflect the work weve done to drive revenue, control costs and improve our profitability.  We continue to be optimistic about delivering margin expansion this year, tempered with appropriate concern regarding the uncertainty of the European economy.
Carl Bass
 
Autodesk experienced strong year-over-year growth in several key areas including maintenance billings, revenue from commercial new licenses, and cash flow from operations.  Growth in total revenue, coupled with a continued focus on cost containment and improving operational efficiencies led to significant year-over-year improvement to Autodesks operating margin, cash flow from operations, and profitability.
 
 
 
 
 
First quarter results included a one-time benefit of approximately $15 million in upgrade revenue related to a promotion that was run in advance of an increase in upgrade pricing.
 
Operational Overview
All constant currency 
calculations remove the impact of foreign currency fluctuations and
the impact from our hedging program.
 
EMEA revenue increased 6 percent sequentially as reported and 9 percent on a constant currency basis to $199 million.  EMEA revenue increased 19 percent compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2010 as reported and 10 percent on a constant currency basis.
Revenue in the Americas decreased 4 percent sequentially to $161 million and decreased 1 percent compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2010.
Revenue in Asia Pacific was $115 million, an increase of 14 percent sequentially as reported and 15 percent on a constant currency basis.  Revenue in Asia Pacific increased 21 percent compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2010 as reported and increased 15 percent on a constant currency basis.
 
Revenue from emerging economies was $68 million, a decrease of 7 percent sequentially as reported and 4 percent on a constant currency basis.  Revenue from emerging economies increased 16 percent compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2010 as reported and 13 percent on a constant currency basis.  Revenue from emerging economies represented 14 percent of total revenue in the first quarter.
 
Combined revenue from Autodesk's model-based design solutions (previously known as 3D model-based design) was $138 million, an increase of 3 percent sequentially and 13 percent compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2010.  Combined revenue from horizontal design products (previously known as 2D horizontal) and vertical design products (previously known as 2D vertical) was $240 million, a 12 percent increase sequentially and 17 percent compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2010.  Combined revenue from our AutoCAD and AutoCAD LT products increased 19 percent sequentially and 20 percent compared to the fiscal first quarter last year.
 
Operating margins improved significantly in the first quarter compared to the first quarter last year.  The 16 percentage point improvement in GAAP operating margin in the first quarter was driven primarily by the lack of impairment charges and lower restructuring costs compared to the first quarter last year.  The 7 percentage point improvement in non-GAAP operating margin was driven primarily by higher revenue.
 
Cash flow from operations was $139 million in the fiscal first quarter bringing the cash and investments balance to over $1.2 billion, or cash and investments of approximately $5.40 per share of common stock outstanding.
 
 
 
 
 
Business Outlook
The following statements are forward-looking statements which are based on current expectations and which involve risks and uncertainties some of which are set forth below. Autodesk is only providing revenue and earnings per share guidance for its fiscal second quarter of 2011 at this time.
Second Quarter Fiscal 2011
Net revenue for the second quarter of fiscal 2011 is expected to be in the range of $435 million and $460 million. On a GAAP basis, earnings per diluted share are expected to be in the range of $0.12 and $0.17.  On a non-GAAP basis, earnings per diluted share are expected to be in the range of $0.23 and $0.28, excluding $0.06 related to stock-based compensation expense, $0.04 for amortization of acquisition related intangibles, and $0.01 related to restructuring charges.
 
Second quarter outlook assumes an effective tax rate of 26 percent on a GAAP basis and an effective tax rate of 27 percent on a non-GAAP basis.
 
Full Year Fiscal 2011
Autodesk is not providing specific revenue or EPS guidance for fiscal 2011 at this time.  However, GAAP operating margin for the full year fiscal 2011 is expected to increase significantly compared to fiscal 2010.  Autodesk anticipates non-GAAP operating margin to increase approximately 300 basis points for full year fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010.  Non-GAAP operating margin excludes stock-based compensation expense, amortization of acquisition related intangibles, and restructuring charges.
 
Earnings Conference Call and Webcast
Autodesk will host its first quarter conference call today at 5:00 p.m. EDT. The live broadcast can be accessed at http://www.autodesk.com/investors. Supplemental financial information and prepared remarks for the conference call will be posted to the investor relations section of our website simultaneously with this press release.
 
NOTE:
The prepared remarks will not be read on the conference call.  The conference call will include only brief remarks followed by questions and answers.
 
 
 
 
 
A replay of the broadcast will be available at 7:00 pm EDT at http://www.autodesk.com/investors. This replay will be maintained on our website for at least twelve months.
 
Safe Harbor Statement
This press release contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including statements in the paragraphs under Business Outlook above, statements regarding anticipated market, economic and revenue trends, cost savings, operational and efficiency investments, and other statements regarding our expected strategies, market and products positions, performance and results.  Other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include the following:  general market, economic and business conditions, our performance in particular geographies, including emerging economies, the financial and business condition of our reseller and distribution channels, fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates, the s uccess of our foreign currency hedging program, failure to achieve and maintain planned cost reductions and productivity increases, slowing momentum in maintenance revenues, failure to achieve sufficient sell-through in our channels for new or existing products, pricing pressure, failure to successfully expand adoption of our horizontal design products, our vertical design products and model-based design products, difficulties encountered in integrating new or acquired businesses and technologies, the inability to identify and realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions, unexpected fluctuations in our tax rate, the timing and degree of expected investments in growth and efficiency opportunities, changes in the timing of product releases and retirements, failure of key new applications to achieve anticipated levels of customer acceptance, failure to achieve continued success in technology advancements, interruptions or terminations in the business of Autodesk consultants, and any unanticipated accounting charges.
 
Further information on potential factors that could affect the financial results of Autodesk are included in Autodesks report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 31, 2010, which is on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Autodesk does not assume any obligation to update the forward-looking statements provided to reflect events that occur or circumstances that exist after the date on which they were made.
 
About Autodesk
is a world leader in , engineering and entertainment software for the manufacturing, building and construction, and media and entertainment markets. Since its introduction of software in 1982, Autodesk continues to develop the broadest portfolio of state-of-the-art software to help customers experience their ideas digitally before they are built. Fortun e 100 companies - as well as the last 14 Academy Award winners for Best Visual Effects - use Autodesk software tools to design, visualize and simulate their ideas to save time and money, enhance quality, and foster innovation for competitive advantage.
Autodesk, Inc.
3D design
AutoCAD
 
Autodesk and AutoCAD are registered trademarks or trademarks of Autodesk, Inc., and/or its subsidiaries and/or affiliates in the USA and/or other countries. Academy Award is a registered trademark of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences. All other brand names, product names, or trademarks belong to their respective holders. Autodesk reserves the right to alter product and service offerings, and specifications and pricing at any time without notice, and is not responsible for typographical or graphical errors that may appear in this document.  2010 Autodesk, Inc. All rights reserved.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Autodesk, Inc.
Reconciliation of GAAP financial measures to non-GAAP financial measures
(In millions, except per share data)
 
To supplement our consolidated financial statements presented on a GAAP basis, Autodesk provides investors with certain non-GAAP measures including non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per share, non-GAAP cost of license and other revenue, non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP income from operations and non-GAAP provision for income taxes.  These non-GAAP financial measures are adjusted to exclude certain costs, expenses, gains and losses, including stock-based compensation expense,  amortization of purchased intangibles,
restructuring charges, goodwill impairment, establishment of a valuation allowance on certain deferred tax assets and related in come tax expenses.  See our reconciliation of GAAP financial measures to non-GAAP financial measures herein.  We believe these exclusions are appropriate to enhance an overall understanding of our past financial performance and also our prospects for the future, as well as to facilitate comparisons with our historical operating results.  These adjustments to our GAAP results are made with the intent of providing both management and investors a more complete understanding of Autodesk's underlying operational results and trends and our marketplace performance.  For example, the non-GAAP results are an indication of our baseline performance before gains, losses or other charges that are considered by management to be outside our core operating results.  In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures are among the primary indicators management uses as a basis for our planning and forecasting of future periods.
 
There are limitations in using non-GAAP financial measures because the non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies.  The non-GAAP financial measures are limited in value because they exclude certain items that may have a material impact upon our reported financial results.  The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.  Investors should review the reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures as provided in the tables accompanying this press release.
 
The following table shows Autodesk's non-GAAP results reconciled to GAAP results included in this release.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1) To supplement our consolidated financial statements presented on a GAAP basis, Autodesk provides investors with certain non-GAAP measures including non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per share, non-GAAP cost of license and other revenue, non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP income from operations and non-GAAP provision for income taxes.  These non-GAAP financial measures are adjusted to exclude certain costs, expenses, gains and losses, including stock-based compensation expense, restructuring charges, amortization of purchased intangibles and related income tax expenses.  See our reconciliation of GAAP financial measures to non-GAAP financial measures herein.  We believe these exclusions are appropriate to enhance an overall
understanding of our past financial performance and also ou r prospects for the future, as well as to facilitate comparisons with our historical operating results.  These adjustments to our GAAP results are made with the intent of providing both management and investors a more complete understanding of Autodesk's underlying operational results and trends and our marketplace performance.  For example, the non-GAAP results are an indication of our baseline performance before gains, losses or other charges that are considered by management to be outside our core operating results.  In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures are among the primary indicators management uses as a basis for our planning and forecasting of future periods.
 
There are limitations in using non-GAAP financial measures because the non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies.  The non-GAAP financial measures are limited in value because they exclude certain items that may have a material impact upon our reported financial results.  The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.  Investors should review the reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures as provided in the ta bles accompanying Autodesk's press release.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
Autodesk is posting a copy of these prepared remarks in combination with its press release to its investor Website.  These prepared remarks are offered to provide shareholders and analysts with additional time and detail for analyzing our results in advance of our quarterly conference call. As previously scheduled, the conference call will begin today, May 19, 2010 at 2:00 pm PDT (5:00 pm EDT) and will include only brief comments followed by questions and answers. These prepared remarks will not be read on the call.
 
To access the live broadcast of the question and answer session, please visit the Investor Relations section of Autodesks Website at www.autodesk.com/investor.  A complete reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP results is provided in the tables following these prepared remarks.
 
 
First Quarter Fiscal 2011 Overview
Continued improvement in the demand environment and robust revenue growth in our international geographies, led to sequential and year-over-year overall revenue growth.  We experienced strong year-over-year growth in several key areas including maintenance billings, revenue from commercial new licenses, and cash flow from operations.  Our strong revenue growth coupled with a continued focus on containing operating expenses led to significant year-over-year improvement to operating margin and profitability.
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
Contributing to the first quarter results was the strength of our top five revenue producing products, which all recorded sequential and year-over-year revenue growth.  Revenue from commercial new licenses continued its momentum growing 5 percent sequentially and 24 percent compared to the first quarter last year.  This marks the fourth consecutive quarter that revenue from commercial new licenses has grown sequentially.
 
During the quarter, Autodesk ran a promotion in advance of an increase in upgrade pricing, which produced approximately $15 million in additional revenue for the quarter.  Total upgrade revenue in the first quarter was $51 million, an increase of 39 percent sequentially and 18 percent year-over-year.  The EMEA geography generated the majority of this additional revenue while AutoCAD LT and AutoCAD benefited the most from a product perspective.  We view much of this increase as one-time in nature and anticipate a sequential decline in upgrade revenue next quarter.  However, the majority of the upgrades attached to subscription, which will have an ongoing benefit to maintenance revenue.
 
International geographies were responsible for all of the revenue growth in the first quarter.  Asia Pacific posted strong growth sequentially and year-over-year, and EMEA continued to rebound posting both sequential and year-over-year growth.  Year-over-year growth from emerging economies in all geographies contributed to the strength.
 
From a product type perspective, revenue from our horizontal design products (previously referred to as 2D horizontal), recorded the strongest sequential and year-over-year growth influenced in part by the change in upgrade pricing.  Model-based design products (previously known as 3D model-based design) posted a modest sequential increase and strong year-over-year growth led by our Inventor family of products, and our Revit family of products.  Vertical design products (previously known as 2D vertical) also recorded good year-over-year growth and a slight sequential decline after recording strong growth in the fourth quarter.
 
 
2
 
 
Autodesk remains focused on controlling expenses while balancing investments in the business.  GAAP total spend (cost of revenue plus operating expenses) increased sequentially and decreased year-over-year.  GAAP total spend decreased year-over-year due to the lack of impairment charges and a reduction of restructuring charges.  Non-GAAP total spend increased sequentially and year-over-year as expected primarily driven by seasonality, the return of some costs that were suppressed last year, and costs associated with higher revenue.
 
Cash flow from operations was $139 million, an increase of 11 percent sequentially and 411 percent compared to the first quarter last year.  Year-over-year cash flow from operations was positively impacted by better net income and improvement in the cash collection cycle.  At the end of the first quarter, the companys cash and investments balance exceeded $1.2 billion with no outstanding debt.
 
 
Revenue Analysis
 
 
Given the recent foreign exchange volatility, we would like to provide a brief summary of how we handle foreign exchange currency hedging at Autodesk.  A few points to call out include:
 
 
Total net revenue for the first quarter was $475 million, 4 percent increase sequentially
as reported, a
and 11 percent compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2010.  At constant currency,
 revenue for the first quarter increased 6 percent
sequentially and 7 percent
compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2010.  
 
License and other revenue was $280 million, an increase of 4 percent sequentially and 15 percent compared to the first quarter last year.
 
Maintenance revenue was $195 million, an increase of 5 percent sequentially and 7 percent compared to the first quarter last year.
 
Maintenance billings decreased 3 percent sequentially due to normal seasonality, and increased 26 percent year-over-year.  Maintenance renewal rates continued to show improvement both sequentially and year-over-year.
 
 
3
 
 
Revenue by Geography
 
 
Revenue in
EMEA was $199 million, an increase of 6 percent sequentially
as reported and 9 percent on a constant currency basis.
  EMEA revenue increased 19 percent
compared to the first quarter of fi scal 2010 as reported and 10 percent on a constant currency basis.
 
Revenue in the Americas was $161 million, a decrease of 4 percent or $7 million sequentially and 1 percent or $2 million compared to the first quarter last year.  Americas revenue reflected more typical seasonal patterns with transactions greater than $1 million down from the fourth quarter.  While the Americas are not recovering as fast as the other geographies, it faced a more difficult quarter compared to the first quarter last year when it benefited from several large transactions.  The U.S. had small sequential and year-over-year declines.
 
Revenue in Asia Pacific was $115 million, an increase of 14 percent sequentially as reported and 15 percent on a constant currency basis.  Revenue in Asia Pacific increased 21 percent compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2010 as reported and increased 15 percent on a constant currency basis.  Japan, historically our largest contributor to APAC revenue, recorded strong sequential and year-over-year growth.
 
Revenue from emerging economies was $68 million, a decrease of 7 percent sequentially as reported and 4 percent on a constant currency basis.  Revenue from emerging economies increased 16 percent compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2010 as reported and 13 percent on a constant currency basis.
Revenue from Russia decreased sequentially after a strong fourth quarter but was one of the strongest year-over-year gainers.  Revenue from India, China, and Brazil grew sequentially and year-over-year.  Revenue from emerging economies represented 14 percent of total revenue in the quarter.
 
 
 
4
 
 
Revenue by Product Type
 
 
 
Revenue from our model-based design products was $138 million, an increase of 3 percent sequentially and 13 percent compared to the first quarter last year.  We experienced year-over-year growth in all of our model-based design products led by the Inventor family of products.
 
Our horizontal design products, which consist primarily of AutoCAD and AutoCAD LT, grew 19 percent sequentially and 20 percent compared to the first quarter last year.  Vertical design products, such as AutoCAD Architecture and AutoCAD Mechanical, decreased 2 percent sequentially and increased 8 percent compared to the first quarter last year.  Combined revenue from horizontal design products and vertical design products was $240 million, an increase of 12 percent sequentially and 17 percent compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2010.
 
Revenue by Business Segment
 
 
Revenue from our Platform Solutions and Emerging Business segment increased 12 percent sequentially to $184 million.  Platform Solutions increased 18 percent compared to the first quarter last year.  Both AutoCAD and AutoCAD LT recorded strong sequential and year-over-year growth in part driven by upgrades.
 
Revenue from our AEC business segment was $137 million, flat sequentially and an increase of 7 percent compared to the first quarter last year.  Year-over year growth was led by our Revit family of products and AutoCAD Architecture.  Revenue from our Revit family of products increased 5 percent sequentially and 13 percent compared to the first quarter last year.
 
 
5
 
 
Revenue from our Manufacturing business segment was $108 million, flat sequentially and an increase of 15 percent compared to the first quarter last year.  Revenue from the Inventor family of products increased 7 percent sequentially and 21 percent compared to the first quarter last year.
 
Revenue from our Media and Entertainment business segment was $46 million, approximately flat sequentially and a decrease of 4 percent compared to the first quarter last year.  Revenue from animation products decreased 2 percent sequentially and increased 10 percent compared to the first quarter last year.  Revenue from Creative Finishing (previously known as Advanced Systems) increased 3 percent sequentially and declined 25 percent compared to the first quarter last year.
 
 
Margins and EPS Review
 
 
GAAP gross margin in the first quarter was 89 percent.  Non-GAAP gross margin in the first quarter was 91 percent.  The sequential decrease in gross margin is primarily related to expenses for the fulfillment of new products to our subscription customers.
 
 
GAAP operating margin was 11 percent, a decrease from 12 percent in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010.  The decrease is primarily related to higher restructuring charges than the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 and a decrease in Interest and Other Income.  GAAP operating margin increased from -5 percent in the first quarter last year driven primarily by the lack of impairment charges, lower restructuring costs and stock-based compensation expenses.  Non-GAAP operating margin was 20 percent, flat sequentially and an increase from 13 percent in the first quarter last year and was driven by higher revenue.
 
 
6
 
 
The first quarter effective tax rate was 22 percent for our GAAP results and 27 percent for our non-GAAP results.
 
 
Earnings per diluted share for the first quarter were $0.16 GAAP and $0.29 non-GAAP.
 
 
A complete reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP results is provided in the tables following these prepared remarks.
 
 
Foreign Exchange Impact
 
 
Foreign currency impact includes the impact to revenue from our hedging program.
 
Compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, the foreign currency impact was $8 million unfavorable on revenue and $4 million favorable on expenses.
 
Compared to the first quarter of last year, the impact of foreign currency exchange rates in the first quarter was $21 million favorable on revenue and $11 million unfavorable on expenses.
 
 
7
 
 
Balance Sheet Items and Cash Review
 
 
Total cash and investments at the end of the first quarter was over $1.2 billion, or approximately $5.40 per share of common stock outstanding.
 
 
During the first quarter Autodesk used $59 million to repurchase approximately 2.0 million shares of common stock at an average price of $29.38 per share.
 
 
Cash flow from operating activities during the first quarter was $139 million, an increase of 11 percent sequentially and 411 percent compared to the first quarter last year.
 
 
Shippable backlog at the end of the first quarter was $22 million, a decrease of $4 million sequentially.
 
 
Deferred revenue was $544 million, an increase of 5 percent sequentially and 2 percent compared to the first quarter last year.  The sequential increase is primarily due to strong maintenance billings in the current quarter.
 
 
Total backlog at the end of the first quarter, including deferred revenue and shippable backlog orders was $565 million, an increase of $23 million sequentially and $9 million compared to the first quarter of last year.
 
 
Channel inventory at the end of the first quarter decreased sequentially and year-over-year in both weeks and dollars.  At the end of the first quarter, channel inventory was about two weeks.
 
 
Days sales outstanding was 42 days, a decrease of 13 days sequentially and seven days compared to the first quarter last year.  The sequential decrease was driven by seasonality of maintenance billings as well as a greater portion of current quarter billings occurring in the first and second months of the quarter as a result of the mid-quarter implementation of the simplified pricing program.
 
 
8
 
 
Business Outlook
 
Our guidance is based on our current expectations and the information we have available today, including currency exchange rates.  The majority of the projected euro and yen denominated revenue for our second quarter fiscal 2011 has been hedged, which should reduce the impact of currency fluctuations on our second quarter results.  However, over an extended period of time currency fluctuations will increasingly impact our results.
 
 
Second Quarter Fiscal 2011
 
 
Second quarter outlook assumes an effective tax rate of 26 percent for our GAAP results and an effective tax rate of 27 percent for our non-GAAP results.  The effective tax rates for both GAAP and non-GAAP results exclude any benefit from the federal research and development tax credit that expired at the end of 2009. Non-GAAP earnings per diluted share exclude $0.06 related to stock-based compensation expense, $0.04 for amortization of acquisition related intangibles, and $0.01 for restructuring related charges.
 
Autodesk is not providing specific revenue or EPS guidance for fiscal 2011 at this time.  However, GAAP operating margin for the full year fiscal 2011 is expected to increase significantly compared to fiscal 2010.  Autodesk anticipates non-GAAP operating margin to increase approximately 300 basis points for full year fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010.
 
For fiscal 2011, non-GAAP operating margin excludes stock-based compensation expense, amortization of acquisition related intangibles, and restructuring charges.
 
Safe Harbor Statement
 
These prepared remarks contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including statements in the paragraphs under Business Outlook, statements regarding anticipated market, economic, maintenance billings, and revenue trends, cost savings, operational and efficiency investments, revenue performance (including by geography and product), market and product positions and other statements regarding our expected strategies, performance and results.  Other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include the following:  general market, economic and business conditions, our performance in particular geographies, including emerging economies, the financial and business condition of our reseller and distribution channels, fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates, the success of our foreign currency hedging program, failure to achieve and maintain planned cost reductions and productivity increases, slowing momentum in maintenance revenues, failure to achieve sufficient sell-through in our channels for new or existing products, pricing pressure, failure to successfully expand adoption of our horizontal design products, our vertical design products and model-based design products, difficulties encountered in integrating new or acquired businesses and technologies, the inability to identify and realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions, unexpected fluctuations in our tax rate, the timing and degree of expected investments in growth and efficiency opportunities, changes in the timing of product releases and retirements, failure of key new applications to achieve anticipated levels of customer acceptance, failure to achieve continued success in technology advancements, interruptions or terminatio ns in the business of Autodesk consultants, and any unanticipated accounting charges.
 
 
 
9
 
 
Further information on potential factors that could affect the financial results of Autodesk are included in Autodesks report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 31, 2010, which is on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Autodesk does not assume any obligation to update the forward-looking statements provided to reflect events that occur or circumstances that exist after the date on which they were made.
 
 2010 Autodesk, Inc. All rights reserved.
 
 
 
 
 
10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1) To supplement our consolidated financial statements presented on a GAAP basis, Autodesk provides investors with certain non-GAAP measures including non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per share, non-GAAP cost of license and other revenue, non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP total spend, non-GAAP income from operations and non-GAAP provision for income taxes.  These non-GAAP financial measures are adjusted to exclude certain costs, expenses, gains and losses, including stock-based compensation expense, restructuring charges, amortization of purchased intangibles and related income tax expenses.  See our reconciliation of GAAP financial measures to non-GAAP financial measures herein.  We believe these exclusions are appropriate to enhance an overall
understanding of our past financial perfor mance and also our prospects for the future, as well as to facilitate comparisons with our historical operating results.  These adjustments to our GAAP results are made with the intent of providing both management and investors a more complete understanding of Autodesk's underlying operational results and trends and our marketplace performance.  For example, the non-GAAP results are an indication of our baseline performance before gains, losses or other charges that are considered by management to be outside our core operating results.  In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures are among the primary indicators management uses as a basis for our planning and forecasting of future periods.
 
There are limitations in using non-GAAP financial measures because the non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies.  The non-GAAP financial measures are limited in value because they exclude certain items that may have a material impact upon our reported financial results.  The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.  Investors should review the reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures as provided in the ta bles accompanying Autodesk's press release.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1) To supplement our consolidated financial statements presented on a GAAP basis, Autodesk provides investors with certain non-GAAP measures including non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per share, non-GAAP cost of license and other revenue, non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP total spend, non-GAAP income from operations and non-GAAP provision for income taxes.  These non-GAAP financial measures are adjusted to exclude certain costs, expenses, gains and losses, including stock-based compensation expense, restructuring charges, amortization of purchased intangibles, goodwill impairment, establishment of a valuation allowance on certain deferred tax assets and related income tax expenses.  See our reconciliation of GAAP financial measures to non-GAAP financial measures herein.  We believe these exclusions are appropriate to enhance an overall understanding of our past financial performance and also
our prospects for the future, as well as to facilitate comparisons with our historical operating results.  These adjustments to our GAAP results are made with the intent of providing both management and investors a more complete understanding of Autodesk's underlying operational results and trends and our marketplace performance.  For example, the non-GAAP results are an indication of our baseline performance before gains, losses or other charges that are considered by management to be outside our core operating results.  In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures are among the primary indicators management uses as a basis for our planning and forecasting of future periods.
 
There are limitations in using non-GAAP financial measures because the non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies.  The non-GAAP financial measures are limited in value because they exclude certain items that may have a material impact upon our reported financial results.  The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.  Investors should review the reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures as provided in the ta bles accompanying Autodesk's press release.
 
 
 
 


