FILE:ADSK/ADSK-8K-20100614160551.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Approval of EIP and Amendments to 2008 Plan
At the Annual Meeting of Stockholders of Autodesk, Inc. ("Autodesk" or the "Company") held on June 10, 2010 (the "Annual Meeting"), the stockholders of Autodesk voted on and approved the Autodesk Executive Incentive Plan, as amended (the "EIP"), and amendments to the Autodesk 2008 Employee Stock Plan (the "2008 Plan").
The terms and conditions of the EIP and the 2008 Plan are described in Autodesk's Proxy Statement dated April 27, 2010. The EIP and the 2008 Plan are filed as Exhibit 10.1 and Exhibit 10.2 hereto, respectively, and are each incorporated by reference herein.
Item 5.03. Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
On June 10, 2010, the Board of Directors of Autodesk amended Article III, Section 3.2 of the Company's Bylaws to change the number of directors from nine (9) to eight (8). The Bylaws are filed as Exhibit 3.1 hereto and are incorporated herein by reference.
Item 5.07. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
The information contained in Item 5.02 above is hereby incorporated by reference. At the Annual Meeting, the stockholders of Autodesk re-elected the following individuals to the Board of Directors. Each Director will serve for the ensuing year and until their successors are duly elected and qualified.
 
 
In addition, the following proposals were voted on and approved at our Annual Meeting.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: June 14, 2010
 

Exhibit 3.1
 
 
 
1.1 .
REGISTERED OFFICE
The registered office of Autodesk, Inc. (the "corporation") shall be fixed in the certificate of incorporation of the corporation.
1.2 .
OTHER OFFICES
The board of directors of the corporation (the "board of directors") may at any time establish branch or subordinate offices at any place or places where the corporation is qualified to do business.
2.1 .
PLACE OF MEETINGS
Meetings of stockholders of the corporation shall be held at any place within or outside the State of Delaware designated by the board of directors. The board of directors may, in its sole discretion, determine that a meeting of stockholders shall not be held at any place, but may instead be held solely by means of remote communication as authorized by Section 211 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. In the absence of any such designation, stockholders' meetings shall be held at the principal executive office of the corporation.
2.2 .
ANNUAL MEETING
The annual meeting of stockholders shall be held each year on a date and at a time designated by the board of directors. At the meeting, directors shall be elected, and any other proper business may be transacted.
2.3 .
SPECIAL MEETING
(a) A special meeting of the stockholders may be called at any time only by the board of directors acting pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the Whole Board, the chairman of the board, the chief executive officer or the president (in the absence of a chief executive officer), but a special meeting may not be called by any other person or persons. For purposes of these bylaws, the term "Whole Board" shall mean the total number of authorized directors whether or not there exist any vacancies in previously authorized directorships. The board of directors, acting pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the Whole Board, may cancel, postpone or reschedule any previously scheduled special meeting at any time, before or after the notice for such meeting has been sent to the stockholders.
(b) The notice of a special meeting shall include the purpose for which the meeting is called. Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting by or at the direction of the Whole Board, the chairman of the board, the chief executive officer or the president (in the absence of a chief executive officer). Nothing contained in this Section 2.3(b) shall be construed as limiting, fixing, or affecting the time when a special meeting of stockholders called by action of the board may be held.
2.4 .
NOTICE OF STOCKHOLDERS' MEETINGS
All notices of meetings of stockholders shall be sent or otherwise given in accordance with Section 2.6 of these bylaws not less than ten (10) nor more than sixty (60) calendar days before the date of the meeting to each stockholder entitled to vote at such meeting. The notice shall specify the place, if any, date and hour of the meeting, the means of remote communication, if any, by which stockholders and proxy holders may be deemed to be present in person and vote at such meeting and (i) in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called (no business other than that specified in the notice may be transacted) or (ii) in the case of the annual meeting, those matters which the board of directors, at the time of giving the notice, intends to present for action by the stockholders. The notice of any meeting at which directors are to be elected shall include the name of any nominee or nominees who, at the time of the notice, the board intends to present for election.
2.5 .
ADVANCE NOTICE OF STOCKHOLDER NOMINEES AND STOCKHOLDER BUSINESS
(a) Advance Notice of Stockholder Business.
At an annual meeting of the stockholders, only such business shall be conducted as shall have been properly brought before the meeting. To be properly brought before an annual meeting, business must be brought: (A) pursuant to the corporation's notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto) or at the direction of the board of directors, or (B) by a stockholder of the corporation who (1) is a stockholder of record at the time of the giving of the notice provided for in these bylaws and on the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to vote at the annual meeting and (2) has timely complied in proper written form with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 2.5(a). In addition, for business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder, such
 
business must be a proper matter for stockholder action pursuant to these bylaws and applicable law. For the avoidance of doubt, clause (B) above shall be the exclusive means for a stockholder to bring business before an annual meeting of stockholders. To comply with clause (B) of this Section 2.5(a) above, a stockholder's notice must be timely received by the secretary of the corporation and must set forth all information required under this Section 2.5(a), as follows.
(i) To be timely, a stockholder's notice must be received by the secretary of the corporation at the principal executive offices of the corporation not later than the 45th day nor earlier than the 75th day before the one-year anniversary of the date on which the corporation first mailed its proxy materials or a notice of availability of proxy materials (whichever is earlier) for the preceding year's annual meeting; , , that in the event that no annual meeting was held in the previous year or if the date of the annual meeting is advanced by more than thirty (30) days prior to or delayed by more than thirty (30) days after the one-year anniversary of the date of the previous year's annual meeting, then notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so received by the secretary of the corporation not earlier than the close of business on the 120th day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of (i) the 90th day prior to such annual meeting, or (ii) the tenth day following the day on which Public Announcement (as defined below) of the date of such annual meeting is first made. In no event shall any adjournment or postponement of an annual meeting or the announcement thereof commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described in this Section 2.5(a)(i). "Public Announcement" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or a comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or any successor thereto (the "Exchange Act").
provided
however
(ii) To be in proper written form, a stockholder's notice to the secretary of the corporation must set forth as to each matter of business the stockholder intends to bring before the annual meeting:
(1) a brief description of the business intended to be brought before the annual meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting;
(2) the name and address, as they appear on the corporation's books, of the stockholder proposing such business and any Stockholder Associated Person (as defined below);
(3) the class and number of shares of the corporation that are held of record or are beneficially owned by the stockholder or any Stockholder Associated Person;
(4) (A) any option, warrant, convertible security, stock appreciation right, or similar right with an exercise or conversion privilege or a settlement payment or mechanism at a price related to any class or series of shares of the corporation or with a value derived in whole or in part from the value of any class or series of shares of the corporation, whether or not such instrument or right shall be subject to settlement in the underlying class or series of capital stock of the corporation or otherwise (a "Derivative Instrument") directly or indirectly owned beneficially by such stockholder or any Stockholder Associated Person and any other direct or indirect opportunity
 
to profit or share in any profit derived from any increase or decrease in the value of shares of the corporation, (B) any proxy, contract, arrangement, understanding, or relationship pursuant to which such stockholder or any Stockholder Associated Person has a right to vote any shares of any security of the corporation, (C) any short interest in any security of the corporation held by such stockholder or any Stockholder Associated Person (for purposes of this Bylaw a person shall be deemed to have a short interest in a security if such person directly or indirectly, through any contract, arrangement, understanding, relationship or otherwise, has the opportunity to profit or share in any profit derived from any decrease in the value of the subject security), (D) any rights to dividends on the shares of the corporation owned beneficially by such stockholder or any Stockholder Associated Person that are separated or separable from the underlying shares of the corporation, (E) any proportionate interest in shares of the corporation or Derivative Instruments held, directly or indirectly, by a general or limited partnership in which such stockholder or any Stockholder Associated Person is a general partner or, directly or indirectly, beneficially owns an interest in a general partner or other entity in which such stockholder or any Stockholder Associated Person has any control over such entity, (F) any performance-related fees (other than an asset-based fee) that such stockholder or any Stockholder Associated Person is entitled to based on any increase or decrease in the value of shares of the corporation or Derivative Instruments, if any, as of the date of such notice, including, without limitation, any such interests held by members of such stockholder's or any Stockholder Associated Person's immediate family sharing the same household, and (G) a representation that the stockholder shall update the corporation promptly (but in no event more than three (3) business days) after any material change in the foregoing information between the date of such notice and the date of the annual meeting;
(5) a description of all agreements, arrangements and understandings between such stockholder or a Stockholder Associated Person and any other persons (including their names) with respect to either the proposal of such business or any securities of the corporation;
(6) any material interest of the stockholder or a Stockholder Associated Person in such business;
(7) any other information relating to such stockholder or Stockholder Associated Person that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with the solicitation of proxies for the proposal pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act; and
(8) a statement whether either such stockholder or any Stockholder Associated Person will deliver a proxy statement and form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the corporation's voting shares required under applicable law to carry the proposal (such information provided and statements made as required by clauses (1) through (8), a "Business Solicitation Statement").
In addition, to be in proper written form, a stockholder's notice to the secretary of the corporation must be supplemented not later than ten days following the record date to disclose the information contained in clauses (3) and (4) above as of the record date. For purposes of this Section 2.5, a "Stockholder Associated Person" of a stockholder shall mean (i) any person controlling, directly or indirectly, or acting in concert with, such stockholder, (ii) any beneficial
 
owner of shares of stock of the corporation owned of record or beneficially by such stockholder and on whose behalf the proposal or nomination, as the case may be, is being made (iii) any person controlling, controlled by or under common control with such person referred to in the preceding clauses (i) and (ii).
(iii) Without exception, no business shall be conducted at any annual meeting except in accordance with the provisions set forth in this Section 2.5(a) and, if applicable, Section 2.5(b)(i). In addition, business proposed to be brought by a stockholder may not be brought before the annual meeting if such stockholder or a Stockholder Associated Person, as applicable, takes action contrary to the representations made in the Business Solicitation Statement applicable to such business or if the Business Solicitation Statement applicable to such business contains an untrue statement of a material fact or omits to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein not misleading. The chairperson of the annual meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare at the annual meeting that business was not properly brought before the annual meeting and in accordance with the provisions of this Section 2.5(a), and, if the chairperson should so determine, he or she shall so declare at the annual meeting that any such business not properly brought before the annual meeting shall not be conducted. The foregoing provisions of this Section 2.5(a) shall not prevent the consideration and approval or disapproval at an annual meeting of reports of officers, directors and committees of the board of directors, but in connection therewith no new business shall be acted upon at any such meeting unless stated, filed and received as herein provided.
(iv) In addition to the foregoing provisions of this Section 2.5(a), a stockholder must also comply with all applicable requirements of state law and of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this Section 2.5(a), including, with respect to business such stockholder intends to bring before the annual meeting that involves a proposal that such stockholder requests to be included in the corporation's proxy statement, the requirements of Rule 14a-8 (or any successor provision) under the Exchange Act. Nothing in this Section 2.5(a) shall be deemed to affect any right of the corporation to omit a proposal from the corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 (or any successor provision) under the Exchange Act.
(b) Advance Notice of Director Nominations.
(i) Advance Notice of Director Nominations at Annual Meetings.
(1) Notwithstanding anything in these bylaws to the contrary, only persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 2.5(b)(i) shall be eligible for election or re-election as directors at an annual meeting of stockholders. Nominations of persons for election to the board of directors of the corporation shall be made at an annual meeting of stockholders only (A) by or at the direction of the board of directors or (B) by a stockholder of the corporation who (1) was a stockholder of record at the time of the giving of the notice provided for in these bylaws and on the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to vote at the annual meeting and (2) has complied with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 2.5(b)(i). In addition to any other applicable requirements, for a nomination to be made by a stockholder, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in proper written form to the secretary of the corporation.
 
(2) To comply with clause (B) of Section 2.5(b)(i)(1) above, a nomination to be made by a stockholder must set forth all information required under this Section 2.5(b)(i) and must be received by the secretary of the corporation at the principal executive offices of the corporation at the time and in accordance with Section 2.5(a)(i) above.
(3) To be in proper written form, such stockholder's notice to the secretary of the corporation must set forth:
a) as to each person (a "nominee") whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election or re-election as a director: (A) the name, age, business address and residence address of the nominee, (B) the principal occupation or employment of the nominee, (C) the class and number of shares of the corporation that are held of record or are beneficially owned by the nominee, (D) the information required to be provided pursuant to Section 2.5(a)(ii)(4) above, (E) a description of all arrangements or understandings between the stockholder and each nominee and any other person or persons (naming such person or persons) pursuant to which the nominations are to be made by the stockholder, (F) a written statement executed by the nominee acknowledging that as a director of the corporation, the nominee will owe a fiduciary duty under Delaware law with respect to the corporation and its stockholders, (G) a written statement of such person that such person, if elected, intends to tender, promptly following such person's election or re-election, an irrevocable resignation effective upon such person's failure to receive the required vote for re-election at the next meeting at which such person would face re-election and upon acceptance of such resignation by the board of directors, in accordance with the corporation's Corporate Governance Guidelines, and (H) any other information relating to the nominee that would be required to be disclosed about such nominee if proxies were being solicited for the election of the nominee as a director, or that is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act (including without limitation the nominee's written consent to being named in the proxy statement, if any, as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected); and
b) as to the stockholder giving notice, (A) the information required to be provided pursuant to Section 2.5(a)(ii) above, and the supplement referenced in the second sentence of Section 2.5(a)(ii) above (except that the references to "business" in such clauses shall instead refer to nominations of directors for purposes of this paragraph), and (B) a statement whether either such stockholder or Stockholder Associated Person will deliver a proxy statement and form of proxy to holders of a number of the corporation's voting shares reasonably believed by such stockholder or Stockholder Associated Person to be necessary to elect such nominee(s) (such information provided and statements made as required by clauses (A) and (B) above, a "Nominee Solicitation Statement").
(4) At the request of the board of directors, any person nominated by a stockholder for election as a director must furnish to the secretary of the corporation (1) that information required to be set forth in the stockholder's notice of nomination of such person as a director as of a date subsequent to the date on which the notice of such person's nomination was given and (2) such other information as may reasonably be required by the corporation to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as an independent director of the corporation or that could be material to a reasonable stockholder's understanding of the independence, or lack thereof, of such nominee; in the absence of the furnishing of such information if requested, such stockholder's nomination shall not be considered in proper form pursuant to this Section 2.5(b)(i).
 
(5) In addition to the foregoing provisions of this Section 2.5(b)(i), a stockholder must also comply with all applicable requirements of state law and of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this Section 2.5(b)(i).
(6) Without exception, no person shall be eligible for election or re-election as a director of the corporation at an annual meeting of stockholders unless nominated in accordance with the provisions set forth in this Section 2.5(b)(i). In addition, a nominee shall not be eligible for election or re-election if a stockholder or Stockholder Associated Person, as applicable, takes action contrary to the representations made in the Nominee Solicitation Statement applicable to such nominee or if the Nominee Solicitation Statement applicable to such nominee contains an untrue statement of a material fact or omits to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein not misleading. The chairperson of the annual meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare at the annual meeting that a nomination was not made in accordance with the provisions prescribed by these bylaws, and if the chairperson should so determine, he or she shall so declare at the annual meeting, and the defective nomination shall be disregarded.
(ii) Advance Notice of Director Nominations for Special Meetings.
(1) For a special meeting of stockholders at which directors are to be elected pursuant to Section 2.3, nominations of persons for election to the board of directors shall be made only (1) by or at the direction of the board of directors or (2) by any stockholder of the corporation who (A) is a stockholder of record at the time of the giving of the notice provided for in these bylaws and on the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to vote at the special meeting and (B) delivers a timely written notice of the nomination to the secretary of the corporation that includes the information set forth in Sections 2.5(b)(i)(3) and (4) above. To be timely, such notice must be received by the secretary of the corporation at the principal executive offices of the corporation not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such special meeting or the tenth day following the day on which Public Announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the board of directors to be elected at such meeting. In addition to the foregoing provisions of this Section 2.5(b)(ii), a stockholder must also comply with all applicable requirements of state law and of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this Section 2.5(b)(ii). A person shall not be eligible for election or re-election as a director at a special meeting unless the person is nominated (i) by or at the direction of the board of directors or (ii) by a stockholder in accordance with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 2.5(b)(ii). In addition, a nominee shall not be eligible for election or re-election if a stockholder or Stockholder Associated Person, as applicable, takes action contrary to the representations made in the Nominee Solicitation Statement applicable to such nominee or if the Nominee Solicitation Statement applicable to such nominee contains an untrue statement of a material fact or omits to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein not misleading.
(2) The chairperson of the special meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare at the meeting that a nomination or business was not made in accordance with the procedures prescribed by these bylaws, and if the chairperson should so determine, he or she shall so declare at the meeting, and the defective nomination or business shall be disregarded.
 
2.6 .
MANNER OF GIVING NOTICE; AFFIDAVIT OF NOTICE
Written notice of any meeting of stockholders shall be given either (i) personally, (ii) by private courier, (iii) by first or third-class United States mail, (iv) by other written communication, (v) by electronic means, if directed to an electronic mail address at which the stockholder has consented to received notice, (vi) by facsimile transmission, when directed to a number which the stockholder has consented to received notice, and (vii) by other electronic or wireless means. Notices not personally delivered shall be sent charges prepaid and shall be addressed to the stockholder at the address of that stockholder appearing on the books of the corporation or given by the stockholder to the corporation for the purpose of notice. Notice shall be deemed to have been given at the time when delivered personally or by courier or deposited in the mail or sent by other means of written communication or other electronic or wireless means.
An affidavit of the mailing or other means of giving any notice of any stockholders' meeting, executed by the secretary or an assistant secretary of the corporation, or of any transfer agent or any other agent of the corporation giving the notice, shall be prima facie evidence of the giving of such notice.
2.7 .
QUORUM
The holders of a majority in voting power of the stock issued and outstanding and entitled to vote thereat, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at all meetings of the stockholders for the transaction of business except as otherwise provided by statute or by the certificate of incorporation. If, however, such quorum is not present or represented at any meeting of the stockholders, then either (i) the chairman of the meeting or (ii) the stockholders entitled to vote thereat, present in person or represented by proxy, shall have power to adjourn the meeting in accordance with Section 2.8 of these bylaws.
When a quorum is present at any meeting, the vote of the holders of a majority of the stock having voting power present in person or represented by proxy shall decide any question properly brought before such meeting, unless the question is one upon which, by express provision of the laws of the State of Delaware or of the certificate of incorporation or these bylaws, a different vote is required, in which case such express provision shall govern and control the decision of the question.
If a quorum be initially present, the stockholders may continue to transact business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough stockholders to leave less than a quorum, if any action taken is approved by a majority of the stockholders initially constituting the quorum.
2.8 .
ADJOURNED MEETING; NOTICE
When a meeting is adjourned to another time and place, unless these bylaws otherwise require, notice need not be given of the adjourned meeting if the time, place, if any, thereof, and the means of remote communications, if any, by which stockholders and proxy holders may be deemed to be present in person and vote at such adjourned meeting, are announced at the meeting at which
 
the adjournment is taken. At the adjourned meeting the corporation may transact any business that might have been transacted at the original meeting. If the adjournment is for more than thirty (30) calendar days, or if after the adjournment a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting.
2.9 .
VOTING
The stockholders entitled to vote at any meeting of stockholders shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.11 of these bylaws, subject to the provisions of Sections 217 and 218 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (relating to voting rights of fiduciaries, pledgors and joint owners, and to voting trusts and other voting agreements).
Except as may be otherwise provided in the certificate of incorporation or these bylaws, each stockholder shall be entitled to one vote for each share of capital stock held by such stockholder.
2.10 .
STOCKHOLDER ACTION BY WRITTEN CONSENT WITHOUT A MEETING
(a) . Subject to the other provisions of these bylaws, any action required or permitted to be taken at any annual or special meeting of stockholders may be taken without a meeting, without prior notice and without a vote, if a consent or consents in writing setting forth the action so taken shall be signed by the holders of outstanding stock having not less than the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to authorize or take such action at a meeting at which all shares entitled to vote thereon were present and voted.
Stockholder Action and Request for Record Date
The record date for determining stockholders entitled to express consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting shall be as fixed by the board of directors or as otherwise established under this Section 2.10. Any person seeking to have the stockholders authorize or take corporate action by written consent without a meeting shall, by written notice addressed to the secretary of the corporation and delivered to the corporation and signed by a stockholder of record, request that a record date be fixed for such purpose. The written notice must contain the information set forth in paragraph (b) of this section. Following receipt of the notice, the board of directors shall have ten (10) calendar days to determine the validity of the request, and if appropriate, adopt a resolution fixing the record date for such purpose. The record date for such purpose shall be no more than ten (10) calendar days after the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the board of directors and shall not precede the date such resolution is adopted. If the board of directors fails within ten (10) calendar days after the corporation receives such notice to fix a record date for such purpose, provided that the request is valid and fixing a record date is appropriate, the record date shall be the day on which the first written consent is delivered to the corporation in the manner described in paragraph (d) of this Section 2.10; except that, if prior action by the board of directors is required under the provisions of Delaware law, the record date shall be at the close of business on the day on which the board of directors adopts the resolution taking such prior action.
 
(b) . Any stockholder's notice required by paragraph (a) of this Section 2.10 must describe the action that the stockholder proposes to take by consent. For each such proposal, every notice by a stockholder must include the information required by Section 2.5 as though such stockholder was intending to make a nomination or to bring any other matter before a meeting of stockholders, and, to the extent not otherwise required by Section 2.5, such notice must also state, (i) the text of the proposal (including the text of any resolutions to be effected by consent and the language of any proposed amendment to the bylaws of the corporation), (ii) the reasons for soliciting consents for the proposal, (iii) any material interest in the proposal held by the stockholder and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the action is to be taken, and (iv) any other information relating to the stockholder, the beneficial owner, or the proposal that would be required to be disclosed in filings in connection with the solicitation of proxies or consents pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (or any successor provision of the Exchange Act or the rules or regulations promulgated thereunder).
Notice Requirements
(c) . Every written consent purporting to take or authorize the taking of corporate action (each such written consent is referred to in this paragraph and in paragraph (d) as a "Consent") must bear the date of signature of each stockholder who signs the Consent, and no Consent shall be effective to take the corporate action referred to therein unless, within sixty (60) days of the earliest dated Consent delivered in the manner required by this Section 2.10, Consents signed by a sufficient number of stockholders to take such action are so delivered to the corporation.
Date of Consent
(d) . Every Consent must be delivered to the corporation by delivery to its registered office in the state of Delaware, its principal place of business, or an officer or agent of the corporation having custody of the book in which the proceedings of meetings of stockholders are recorded. Delivery must be made by hand or by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested.
Delivery of Consent / Inspectors of Election
Within five (5) business days after receipt of the earliest dated Consent delivered to the corporation in the manner provided above or the determination by the board of directors that the corporation should seek corporate action by written consent, as the case may be, the secretary of the corporation shall engage nationally recognized independent inspectors of elections for the purpose of performing a ministerial review of the validity of the consents and revocations. The cost of retaining inspectors of election shall be borne by the corporation.
Consents and revocations shall be delivered to the inspectors upon receipt by the corporation, the soliciting stockholders or their proxy solicitors or other designated agents. As soon as consents and revocations are received, the inspectors shall review the consents and revocations and shall maintain a count of the number of valid and unrevoked consents. The inspectors shall keep such count confidential and shall not reveal the count to the corporation, the soliciting stockholder or their representatives or any other entity. In the event the inspectors determine that valid and unrevoked consents representing a sufficient number of shares to approve the actions proposed to be taken by consent have been delivered, the inspectors shall inform the corporation and the soliciting stockholders of that determination, and in any event the inspectors shall inform the corporation and the soliciting stockholders of the number of valid, unrevoked consents received by the inspectors as of the close of business on the sixtieth (60
th
) day following the earliest-dated consent delivered to the corporation.
 
(e) . Nothing contained in this Section 2.10 shall in any way be construed to suggest or imply that the board of directors or any stockholder shall not be entitled to contest the validity of any Consent or related revocations, whether before or after such certification by the inspectors or to take any other action (including, without limitation, the commencement, prosecution, or defense of any litigation with respect thereto, and the seeking of injunctive relief in such litigation).
Challenge to Validity of Consent
2.11 .
RECORD DATE FOR STOCKHOLDER NOTICE; VOTING
For purposes of determining the stockholders entitled to notice of any meeting or to vote thereat, the board of directors may fix a record date, which shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the board of directors and which shall not be more than sixty (60) calendar days nor less than ten (10) calendar days before the date of any such meeting, and in such event only stockholders of record on the date so fixed are entitled to notice and to vote, notwithstanding any transfer of any shares on the books of the corporation after the record date.
If the board of directors does not so fix a record date, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be at the close of business on the business day next preceding the day on which notice is given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the business day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held.
A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting unless the board of directors fixes a new record date for the adjourned meeting, but the board of directors shall fix a new record date if the meeting is adjourned for more than thirty (30) days from the date set for the original meeting.
The record date for any purpose other than acting by written consent or determining entitlement to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be as provided in Section 8.1 of these bylaws.
2.12 .
PROXIES
Every stockholder entitled to vote for directors, or on any other matter, shall have the right to do so either in person or by one or more agents authorized by a written proxy signed by the person and filed with the secretary of the corporation, but no such proxy shall be voted or acted upon after three (3) years from its date, unless the proxy provides for a longer period. A proxy shall be deemed signed if the stockholder's name is placed on the proxy (whether by manual signature, typewriting, telegraphic transmission, telefacsimile or otherwise) by the stockholder or the stockholder's attorney-in-fact. The revocability of a proxy that states on its face that it is irrevocable shall be governed by the provisions of Section 212(e) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
 
2.13 .
ORGANIZATION
The chief executive officer, or in the absence of the chief executive officer, the president, or in the absence of the president, the chairman of the board, or in the absence of the chairman of the board, any vice president (excluding Non-Executive Officers, as described in Section 5.1 of these bylaws), shall call the meeting of the stockholders to order, and shall act as chairman of the meeting. In the absence of the chief executive officer, the president, the chairman of the board, and all of the vice presidents (excluding Non-Executive Officers, as described in Section 5.1 of these bylaws), the stockholders shall appoint a chairman for such meeting. The chairman of any meeting of stockholders shall determine the order of business and the procedures at the meeting, including such matters as the regulation of the manner of voting and the conduct of business. The secretary of the corporation shall act as secretary of all meetings of the stockholders, but in the absence of the secretary of the corporation at any meeting of the stockholders, the chairman of the meeting may appoint any person to act as secretary of the meeting.
2.14 .
LIST OF STOCKHOLDERS ENTITLED TO VOTE
The officer who has charge of the stock ledger of the corporation shall prepare and make, at least ten (10) calendar days before every meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, and showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder. The corporation shall not be required to include electronic mail addresses or other electronic contact information on such list. Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, during ordinary business hours, for a period of at least ten (10) calendar days prior to the meeting: (i) on a reasonably accessible electronic network, provided that the information required to gain access to such list is provided with the notice of the meeting, or (ii) during ordinary business hours, at the corporation's principal executive office. In the event that the corporation determines to make the list available on an electronic network, the corporation may take reasonable steps to ensure that such information is available only to stockholders of the corporation. If the meeting is to be held at a place, then the list shall be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time thereof, and may be inspected by any stockholder who is present. If the meeting is to be held solely by means of remote communication, then the list shall also be open to the examination of any stockholder during the whole time of the meeting on a reasonably accessible electronic network, and the information required to access such list shall be provided with the notice of the meeting. The stock ledger shall be the only evidence as to who are the stockholders entitled to examine the stock ledger, the list of stockholders or the books of the corporation, or to vote in person or by proxy at any meeting of stockholders and of the number of shares held by each such stockholder.
2.15 .
INSPECTORS OF ELECTION
Before any meeting of stockholders, the board of directors may appoint an inspector or inspectors of election to act at the meeting or its adjournment. If no inspector of election is so appointed, then the chairman of the meeting may appoint an inspector or inspectors of election to act at the meeting. The number of inspectors shall be either one (1) or three (3). If any person appointed as inspector fails to appear or fails or refuses to act, then the chairperson of the meeting may, and upon the request of any stockholder or a stockholder's proxy shall, appoint a person to fill that vacancy.
 
Such inspectors shall:
(i) determine the number of shares outstanding and the voting power of each, the number of shares represented at the meeting, the existence of a quorum, and the authenticity, validity, and effect of proxies and ballots;
(ii) receive, count and tabulate all votes or ballots; and
(iii) hear and determine all challenges to any determinations made by the inspectors.
The inspectors of election shall perform their duties impartially, in good faith, to the best of their ability and as expeditiously as is practical. If there are three (3) inspectors of election, the decision, act or certificate of a majority is effective in all respects as the decision, act or certificate of all. Any report or certificate made by the inspectors of election is prima facie evidence of the facts stated therein.
3.1 .
POWERS
Subject to the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware and to any limitations in the certificate of incorporation or these bylaws relating to action required to be approved by the stockholders or by the outstanding shares, the business and affairs of the corporation shall be managed and all corporate powers shall be exercised by or under the direction of the board of directors.
3.2 .
NUMBER OF DIRECTORS
The board of directors shall consist of eight (8) members. The number of directors may be changed by an amendment to this bylaw, duly adopted by the board of directors or by the stockholders, or by a duly adopted amendment to the certificate of incorporation. No reduction of the authorized number of directors shall have the effect of removing any director prior to the expiration of such director's term of office.
3.3 .
ELECTION AND TERM OF OFFICE OF DIRECTORS
Except as provided in Section 3.4 of these bylaws, directors shall be elected at each annual meeting of stockholders to hold office until the next annual meeting. A nominee for director shall be elected to the board of directors if the votes cast for such nominee's election exceed the votes cast against such nominee's election; provided, however, that directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast at any meeting of stockholders for which (i) the secretary of the corporation receives notice that a stockholder has nominated a person for election to the board of directors in compliance with the advance notice requirements for stockholder nominees for director set forth in Section 2.5 of these bylaws and (ii) such nomination has not been withdrawn by such stockholder on or prior to
 
the date that is ten (10) calendar days in advance of the date the corporation files its definitive proxy statement (regardless of whether thereafter revised or supplemented) for such meeting with the Securities and Exchange Commission. If directors are to be elected by a plurality of the votes cast, stockholders shall not be permitted to vote against a nominee. Each director, including a director elected or appointed to fill a vacancy (including vacancies from newly created directorships), shall hold office until the expiration of the term for which elected and until a successor has been elected and qualified. Directors need not be stockholders unless so required by the certificate of incorporation or these bylaws. The certificate of incorporation or these bylaws may prescribe other qualifications for directors.
3.4 .
RESIGNATION, VACANCIES AND NEWLY CREATED DIRECTORSHIPS
(a) Any director may resign effective on giving notice in writing or by electronic transmission to the chairman of the board, the president, the secretary or the board of directors of the corporation, unless the notice specifies a later time for that resignation to become effective. If the resignation of a director is effective at a future time, the board of directors may elect a successor to take office when the resignation becomes effective.
(b) Vacancies in the board of directors and newly created directorships may only be filled by a majority of the remaining directors, even if less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director; however, if the board of directors so determines a vacancy created by the removal of a director by the vote of the stockholders or by court order may be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of the shares represented and voting at a duly held meeting at which a quorum is present (which shares voting affirmatively also constitute a majority of the required quorum). Each director so elected shall hold office until the next annual meeting of the stockholders and until a successor has been elected and qualified.
(c) Whenever the holders of any class or classes of stock or series thereof are entitled to elect one or more directors by the provisions of the certificate of incorporation, vacancies and newly created directorships of such class or classes or series may be filled by a majority of the directors elected by such class or classes or series thereof then in office, or by a sole remaining director so elected.
If at any time, by reason of death or resignation or other cause, the corporation should have no directors in office, then any officer or any stockholder or an executor, administrator, trustee or guardian of a stockholder, or other fiduciary entrusted with like responsibility for the person or estate of a stockholder, may call a special meeting of stockholders in accordance with the provisions of the certificate of incorporation or these bylaws, or may apply to the Court of Chancery for a decree summarily ordering an election as provided in Section 211 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
If, at the time of filling any vacancy or any newly created directorship, the directors then in office constitute less than a majority of the whole board (as constituted immediately prior to any such increase), then the Court of Chancery may, upon application of any stockholder or stockholders holding at least ten (10) percent of the total number of the shares at the time outstanding having the right to vote for such directors, summarily order an election to be held to fill any such vacancies or newly created directorships, or to replace the directors chosen by the directors then in office as aforesaid, which election shall be governed by the provisions of Section 211 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware as far as applicable.
 
3.5 .
REMOVAL OF DIRECTORS
Unless otherwise restricted by statute, by the certificate of incorporation or by these bylaws, any director or the entire board of directors may be removed, with or without cause, by the holders of a majority of the shares then entitled to vote at an election of directors.
3.6 .
PLACE OF MEETINGS; MEETINGS BY TELEPHONE
Regular meetings of the board of directors may be held at any place within or outside the State of Delaware that has been designated from time to time by resolution of the board. In the absence of such a designation, regular meetings shall be held at the principal executive office of the corporation unless otherwise designated in the notice of the meeting. Special meetings of the board may be held at any place within or outside the State of Delaware that has been designated in the notice of the meeting or, if not stated in the notice or if there is no notice, at the principal executive office of the corporation.
Any meeting of the board, regular or special, may be held by conference telephone or similar communication equipment, so long as all directors participating in the meeting can hear one another; and all such participating directors shall be deemed to be present in person at the meeting.
3.7 .
MINUTES
The board of directors shall keep regular minutes of its meetings.
3.8 .
REGULAR MEETINGS
Regular meetings of the board of directors may be held without notice at such time as shall from time to time be determined by the board of directors. If any regular meeting day shall fall on a legal holiday, then the meeting shall be held at the same time and place on the next succeeding full business day.
3.9 .
SPECIAL MEETINGS; NOTICE
Special meetings of the board of directors for any purpose or purposes may be called at any time by the chairman of the board, the president, the chief executive officer, any vice president (excluding Non-Executive Officers, as described in Section 5.1 of these bylaws), the secretary of the corporation or any two directors.
Notice of the time and place of special meetings shall be (i) delivered personally by hand, by courier or by telephone, (ii) sent by United States first-class mail, postage prepaid (iii) sent by facsimile, or (iv) sent by electronic mail or other electronic or wireless means, charges prepaid, addressed to each director at that director's address, telephone number, facsimile number or electronic mail address, as the case may be, as it is shown on the records of the corporation. If the
 
notice is (i) delivered personally by hand, by courier or by telephone, (ii) sent by facsimile or (iii) sent by electronic mail or other electronic or wireless means, it shall be delivered or sent at least twenty-four (24) hours before the time of the holding of the meeting. If the notice is sent by United States mail, it shall be deposited in the United States mail at least four (4) calendar days before the time of the holding of the meeting. Any oral notice given personally or by telephone may be communicated either to the director or to a person at the office of the director who the person giving the notice has reason to believe will promptly communicate it to the director. The notice need not specify the purpose or the place of the meeting, if the meeting is to be held at the principal executive office of the corporation or by conference telephone or similar communication equipment.
3.10 .
QUORUM
A majority of the authorized number of directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, except to adjourn as provided in Section 3.12 of these bylaws. Every act or decision done or made by a majority of the directors present at a duly held meeting at which a quorum is present shall be regarded as the act of the board of directors, subject to the provisions of the certificate of incorporation and applicable law.
A meeting at which a quorum is initially present may continue to transact business notwithstanding the withdrawal of directors, if any action taken is approved by at least a majority of the quorum for that meeting.
3.11 .
WAIVER OF NOTICE
Notice of a meeting need not be given to any director (i) who signs a waiver of notice, whether before or after the meeting, or (ii) who attends the meeting other than for the express purposed of objecting at the beginning of the meeting to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened. All such waivers shall be filed with the corporate records or made part of the minutes of the meeting. A waiver of notice need not specify the purpose of any regular or special meeting of the board of directors.
3.12 .
ADJOURNMENT
A majority of the directors present, whether or not constituting a quorum, may adjourn any meeting of the board to another time and place.
3.13 .
NOTICE OF ADJOURNMENT
Notice of the time and place of holding an adjourned meeting of the board need not be given unless the meeting is adjourned for more than twenty-four (24) hours. If the meeting is adjourned for more than twenty-four (24) hours, then notice of the time and place of the adjourned meeting shall be given before the adjourned meeting takes place, in the manner specified in Section 3.9 of these bylaws, to the directors who were not present at the time of the adjournment.
 
3.14 .
BOARD ACTION BY WRITTEN CONSENT WITHOUT A MEETING
Any action required or permitted to be taken by the board of directors may be taken without a meeting, provided that all members of the board individually or collectively consent in writing or by electronic transmission to that action. Such action by written consent or electronic transmission shall have the same force and effect as a unanimous vote of the board of directors. Such written consent and any counterparts thereof or electronic transmission or transmissions shall be filed with the minutes of the proceedings of the board of directors.
3.15 .
FEES AND COMPENSATION OF DIRECTORS
Directors and members of committees may receive such compensation, if any, for their services and such reimbursement of expenses as may be fixed or determined by resolution of the board of directors. This Section 3.15 shall not be construed to preclude any director from serving the corporation in any other capacity as an officer, agent, employee or otherwise and receiving compensation for those services.
3.16 .
APPROVAL OF LOANS TO OFFICERS
Subject to the last sentence hereof, the corporation may lend money to, or guarantee any obligation of, or otherwise assist any employee of the corporation or its subsidiaries, whenever, in the judgment of the directors, such loan, guaranty or assistance may reasonably be expected to benefit the corporation. The loan, guaranty or other assistance may be with or without interest and may be unsecured, or secured in such manner as the board of directors shall approve, including, without limitation, a pledge of shares of stock of the corporation. Nothing contained in this Section 3.16 shall be deemed to deny, limit or restrict the powers of guaranty or warranty of the corporation at common law or under any statute. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the corporation shall in no event make any new loan to any director of executive officer or make any material modification to any existing loan.
3.17 .
SOLE DIRECTOR PROVIDED BY CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION
In the event only one director is required by these bylaws or the certificate of incorporation, then any reference herein to notices, waivers, consents, meetings or other actions by a majority or quorum of the directors shall be deemed to refer to such notice, waiver, etc., by such sole director, who shall have all the rights and duties and shall be entitled to exercise all of the powers and shall assume all the responsibilities otherwise herein described as given to the board of directors.
 
4.1 .
COMMITTEES OF DIRECTORS
The board of directors may, by resolution adopted by a majority of the authorized number of directors, designate one (1) or more committees, each consisting of one (1) or more of the directors, to serve at the pleasure of the board. The board may designate one (1) or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee. The appointment of members or alternate members of a committee requires the vote of a majority of the authorized number of directors. Any committee, to the extent provided in the resolution of the board, shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the board, but no such committee shall have the power or authority to (i) approve or adopt or recommend to the stockholders any action or matter that requires the approval of the stockholders or (ii) adopt, amend, or repeal any bylaw of the corporation.
4.2 .
MEETINGS AND ACTION OF COMMITTEES
Meetings and actions of committees shall be governed by, and held and taken in accordance with, the following provisions of Article III of these bylaws: Section 3.6 (place of meetings; meetings by telephone), Section 3.8 (regular meetings), Section 3.9 (special meetings; notice), Section 3.10 (quorum), Section 3.11 (waiver of notice), Section 3.12 (adjournment), Section 3.13 (notice of adjournment) and Section 3.14 (board action by written consent without meeting), with such changes in the context of those bylaws as are necessary to substitute the committee, its chair and its members for the board of directors, its chair and its members; provided, however, that the time of regular meetings of committees may be determined either by resolution of the board of directors or by resolution of the committee, that special meetings of committees may also be called by resolution of the board of directors, and that notice of special meetings of committees shall also be given to all alternate members, who shall have the right to attend all meetings of the committee. The board of directors may adopt rules for the government of any committee not inconsistent with the provisions of these bylaws.
4.3 .
COMMITTEE MINUTES
Each committee shall keep regular minutes of its meetings and report the same to the board of directors when required.
5.1 .
OFFICERS
The Executive Officers of the corporation shall be such persons as are designated as such by the board of directors and shall include, but not be limited to, a chief executive officer, a president and a chief financial officer. Additional Executive Officers may by appointed by the board of directors from time to time.
In addition to the Executive Officers of the corporation described above, there may also be such Non-Executive Officers of the corporation as may be designated and appointed from time to time by the chief executive officer of the corporation in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.2 of these bylaws. Any number of offices may be held by the same person.
 
5.2 .
ELECTION OF OFFICERS
The Executive Officers of the corporation shall be chosen by the board of directors, subject to the rights, if any, of an Executive Officer under any contract of employment, and shall hold their respective offices for such terms as the board of directors may from time to time determine.
Non-Executive Officers of the corporation shall be chosen by the chief executive officer of the corporation and shall hold their respective offices for such terms as the chief executive officer may from time to time determine.
5.3 .
REMOVAL AND RESIGNATION OF OFFICERS
Subject to the rights, if any, of an Executive Officer under any contract of employment, any Executive Officer may be removed, either with or without cause, by the board of directors at any regular or special meeting of the board.
Any Non-Executive Officer may be removed, either with or without cause, at any time by the chief executive officer of the corporation or by the Executive Officer to whom such Non-Executive Officer reports.
Any officer may resign at any time by giving written notice to the corporation. Any resignation shall take effect at the date of the receipt of that notice or at any later time specified in that notice; and, unless otherwise specified in that notice, the acceptance of the resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective. Any resignation is without prejudice to the rights, if any, of the corporation under any contract to which the officer is a party.
5.4 .
VACANCIES IN OFFICES
A vacancy in any office because of death, resignation, removal, disqualification or any other cause shall be filled in the manner prescribed in these bylaws for regular appointments to that office.
5.5 .
CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD
The chairman of the board, if such an officer be elected, shall, if present, preside at meetings of the board of directors and exercise such other powers and perform such other duties as may from time to time be assigned to him or her by the board of directors or as may be prescribed by these bylaws. If there is no chairman of the board, then the chief executive officer of the corporation shall have the powers and duties prescribed herein.
5.6 .
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
Subject to such supervisory powers, if any, as may be given by the board of directors to the chairman of the board, if there be such an officer, the chief executive officer of the corporation shall, subject to the control of the board of directors, have general supervision, direction and control of the business and the officers of the corporation. He or she shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders and, in the absence or nonexistence of a chairman of the board, at all meetings of the board of directors.
 
5.7 .
PRESIDENT
Subject to such supervisory powers, if any, as may be given by the board of directors to the chief executive officer, if there be such an officer, the president of the corporation shall, subject to the control of the board of directors, have general supervision over the operations of the corporation. He or she shall have the general powers and duties of management usually vested in the office of president of a corporation, and shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the board of directors or these bylaws.
5.8 .
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
The chief financial officer shall keep and maintain, or cause to be kept and maintained, adequate and correct books and records of accounts of the properties and business transactions of the corporation, including accounts of its assets, liabilities, receipts, disbursements, gains, losses, capital, retained earnings and shares. The books of account shall at all reasonable times be open to inspection by any director for a purpose reasonably related to his or her position as a director.
The chief financial officer shall deposit all money and other valuables in the name and to the credit of the corporation with such depositaries as may be designated by the board of directors. He or she shall disburse the funds of the corporation as may be ordered by the board of directors, shall render to the president and directors, whenever they request it, an account of all of his or her transactions as chief financial officer and of the financial condition of the corporation, and shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the board of directors or these bylaws.
5.9 .
EXECUTIVE OFFICER VICE PRESIDENTS
In the absence or disability of the president, and if there is no chairman of the board, the Executive Officer vice presidents, if any, in order of their rank as fixed by the board of directors or, if not ranked, an Executive Officer vice president designated by the board of directors, shall perform all the duties of the president and when so acting shall have all the powers of, and be subject to all the restrictions upon, the president. The Executive Officer vice presidents shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as from time to time may be prescribed for them respectively by the board of directors, these bylaws, the president or the chairman of the board.
5.10 .
SECRETARY AND ASSISTANT SECRETARY
The secretary shall keep or cause to be kept, at the principal executive office of the corporation or such other place as the board of directors may direct, a book of minutes of all meetings and actions of the board of directors, committees of directors and stockholders. The minutes shall show the date, time and place, if any, of each meeting, whether regular or special (and, if special, how authorized and the notice given), the names of those present at directors' meetings or committee meetings, the number of shares present or represented at stockholders' meetings and the proceedings thereof.
 
The secretary shall keep, or cause to be kept, at the principal executive office of the corporation or at the office of the corporation's transfer agent or registrar, as determined by resolution of the board of directors, a share register or a duplicate share register, showing the names of all stockholders and their addresses, the number and classes of shares held by each, the number and date of certificates evidencing such shares and the number and date of cancellation of every certificate surrendered for cancellation.
The secretary shall give, or cause to be given, notice of all meetings of the stockholders and of the board of directors required to be given by law or by these bylaws. He or she shall keep the seal of the corporation, if one be adopted, in safe custody and shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the board of directors or by these bylaws.
The assistant secretary, if any, or, if there is more than one, the assistant secretaries in the order determined by the board of directors (or if there be no such determination, then in the order of their election) shall, in the absence of the secretary or in the event of his or her inability or refusal to act, perform the duties and exercise the powers of the secretary and shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as the board of directors may from time to time prescribe.
5.11 .
AUTHORITY AND DUTIES OF OFFICERS
In addition to the foregoing powers, authority and duties, all officers of the corporation shall respectively have such authority and powers and perform such duties in the management of the business of the corporation as may be designated from time to time by the board of directors.
5.12 .
EXECUTION OF CONTRACTS AND OTHER DOCUMENTS
Each Executive Officer and Non-Executive Officer of the corporation may execute, affix the corporate seal and/or deliver, in the name and on behalf of the corporation, deeds, mortgages, notes, bonds, contracts, agreements, powers of attorney, guarantees, settlements, releases, evidences of indebtedness, conveyances or any other document or instrument which (i) is authorized by the board of directors or (ii) is executed in accordance with policies adopted by the board of directors from time to time, except in each case where the execution, affixation of the corporate seal and/or delivery thereof shall be expressly and exclusively delegated by the board of directors to some other officer or agent of the corporation.
6.1 .
INDEMNIFICATION OF DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS
The corporation shall, to the maximum extent and in the manner permitted by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware as the same now exists or may hereafter be amended, indemnify any person against expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines, and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred in connection with any threatened, pending or completed action, suit, or proceeding in which such person was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party by reason of the fact that such person is or was a director or officer of the corporation. For purposes of this Section 6.1, a "director" or "officer" of the corporation shall mean any person
 
(i) who is or was a director or officer of the corporation, (ii) who is or was serving at the request of the corporation as a director or officer of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, or (iii) who was a director or officer of a corporation which was a predecessor corporation of the corporation or of another enterprise at the request of such predecessor corporation.
The corporation shall be required to indemnify a director or officer in connection with an action, suit, or proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such director or officer only if the initiation of such action, suit, or proceeding (or part thereof) by the director or officer was authorized by the board of directors of the corporation.
The corporation shall pay the expenses (including attorney's fees) incurred by a director or officer of the corporation entitled to indemnification hereunder in defending any action, suit or proceeding referred to in this Section 6.1 in advance of its final disposition; provided, however, that payment of expenses incurred by a director or officer of the corporation in advance of the final disposition of such action, suit or proceeding shall be made only upon receipt of an undertaking by the director or officer to repay all amounts advanced if it should ultimately be determined that the director or officer is not entitled to be indemnified under this Section 6.1 or otherwise.
The rights conferred on any person by this Article shall not be exclusive of any other rights which such person may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, provision of the corporation's Certificate of Incorporation, these bylaws, agreement, vote of the stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise.
Any repeal or modification of the foregoing provisions of this Article shall not adversely affect any right or protection hereunder of any person in respect of any act or omission occurring prior to the time of such repeal or modification.
6.2 .
INDEMNIFICATION OF OTHERS
The corporation shall have the power, to the maximum extent and in the manner permitted by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware as the same now exists or may hereafter be amended, to indemnify any person (other than directors and officers) against expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines, and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred in connection with any threatened, pending or completed action, suit, or proceeding, in which such person was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party by reason of the fact that such person is or was an employee or agent of the corporation. For purposes of this Section 6.2, an "employee" or "agent" of the corporation (other than a director or officer) shall mean any person (i) who is or was an employee or agent of the corporation, (ii) who is or was serving at the request of the corporation as an employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, or (iii) who was an employee or agent of a corporation which was a predecessor corporation of the corporation or of another enterprise at the request of such predecessor corporation.
 
6.3 .
INSURANCE
The corporation may purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person who is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any liability asserted against him or her and incurred by him or her in any such capacity, or arising out of his or her status as such, whether or not the corporation would have the power to indemnify him or her against such liability under the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
7.1 .
MAINTENANCE AND INSPECTION OF RECORDS
The corporation shall, either at its principal executive office or at such place or places as designated by the board of directors, keep a record of its stockholders listing their names and addresses and the number and class of shares held by each stockholder, a copy of these bylaws as amended to date, accounting books and other records of its business and properties.
Any stockholder of record, in person or by attorney or other agent, shall, upon written demand under oath stating the purpose thereof, have the right during the usual hours for business to inspect for any proper purpose the corporation's stock ledger, a list of its stockholders, and its other books and records and to make copies or extracts therefrom. A proper purpose shall mean a purpose reasonably related to such person's interest as a stockholder. In every instance where an attorney or other agent is the person who seeks the right to inspection, the demand under oath shall be accompanied by a power of attorney or such other writing that authorizes the attorney or other agent to so act on behalf of the stockholder. The demand under oath shall be directed to the corporation at its registered office in Delaware or at its principal place of business.
7.2 .
INSPECTION BY DIRECTORS
Any director shall have the right to examine the corporation's stock ledger, a list of its stockholders and its other books and records for a purpose reasonably related to his or her position as a director.
7.3 .
REPRESENTATION OF SHARES OF OTHER CORPORATIONS
The chairman of the board, if any, the chief executive officer, the president, any vice president, the chief financial officer, the secretary or any assistant secretary of the corporation, or any other person authorized by the board of directors or the president or a vice president, is authorized to vote, represent and exercise on behalf of this corporation all rights incident to any and all shares of the stock of any other corporation or corporations standing in the name of this corporation. The authority herein granted may be exercised either by such person directly or by any other person authorized to do so by proxy or power of attorney duly executed by such person having the authority.
 
7.4 .
CERTIFICATION AND INSPECTION OF BYLAWS
The original or a copy of these bylaws, as amended or otherwise altered to date, certified by the secretary of the corporation, shall be kept at the corporation's principal executive office and shall be open to inspection by the stockholders of the corporation, at all reasonable times during office hours.
8.1 .
RECORD DATE FOR PURPOSES OTHER THAN NOTICE AND VOTING
For purposes of determining the stockholders entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights or the stockholders entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock, or for the purpose of any other lawful action other than as provided for in Article II of these bylaws, the board of directors may fix a record date, which shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted and which shall not be more than sixty (60) calendar days before any such action. In that case, only stockholders of record at the close of business on the date so fixed are entitled to receive the dividend, distribution or allotment of rights, or to exercise such rights, as the case may be, notwithstanding any transfer of any shares on the books of the corporation after the record date so fixed, except as otherwise provided by law.
If the board of directors does not so fix a record date, then the record date for determining stockholders for any such purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the board of directors adopts the applicable resolution.
8.2 .
CHECKS; DRAFTS; EVIDENCES OF INDEBTEDNESS
From time to time, the board of directors shall determine by resolution which person or persons may sign or endorse all checks, drafts, other orders for payment of money, notes or other evidences of indebtedness that are issued in the name of or payable to the corporation, and only the persons so authorized shall sign or endorse those instruments.
8.3 .
CORPORATE CONTRACTS AND INSTRUMENTS: HOW EXECUTED
The board of directors, except as otherwise provided in these bylaws, may authorize and empower any officer or officers, or agent or agents, to enter into any contract or execute any instrument in the name of and on behalf of the corporation; such power and authority may be general or confined to specific instances. Unless so authorized or ratified by the board of directors or within the agency power of an officer, no officer, agent or employee shall have any power or authority to bind the corporation by any contract or engagement or to pledge its credit or to render it liable for any purpose or for any amount.
 
8.4 .
STOCK CERTIFICATES; TRANSFER; PARTLY PAID SHARES
The shares of the corporation shall be represented by certificates, provided that the board of directors of the corporation may provide by resolution or resolutions that some or all of any or all classes or series of its stock shall be uncertificated shares. Any such resolution shall not apply to shares represented by a certificate until such certificate is surrendered to the corporation. Notwithstanding the adoption of such a resolution by the board of directors, every holder of stock represented by certificates and, upon request, every holder of uncertificated shares, shall be entitled to have a certificate signed by, or in the name of the corporation by, the chairman or vice-chairman of the board of directors, or the president or vice-president, and by the treasurer or an assistant treasurer, or the secretary or an assistant secretary of the corporation representing the number of shares registered in certificate form. Any or all of the signatures on the certificate may be a facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate has ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the corporation with the same effect as if he or she were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue.
Certificates for shares shall be of such form and device as the board of directors may designate and shall state the name of the record holder of the shares represented thereby; its number; date of issuance; the number of shares for which it is issued; a summary statement or reference to the powers, designations, preferences or other special rights of such stock and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights, if any; a statement or summary of liens, if any; a conspicuous notice of restrictions upon transfer or registration of transfer, if any; a statement as to any applicable voting trust agreement; if the shares be assessable, or, if assessments are collectible by personal action, a plain statement of such facts.
Stock of the corporation shall be transferable in the manner prescribed by law and in these Bylaws. Transfers of stock shall be made on the books of the corporation only by the record holder of such stock or by his or her attorney lawfully constituted in writing and, if such stock is certificated, upon the surrender of the certificate to the secretary of the corporation or transfer agent therefor, which shall be canceled before a new certificate shall be issued.
The corporation may issue the whole or any part of its shares as partly paid and subject to call for the remainder of the consideration to be paid therefor. Upon the face or back of each stock certificate issued to represent any such partly paid shares, or upon the books and records of the corporation in the case of uncertificated partly paid shares, the total amount of the consideration to be paid therefor and the amount paid thereon shall be stated. Upon the declaration of any dividend on fully paid shares, the corporation shall declare a dividend upon partly paid shares of the same class, but only upon the basis of the percentage of the consideration actually paid thereon.
8.5 .
SPECIAL DESIGNATION ON CERTIFICATES
If the corporation is authorized to issue more than one class of stock or more than one series of any class, then the powers, the designations, the preferences and the relative, participating, optional or other special rights of each class of stock or series thereof and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights shall be set forth in full or summarized on
 
the face or back of the certificate that the corporation shall issue to represent such class or series of stock; provided, however, that, except as otherwise provided in Section 202 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, in lieu of the foregoing requirements there may be set forth on the face or back of the certificate that the corporation shall issue to represent such class or series of stock a statement that the corporation will furnish without charge to each stockholder who so requests the powers, the designations, the preferences and the relative, participating, optional or other special rights of each class of stock or series thereof and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights.
8.6 .
LOST CERTIFICATES
Except as provided in this Section 8.6, no new certificates for shares shall be issued to replace a previously issued certificate unless the latter is surrendered to the corporation and cancelled at the same time. The board of directors may, in case any share certificate or certificate for any other security is lost, stolen or destroyed, authorize the issuance of replacement certificates on such terms and conditions as the board may require; the board may require indemnification of the corporation secured by a bond or other adequate security sufficient to protect the corporation against any claim that may be made against it, including any expense or liability, on account of the alleged loss, theft or destruction of the certificate or the issuance of the replacement certificate.
8.7 .
TRANSFER AGENTS AND REGISTRARS
The board of directors may appoint one or more transfer agents or transfer clerks, and one or more registrars, each of which shall be an incorporated bank or trust company  either domestic or foreign, who shall be appointed at such times and places as the requirements of the corporation may necessitate and the board of directors may designate.
8.8 .
CONSTRUCTION; DEFINITIONS
Unless the context requires otherwise, the general provisions, rules of construction and definitions in the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware shall govern the construction of these bylaws. Without limiting the generality of this provision, as used in these bylaws, the singular number includes the plural, the plural number includes the singular, and the term "person" includes both an entity and a natural person.
The bylaws of the corporation may be adopted, amended or repealed by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of stock entitled to vote thereon, or by the board of directors.
 
Whenever an amendment or new bylaw is adopted, it shall be copied in the book of bylaws with the original bylaws, in the appropriate place. If any bylaw is repealed, the fact of repeal with the date of the meeting at which the repeal was enacted or the filing of the operative written consent(s) shall be stated in said book.
 

 
Exhibit 10.1
1) . This Autodesk, Inc. Executive Incentive Plan sets forth the plan for payment of cash bonuses to those executive officers of the Company designated for participation and is intended to increase stockholder value and the success of the Company by motivating executives to perform to the best of their abilities and to achieve the Company's objectives. The Plan's goals are to be achieved by providing such executives with incentive awards based on the achievement of goals relating to the performance of the Company or one of its business units or upon the achievement of objectively determinable performance goals. The Plan is intended to permit the payment of bonuses that may qualify as Performance-Based Compensation as well as of bonuses which are not intended to qualify as Performance-Based Compensation.
Purposes of the Plan
2) .
Definitions
(a) "" means the Company's or a business unit's net sales for the Fiscal Year, determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Annual Revenue
(b) "" means, with respect to each Participant, the award determined pursuant to Section 8(a) below for a Performance Period. Each Award is determined by a Payout Formula for a Performance Period, subject to the Committee's authority under Section 8(a) to eliminate or reduce the Award otherwise payable.
Award
(c) "" means, as to any Performance Period, the Participant's annualized salary rate on the last day of the Performance Period. Such Base Salary shall be before both (a) deductions for taxes or benefits, and (b) deferrals of compensation pursuant to Company-sponsored plans.
Base Salary
(d) "" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
Board
(e) "" means the Company's level of cash and cash equivalents.
Cash Position
(f) "" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
(g) "" means the Compensation and Human Resources Committee of the Board, or a sub-committee of the Compensation and Human Resources Committee, which shall, with respect to payments hereunder intended to qualify as performance-based compensation under Code Section 162(m), consist solely of two or more members of the Board who are not employees of the Company and who otherwise qualify as "outside directors" within the meaning of Section 162(m).
Committee
(h) "" means Autodesk, Inc. or any of its subsidiaries (as such term is defined in Code Section 424(f)).
Company
(i) "" means, as to any Fiscal Year, the Company's or a business unit's Net Income, divided by a weighted average number of common shares outstanding and dilutive common equivalent shares deemed outstanding, determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Earnings Per Share
(j) "" means a fiscal year of the Company.
Fiscal Year
(k) "" means as to any Participant for any Performance Period, $4 million.
Maximum Award
(l) "" means, as to any Fiscal Year, the income after taxes of the Company for the Fiscal Year determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Net Income
 
(m) "" means the Company's or a business unit's sum of Net Income plus depreciation and amortization less capital expenditures plus changes in working capital comprised of accounts receivable, inventories, other current assets, trade accounts payable, accrued expenses, product warranty, advance payments from customers and long-term accrued expenses, determined in accordance with generally acceptable accounting principles.
Operating Cash Flow
(n) "" means the ratio of Operating Income to Annual Revenue.
Operating Margins
(o) "" means the Company's or a business unit's income from operations determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Operating Income
(p) "" means an eligible executive or key employee of the Company selected by the Committee, in its sole discretion, to participate in the Plan for a Performance Period.
Participant
(q) "" means the date upon which the Committee determines the amounts payable pursuant to the Target Award and Payout Formula with respect to any previously completed Performance Period, in accordance with Section 8(a).
Payout Determination Date
(r) "" means, as to any Performance Period, the formula or payout matrix established by the Committee pursuant to Section 7 in order to determine the Awards (if any) to be paid to Participants, which is generally expressed as a percentage (which may be more than 100%) of the Target Award. The formula or matrix may differ from Participant to Participant.
Payout Formula
(s) "" means compensation that is intended to qualify as "performance-based compensation" within the meaning of Section 162(m).
Performance-Based Compensation
(t) "" means the goal(s) (or combined goal(s)) determined by the Committee (in its discretion) to be applicable to a Participant with respect to an Award. As determined by the Committee, the Performance Goals applicable to an Award may provide for a targeted level or levels of achievement using one or more of the following measures: (a) Annual Revenue, (b) Cash Position, (c) Earnings Per Share, (d) Net Income, (e) Operating Cash Flow, (f) Operating Margins, (g) Operating Income, (h) Return on Assets, (i) Return on Equity, (j) Return on Sales and (k) Total Stockholder Return, or such similar objectively determinable financial or other measures as may be adopted by the Committee. The Performance Goals may be based on absolute target numbers or growth in one or more such categories compared to a prior period. The measures which constitute the Performance Goals may, at the discretion of the Committee, be based on Pro Forma numbers and may, as the Committee specifies, either include or exclude the effect of payment of the bonuses under this Plan and any other bonus plans of the Company. The Performance Goals may differ from Participant to Participant and from Award to Award. In establishing a Performance Goal on the Target Determination Date, the Committee may provide that the attainment of the Performance Goal shall be measured by appropriately adjusting the evaluation of Performance Goal performance to exclude (i) any extraordinary non-recurring items as described in Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 30 and/or in management's discussion and analysis of financial conditions and results of operations appearing in the Company's annual report to stockholders for the applicable year, or (ii) the effect of any changes in accounting principles affecting the Company's or a business unit's reported results.
Performance Goals
(u) "" means any Fiscal Year or such other period as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion.
Performance Period
(v) "" means this Autodesk, Inc. Executive Incentive Plan.
Plan
(w) "" means the Company's fiscal year.
Plan Year
 
 
(x) "" means calculation of a Performance Goal in a manner that excludes extraordinary or one-time expenses or credits, such as restructuring expenses, extraordinary tax events, expenses or credits related to stock options and/or other equity compensation or the like, instead of conforming to generally accepted accounting principles.
Pro Forma
(y) "" means the percentage equal to the Company's or a business unit's Operating Income before incentive compensation, divided by average net Company or business unit, as applicable, assets, determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Return on Assets
(z) "" means the percentage equal to the Company's Net Income divided by average stockholder's equity, determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Return on Equity
(aa) "" means the percentage equal to the Company's or a business unit's Operating Income before incentive compensation, divided by the Company's or the business unit's, as applicable, revenue, determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Return on Sales
(bb) "" means Section 162(m) of the Code, or any successor to Section 162(m), as that Section may be interpreted from time to time by the Internal Revenue Service, whether by regulation, notice or otherwise.
Section 162(m)
(cc) "" means the target award payable under the Plan to a Participant for the Performance Period, expressed as a percentage of his or her Base Salary or a specific dollar amount, as determined by the Committee in accordance with Section 6.
Target Award
(dd) "" means the latest possible date that will not jeopardize a Target Award's qualification as Performance-Based Compensation.
Target Determination Cutoff Date
(ee) "" means the date upon which the Committee sets the Target Award and Payout Formula with respect to any Performance Period, in accordance with Section 7.
Target Determination Date
(ff) "" means the total return (change in share price plus reinvestment of any dividends) of a share of the Company's common stock.
Total Stockholder Return
3) .
Plan Administration
(a) The Committee shall be responsible for the general administration and interpretation of the Plan and for carrying out its provisions. Subject to the requirements for qualifying compensation as Performance-Based Compensation, the Committee may delegate specific administrative tasks to Company employees or others as appropriate for proper administration of the Plan. Subject to the limitations on Committee discretion imposed under Section 162(m) to the extent the Committee intends that bonuses payable hereunder constitute performance-based compensation under Section 162(m), the Committee shall have such powers as may be necessary to discharge its duties hereunder, including, but not by way of limitation, the following powers and duties, but subject to the terms of the Plan:
i) discretionary authority to adopt Target Awards and Payout Formulae under this Plan for a given Performance Period on or prior to the Target Determination Cutoff Date;
ii) discretionary authority to construe and interpret the terms of the Plan, and to determine eligibility, Awards and the amount, manner and time of payment of any Awards hereunder;
iii) to prescribe forms and procedures for purposes of Plan participation and distribution of Awards; and
iv) to adopt rules, regulations and bylaws and to take such actions as it deems necessary or desirable for the proper administration of the Plan.
(b) Any rule or decision by the Committee that is not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan shall be conclusive and binding on all persons, and shall be given the maximum deference permitted by law.
4) . The employees eligible to participate in the Plan for a given Performance Period shall be determined by the Committee, and are generally expected to include executive officers of the Company who are subject to Section 16 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 and any other key employees who are specifically designated by the Committee for participation in the Plan in its sole discretion. Executives who earn sales commissions are generally not included in the Plan. Unless specifically excepted, a Participant must be actively employed on the last day of the Performance Period to be eligible to receive a payment hereunder. No person shall be automatically entitled to participate in the Plan.
Eligibility
5) . On the Target Determination Date, the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall establish the Performance Goals for each Participant for the Performance Period. Such Performance Goals shall be set forth in writing on or prior to the Target Determination Cutoff Date.
Performance Goal Determination
6) . On the Target Determination Date, the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall establish a Target Award for each Participant. Each Participant's Target Award shall be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion, and each Target Award shall be set forth in writing on or prior to the Target Determination Cutoff Date.
Target Award Determination
7) . On the Target Determination Date, the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall establish a Payout Formula for purposes of determining the Award (if any) payable to each Participant. Each Payout Formula (a) shall be set forth in writing on or prior to the Target Determination Cutoff Date, (b) shall provide for the payment of a Participant's Award if the Performance Goals for the Performance Period are achieved, and (c) may provide for an Award payment greater than or less than the Participant's Target Award, depending upon the extent to which the Performance Goals are achieved. Notwithstanding the preceding, in no event shall a Participant's Award for any Performance Period exceed the Maximum Award.
Determination of Payout Formula
8) .
Payout Determination; Award Payment
(a) . On the Payout Determination Date, the Committee shall certify in writing (which may be by approval of the minutes in which the certification was made) the extent to which the Performance Goals applicable to each Participant for the Performance Period were achieved or exceeded. The Award for each Participant shall be determined by applying the Payout Formula to the level of actual performance that has been certified by the Committee. Notwithstanding any contrary provision of the Plan, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may eliminate or reduce the Award payable to any Participant below that which otherwise would be payable under the Payout Formula.
Payout Determination and Certification
(b) . Each Award under the Plan shall be paid solely from the general assets of the Company. Nothing in this Plan shall be construed to create a trust or to establish or evidence any Participant's claim of any right to payment of an Award other than as an unsecured general creditor with respect to any payment to which he or she may be entitled.
Right to Receive Payment
(c) . The Company shall distribute all Awards to the Participant in cash.
Form of Distributions
(d) . Subject to Section 8(e) below, the Company shall distribute amounts payable to Participants as soon as is practicable following the determination and written certification of the Award for a Performance Period, but in no event later than 2
Timing of Distributions
 1
/
2
months after the end of the applicable Performance Period.
(e) . The Committee may defer payment of Awards, or any portion thereof, to Participants as the Committee, in its discretion, determines to be necessary or desirable to preserve the deductibility of such
Deferral
 
 
amounts under Section 162(m). In addition, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may permit a Participant to defer receipt of the payment of cash that would otherwise be delivered to a Participant under the Plan. Any such deferral elections shall be subject to such rules and procedures as shall be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion.
9) . Notwithstanding and without regard to any other provision in this Plan, the Committee may determine to pay cash bonuses hereunder that are not intended to constitute Performance-Based Compensation and which shall be payable pursuant to such terms and conditions as the Committee may determine in its sole discretion; provided, however, that in no event shall payment of a bonus hereunder that is not intended to be Performance-Based Compensation be contingent upon failure to achieve the performance goals under an otherwise performance-based arrangement, in accordance with Section 1.162-27(e)(2)(v) of the regulations promulgated under Section 162(m).
Non-Performance-Based Compensation Bonuses
10) . The Plan was approved by the Company's stockholders on June 23, 2005, and shall continue until terminated under Section 11 of the Plan.
Term of Plan
11) . The Committee may amend, modify, suspend or terminate the Plan, in whole or in part, at any time, including adopting amendments deemed necessary or desirable to correct any defect or to supply omitted data or to reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan or in any Award granted hereunder; provided, however, that no amendment, alteration, suspension or discontinuation shall be made which would (i) impair any payments to Participants made prior to such amendment, modification, suspension or termination, unless the Committee has made a determination that such amendment or modification is in the best interests of all persons to whom Awards have theretofore been granted; provided further, however, that in no event may such an amendment or modification result in an increase in the amount of compensation payable pursuant to such Award or (ii) cause compensation that is, or may become, payable hereunder to fail to qualify as Performance-Based Compensation. To the extent necessary or advisable under applicable law, including Section 162(m), Plan amendments shall be subject to stockholder approval. At no time before the actual distribution of funds to Participants under the Plan shall any Participant accrue any vested interest or right whatsoever under the Plan except as otherwise stated in this Plan.
Amendment and Termination of the Plan
12) . Distributions pursuant to this Plan shall be subject to all applicable federal and state tax and withholding requirements.
Withholding
13) . No statement in this Plan should be construed to grant any employee an employment contract of fixed duration or any other contractual rights, nor should this Plan be interpreted as creating an implied or an expressed contract of employment or any other contractual rights between the Company and its employees. The employment relationship between the Company and its employees is terminable at-will. This means that an employee of the Company may terminate the employment relationship at any time and for any reason or no reason.
At-Will Employment
14) . All obligations of the Company under the Plan, with respect to awards granted hereunder, shall be binding on any successor to the Company, whether the existence of such successor is the result of a direct or indirect purchase, merger, consolidation, or otherwise, of all or substantially all of the business or assets of the Company.
Successors
15) . Each person who is or shall have been a member of the Committee, or of the Board, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Company against and from (a) any loss, cost, liability, or expense that may be imposed upon or reasonably incurred by him or her in connection with or resulting from any claim, action, suit, or proceeding to which he or she may be a party or in which he or she may be involved by reason of any action taken or failure to act under the Plan or any award, and (b) from any and all amounts paid by him or her in settlement thereof, with the Company's approval, or paid by him or her in satisfaction of any judgment in any such claim, action, suit, or proceeding against him or her, provided he or she shall give the Company an opportunity, at its own expense, to handle and defend the same before he or she undertakes to handle and defend
Indemnification
it on his or her own behalf. The foregoing right of indemnification shall not be exclusive of any other rights of indemnification to which such persons may be entitled under the Company's Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws, by contract, as a matter of law, or otherwise, or under any power that the Company may have to indemnify them or hold them harmless.
16) . The rights of a Participant under this Plan shall not be assignable or transferable by the Participant except by will or the laws of intestacy.
Nonassignment
17) . The Plan shall be governed by the laws of the State of California.
Governing Law
 

 
Exhibit 10.2
1. . The purposes of this 2008 Employee Stock Plan are:
Purposes of the Plan
 
 
 
Awards granted under the Plan may be Incentive Stock Options, Nonstatutory Stock Options, Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units as determined by the Administrator at the time of grant.
2. . As used herein, the following definitions shall apply:
Definitions
(a) "" means the Board or any of its Committees as shall be administering the Plan, in accordance with Section 4 of the Plan.
Administrator
(b) "" means the requirements relating to the administration of equity compensation plans under U.S. state corporate laws, U.S. federal and state securities laws, the Code, any stock exchange or quotation system on which the Shares are listed or quoted and the applicable laws of any other country or jurisdiction where Awards are granted under the Plan.
Applicable Laws
(c) "" means, individually or collectively, a grant under the Plan of Incentive Stock Options, Nonqualified Stock Options, Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units.
Award
(d) "" means the written agreement setting forth the terms and conditions applicable to each Award granted under the Plan.
Award Agreement
(e) "" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
Board
(f) "" means the occurrence of any of the following events, in one or a series of related transactions:
Change of Control
(i) any "person," as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act, other than the Company, a subsidiary of the Company or a Company employee benefit plan, including any trustee of such plan acting as trustee, is or becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing fifty percent (50%) or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors; or
(ii) a merger or consolidation of the Company or any direct or indirect subsidiary of the Company with any other corporation, other than a merger or consolidation which would result in the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity) at least fifty percent (50%) of the total voting power represented by the voting securities of the Company or such surviving entity outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation; or
 
(iii) the sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all the Company's assets; or
(iv) a change in the composition of the Board, as a result of which fewer than a majority of the Directors are Incumbent Directors. "Incumbent Directors" shall mean Directors who either (A) are Directors as of the date this Plan is approved by the Board, or (B) are elected, or nominated for election, to the Board with the affirmative votes of at least a majority of the Directors and whose election or nomination was not in connection with any transaction described in (i) or (ii) above or in connection with an actual or threatened proxy contest relating to the election of directors of the Company.
(g) "" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Reference to a specific section of the Code or regulation thereunder shall include such section or regulation, any valid regulation promulgated under such section, and any comparable provision of any future legislation or regulation amending, supplementing or superseding such section or regulation.
Code
(h) "" means a Committee appointed by the Board in accordance with Section 4 of the Plan.
Committee
(i) "" means the Common Stock of the Company.
Common Stock
(j) "" means Autodesk, Inc., a Delaware corporation, or any successor thereto.
Company
(k) "" means, with respect to an Award, the date that the Award is granted and its exercise price is set (if applicable), consistent with Applicable Laws and applicable financial accounting rules.
Date of Grant
(l) "" means a member of the Board.
Director
(m) "" means total and permanent disability as defined in Section 22(e)(3) of the Code.
Disability
(n) "" means, as to any Performance Period, the Company's or a business unit's fully diluted earnings per share as defined by generally accepted accounting principles.
Earnings Per Share
(o) "" means June 10, 2010.
Effective Date
(p) "" means any person employed by the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary of the Company. An Employee shall not cease to be an Employee in the case of (i) any leave of absence approved by the Company or (ii) transfers between locations of the Company or between the Company, its Parent, any Subsidiary, or any successor. For purposes of Incentive Stock Options, no such leave may exceed ninety days, unless reemployment upon expiration of such leave is guaranteed by statute or contract. If reemployment upon expiration of a leave of absence approved by the Company is not so guaranteed, then three (3) months following the 91
Employee
st
day of such leave any Incentive Stock Option held by the Participant shall cease to be treated as an Incentive Stock Option and shall be treated for tax purposes as a Nonstatutory Stock Option.
(q) "" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Reference to a specific section of the Exchange Act or regulation thereunder shall include such section or regulation, any valid regulation promulgated under such section, and any comparable provision of any future legislation or regulation amending, supplementing or superseding such section or regulation.
Exchange Act
(r) "" means, as of any date, the value of Common Stock determined as follows:
Fair Market Value
(i) If the Common Stock is listed on any established stock exchange or a national market system, including without limitation the Nasdaq National Market of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotation ("Nasdaq") System, the Fair Market Value of a Share of Common Stock shall be the closing sales price for such stock (or the closing bid, if no sales were reported) as quoted on such system or exchange (or the exchange with the greatest volume of trading in Common Stock) on the day of determination, as reported in or such other source as the Administrator deems reliable; or
The Wall Street Journal
 
 
(ii) In the absence of an established market for the Common Stock, the Fair Market Value shall be determined in good faith by the Administrator.
(s) "" means a fiscal year of the Company.
Fiscal Year
(t) "" means an Option intended to qualify as an incentive stock option within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder.
Incentive Stock Option
(u) "" means, as to any Performance Period, the net income of the Company for the Performance Period determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Net Income
(v) "" means an Option not intended to qualify as an Incentive Stock Option.
Nonstatutory Stock Option
(w) "" means a written or electronic notice evidencing certain terms and conditions of an individual Award. The Notice of Grant is part of the Award Agreement.
Notice of Grant
(x) "" means the ratio of Operating Income to Revenue.
Operating Margins
(y) "" means the Company's or a business unit's income from operations determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Operating Income
(z) "" means a stock option granted pursuant to the Plan.
Option
(aa) "" means a written or electronic agreement between the Company and a Participant evidencing the terms and conditions of an individual Option grant. The Option Agreement is subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan.
Option Agreement
(bb) "" means a "parent corporation", whether now or hereafter existing, as defined in Section 424(e) of the Code.
Parent
(cc) "" means the holder of an outstanding Award granted under the Plan.
Participant
(dd) "" means the goal(s) (or combined goal(s)) determined by the Administrator (in its discretion) to be applicable to a Participant with respect to an Award. As determined by the Administrator, the Performance Goals applicable to an Award may provide for a targeted level or levels of achievement using one or more of the following measures: (a) Revenue, (b) Earnings Per Share, (c) Net Income, (d) Operating Margins, and (e) Total Stockholder Return. The Performance Goals may differ from Participant to Participant and from Award to Award. Any criteria used may be measured, as applicable, (i) on Pro Forma numbers, (ii) in absolute terms, (iii) in relative terms (including, but not limited, the passage of time and/or against other companies or financial metrics), (iv) on a per share and/or share per capita basis, (v) against the performance of the Company as a whole or against particular segments or products of the Company and/or (vi) on a pre-tax or after-tax basis. Prior to the Determination Date, the Administrator shall determine whether any element(s) (for example, but not by way of limitation, the effect of mergers or acquisitions) shall be included in or excluded from the calculation of any Performance Goal with respect to any Participants (whether or not such determinations result in any Performance Goal being measured on a basis other than generally accepted accounting principles).
Performance Goals
(ee) "" means any Fiscal Year or such longer period as determined by the Administrator in its sole discretion.
Performance Period
(ff) "" means the period during which the transfer of Shares of Restricted Stock are subject to restrictions and therefore, the Shares are subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture. As provided in Section 9, such restrictions may be based on the passage of time, the achievement of target levels of performance, or the occurrence of other events as determined by the Administrator, in its discretion.
Period of Restriction
(gg) "" means this 2008 Employee Stock Plan, as set forth in this instrument and as hereafter amended from time to time.
Plan
(hh) "" means calculation of a Performance Goal in a manner that excludes certain unusual or non-cash expenses or credits, such as restructuring expenses, extraordinary tax events, expenses or credits related to stock options, other equity compensation or the like, acquisition related expenses, extraordinary items, income or loss from discontinued operations, and/or gains or losses from early extinguishment of debt instead of conforming to generally accepted accounting principles.
Pro Forma
(ii) "" means an Award granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 9.
Restricted Stock
(jj) "" means an Award granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 10.
Restricted Stock Unit
(kk) "" means the Company's or a business unit's net sales for the Performance Period, determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Revenue
(ll) "" means Rule 16b-3 of the Exchange Act or any successor to Rule 16b-3, as in effect when discretion is being exercised with respect to the Plan.
Rule 16b-3
(mm) "" means Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Section 16(b)
(nn) "" means a share of the Common Stock, as adjusted in accordance with Section 13 of the Plan.
Share
(oo) "" means a "subsidiary corporation", whether now or hereafter existing, as defined in Section 424(f) of the Code.
Subsidiary
(pp) "" means the total return (change in share price plus reinvestment of any dividends) of a share of the Company's common stock.
Total Stockholder Return
3. .
Stock Subject to the Plan
(a) Subject to the provisions of Section 13 of the Plan, the maximum aggregate number of Shares which may be issued under the Plan is equal to 15,500,000 Shares plus that number of shares remaining for issuance under the 2008 Plan as of June [    ], 2010, not to exceed 500,000 shares. No more than 2,500,000 of the Shares available under the Plan may be issued pursuant to Awards that are not Options.
(b) The Shares may be authorized, but unissued, or reacquired Common Stock. If an Award expires or becomes unexercisable without having been exercised in full, or with respect to Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units, is forfeited to or repurchased by the Company, the unpurchased Shares (or for Awards other than Options, the forfeited or repurchased Shares) which were subject thereto will become available for future grant or sale under the Plan (unless the Plan has terminated). Shares that have actually been issued under the Plan under any Award will not be returned to the Plan and will not become available for future distribution under the Plan; provided, however, that if unvested Shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units are repurchased by the Company or are forfeited to the Company, such Shares will become available for future grant under the Plan. Shares used to pay the tax and exercise price of an Award will not become available for future grant or sale under the Plan. To the extent an Award under the Plan is paid out in cash rather than Shares, such cash payment will not result in reducing the number of Shares available for issuance under the Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing and, subject to adjustment provided in Section 13, the maximum number of Shares that may be issued upon the exercise of Incentive Stock Options shall equal the aggregate Share number stated in this Section 3(a), plus, to the extent allowable under Section 422 of the Code, any Shares that become available for issuance under the Plan under this Section 3(b).
 
 
4. .
Administration of the Plan
(a) .
Procedure
(i) . The Plan may be administered by different Committees with respect to different groups of Employees.
Multiple Administrative Bodies
(ii) . To the extent that the Administrator determines it to be desirable to qualify Awards granted hereunder as "performance-based compensation" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code, the Plan shall be administered by a Committee of two or more "outside directors" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code.
Section 162(m)
(iii) . To the extent desirable to qualify transactions hereunder as exempt under Rule 16b-3, the transactions contemplated hereunder shall be structured to satisfy the requirements for exemption under Rule 16b-3.
Rule 16b-3
(iv) . Other than as provided above, the Plan shall be administered by (A) the Board or (B) a Committee, which committee shall be constituted to satisfy Applicable Laws.
Other Administration
(b) . Subject to the provisions of the Plan, and in the case of a Committee, subject to the specific duties delegated by the Board to such Committee, the Administrator shall have the authority, in its discretion:
Powers of the Administrator
(i) to determine the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock, in accordance with Section 2(r) of the Plan;
(ii) to select the Employees to whom Awards may be granted hereunder;
(iii) to determine whether and to what extent Awards are granted hereunder;
(iv) to determine the number of Shares to be covered by each Award granted hereunder;
(v) to approve forms of agreement for use under the Plan;
(vi) to determine the terms and conditions, not inconsistent with the terms of the Plan, of any Award granted hereunder. With respect to Options, such terms and conditions include, but are not limited to, the exercise price, the time or times when Options may be exercised, based in each case on such factors as the Administrator, in its sole discretion, shall determine;
(vii) to construe and interpret the terms of the Plan and Awards granted hereunder;
(viii) to prescribe, amend and rescind rules and regulations relating to the Plan, including rules and regulations relating to sub-plans established for the purpose of qualifying for preferred tax treatment under foreign tax laws;
(ix) to modify or amend each Award (not inconsistent with the terms of the Plan), including the discretionary authority to extend the post-termination exercisability period of Options longer than is otherwise provided for in the Plan;
(x) to authorize any person to execute on behalf of the Company any instrument required to effect the grant of an Award previously granted by the Administrator;
(xi) to allow Participants to satisfy withholding tax obligations by electing to have the Company withhold from the Shares to be issued upon exercise or vesting of an Award that number of Shares having a Fair Market Value equal to the minimum amount required to be withheld (but no more). The Fair Market Value of any Shares to be withheld shall be determined on the date that the amount of tax to be withheld is to be determined. All elections by a Participant to have Shares withheld for this purpose shall be made in such form and under such conditions as the Administrator may deem necessary or advisable;
(xii) to determine the terms and restrictions applicable to Awards; and
(xiii) to make all other determinations deemed necessary or advisable for administering the Plan.
(c) . The Administrator's decisions, determinations and interpretations shall be final and binding on all Participants and any other holders of Awards and shall be given the maximum deference permitted by law.
Effect of Administrator's Decision
5. . Awards may be granted only to Employees.
Eligibility
6. . Neither the Plan nor any Award shall confer upon a Participant any right with respect to continuing the Participant's employment with the Company or its Subsidiaries, nor shall they interfere in any way with the Participant's right or the Company's or Subsidiary's right, as the case may be, to terminate such employment at any time, with or without cause or notice.
No Employment Rights
7. . The Plan, as amended and restated, shall become effective on June 10, 2010 and continue in effect until June 30, 2013, expiring at the close of business, pacific daylight time, on June 30, 2013.
Term of Plan
8. .
Stock Options
(a) . Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan, Options may be granted to Employees at any time and from time to time as determined by the Administrator in its sole discretion. The Administrator, in its sole discretion, shall determine the number of Shares subject to each Option, provided that during any Fiscal Year, no Participant shall be granted Options covering more than a total of 1,500,000 Shares; , that such limit shall be 3,000,000 Shares in the Participant's first Fiscal Year of Company service. The Administrator may grant Incentive Stock Options, Nonstatutory Stock Options, or a combination thereof.
Grant of Options
provided, however
(b) . The term of each Option shall be stated in the Notice of Grant; , that the term shall be no longer than ten (10) years from the Date of Grant. Moreover, in the case of an Incentive Stock Option granted to a Participant who, at the time the Incentive Stock Option is granted, owns stock representing more than ten percent (10%) of the voting power of all classes of stock of the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary, the term of the Incentive Stock Option shall be no longer than five (5) years from the Date of Grant. Subject to the five (5) and ten (10) years limits set forth in the preceding sentence, the Administrator may, after an Option is granted, extend the maximum term of the Option. Unless otherwise determined by the Administrator, any extension of the term of an Option pursuant to this Section 8(b) shall comply with Code Section 409A.
Term
provided, however
(c) . The per share exercise price for the Shares to be issued pursuant to exercise of an Option shall be determined by the Administrator and shall be no less than 100% of the Fair Market Value per share on the Date of Grant; , that in the case of an Incentive Stock Option granted to an Employee who, at the time the Incentive Stock Option is granted, owns stock representing more than ten percent (10%) of the voting power of all classes of stock of the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary, the per Share exercise price shall be no less than 110% of the Fair Market Value per Share on the Date of Grant.
Option Exercise Price
provided, however
Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that the Company or a Subsidiary consummates a transaction described in Section 424(a) of the Code (e.g., the acquisition of property or stock from an unrelated
 
 
corporation), persons who become Employees on account of such transaction may be granted Options in substitution for options granted by their former employer. If such substitute Options are granted, the Administrator, in its sole discretion and consistent with Section 424(a) of the Code, may determine that such substitute Options shall have an exercise price less than one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value of the Shares on the Date of Grant.
(d) . The exercise price for an Option may not be reduced without the consent of the Company's stockholders. This shall include, without limitation, a repricing of the Option as well as an Option exchange program whereby the Participant agrees to cancel an existing Option in exchange for (a) Awards with a lower exercise price, (b) a different type of Award, (c) cash, or (d) a combination of (a), (b) and/or (c).
No Repricing
(e) . At the time an Option is granted, the Administrator shall fix the period within which the Option may be exercised and shall determine any conditions which must be satisfied before the Option may be exercised. In so doing, the Administrator may specify that an Option may not be exercised until the completion of a service period or until performance milestones are satisfied.
Waiting Period and Exercise Dates
(f) . The Administrator shall determine the acceptable form of consideration for exercising an Option, including the method of payment. In the case of an Incentive Stock Option, the Administrator shall determine the acceptable form of consideration at the time of grant. Subject to Applicable Laws, such consideration may consist entirely of:
Form of Consideration
(i) cash;
(ii) check;
(iii) other Shares which (A) in the case of Shares acquired upon exercise of an option, have been owned by the Participant for more than six months on the date of surrender, and (B) have a Fair Market Value on the date of surrender equal to the aggregate exercise price of the Shares as to which said Option shall be exercised;
(iv) delivery to the Company of (A) a properly executed exercise notice together with such other documentation as the Administrator and the broker, if applicable, shall require to effect an exercise of the Option and (B) the sale proceeds required to pay the exercise price;
(v) any combination of the foregoing methods of payment; or
(vi) such other consideration and method of payment for the issuance of Shares to the extent permitted by Applicable Laws; provided, however, that in no case will loans be permitted as consideration for exercising an Option hereunder.
(g) . Any Option granted hereunder shall be exercisable according to the terms of the Plan and at such times and under such conditions as determined by the Administrator and set forth in the Option Agreement.
Exercise of Option; Rights as a Stockholder
An Option may not be exercised for a fraction of a Share.
An Option shall be deemed exercised when the Company receives: (i) written or electronic notice of exercise (in accordance with the Option Agreement) from the person entitled to exercise the Option, and (ii) full payment for the Shares with respect to which the Option is exercised. Full payment may consist of any consideration and method of payment authorized by the Administrator and permitted by the Option Agreement and the Plan. Shares issued upon exercise of an Option shall be issued in the name of the Participant. Until the stock certificate evidencing such Shares is issued (as evidenced by the appropriate entry on the books of the Company or of a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company), no right to vote or receive dividends or any
other rights as a stockholder shall exist with respect to the optioned stock, notwithstanding the exercise of the Option. The Company shall issue (or cause to be issued) such stock certificate promptly after the Option is exercised. No adjustment will be made for a dividend or other right for which the record date is prior to the date the stock certificate is issued, except as provided in Section 13 of the Plan.
Exercising an Option in any manner shall decrease the number of Shares thereafter available for sale under the Option, by the number of Shares as to which the Option is exercised.
(h) . If a Participant ceases to be an Employee, other than upon the Participant's death or Disability, the Participant may exercise his or her Option within such period of time as is specified in the Option Agreement to the extent that the Option is vested on the date of termination (but in no event later than the expiration of the term of such Option as set forth in the Option Agreement). In the absence of a specified time in the Option Agreement, the Option shall remain exercisable for three (3) months following the Participant's termination. If, on the date of termination, the Participant is not vested as to his or her entire Option, the Shares covered by the unvested portion of the Option shall revert to the Plan. If, after termination, the Participant does not exercise his or her Option within the time specified by the Administrator, the Option shall terminate, and the Shares covered by such Option shall revert to the Plan.
Termination of Relationship as an Employee
(i) . If a Participant ceases to be an Employee as a result of the Participant's Disability, the Participant may exercise his or her Option for twelve (12) months following the Participant's termination (but in no event may the Option be exercised later than the expiration of the term of such Option as set forth in the Option Agreement). If, on the date of termination, the Participant is not vested as to his or her entire Option, the Shares covered by the unvested portion of the Option shall revert to the Plan. If, after termination, the Participant does not exercise his or her Option within the time specified herein, the Option shall terminate, and the Shares covered by such Option shall revert to the Plan.
Disability
(j) . If a Participant dies while an Employee, the Option may be exercised for twelve (12) months following Participant's death (but in no event may the option be exercised later than the expiration of the term of such Option as set forth in the Option Agreement), by the Participant's designated beneficiary, provided such beneficiary has been designated prior to Participant's death in a form acceptable to the Administrator. If no such beneficiary has been designated by the Participant, then such Option may be exercised by the personal representative of the Participant's estate or by the person(s) to whom the Option is transferred pursuant to the Participant's will or in accordance with the laws of descent and distribution. If the Option is not so exercised within the time specified herein, the Option shall terminate, and the Shares covered by such Option shall revert to the Plan.
Death of Participant
(k) . Each Option shall be designated in the Notice of Grant as either an Incentive Stock Option or a Nonstatutory Stock Option. However, notwithstanding such designations, to the extent that the aggregate Fair Market Value of Shares subject to a Participant's Incentive Stock Options granted by the Company, any Parent or Subsidiary, which become exercisable for the first time during any calendar year (under all plans of the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary) exceeds $100,000, such excess Options shall be treated as Nonstatutory Stock Options. For purposes of this Section 8(k), Incentive Stock Options shall be taken into account in the order in which they were granted, and the Fair Market Value of the Shares shall be determined as of the time of grant.
ISO $100,000 Rule
9. .
Restricted Stock
(a) . Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan, the Administrator, at any time and from time to time, may grant Shares of Restricted Stock to Employees as the Administrator, in its sole discretion, shall determine. The Administrator, in its sole discretion, shall determine the number of Shares to be granted to each Participant, provided that during any Fiscal Year, no Participant shall receive more than a total of 300,000 Shares of Restricted Stock (and/or Restricted Stock Units); , that such limit shall be 600,000 Shares in the Participant's first Fiscal Year of Company service.
Grant of Restricted Stock
provided, however
 
 
(b) . Each Award of Restricted Stock shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify the Period of Restriction, the number of Shares granted, and such other terms and conditions as the Administrator, in its sole discretion, shall determine. Unless the Administrator determines otherwise, Shares of Restricted Stock shall be held by the Company as escrow agent until the restrictions on such Shares have lapsed.
Restricted Stock Agreement
(c) . Except as provided in this Section 9, Shares of Restricted Stock may not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated until the end of the applicable Period of Restriction.
Transferability
(d) . The Administrator, in its sole discretion, may impose such other restrictions on Shares of Restricted Stock as it may deem advisable or appropriate, in accordance with this Section 9(d).
Other Restrictions
(i) . The Administrator may set restrictions based upon continued employment or service with the Company and its affiliates, the achievement of specific performance objectives (Company-wide, departmental, or individual), applicable federal or state securities laws, or any other basis determined by the Administrator in its discretion.
General Restrictions
(ii) . For purposes of qualifying grants of Restricted Stock as "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code, the Administrator, in its discretion, may set restrictions based upon the achievement of Performance Goals. The Performance Goals shall be set by the Administrator on or before the latest date permissible to enable the Restricted Stock to qualify as "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code. In granting Restricted Stock which is intended to qualify under Section 162(m) of the Code, the Administrator shall follow any procedures determined by it from time to time to be necessary or appropriate to ensure qualification of the Restricted Stock under Section 162(m) of the Code (e.g., in determining the Performance Goals).
Section 162(m) Performance Restrictions
(iii) . The Administrator, in its discretion, may legend the certificates representing Restricted Stock to give appropriate notice of such restrictions.
Legend on Certificates
(e) . Except as otherwise provided in this Section 9, Shares of Restricted Stock covered by each Restricted Stock grant made under the Plan shall be released from escrow as soon as practicable after the last day of the Period of Restriction. The Administrator, in its discretion, may accelerate the time at which any restrictions shall lapse or be removed. After the restrictions have lapsed, the Participant shall be entitled to have any legend or legends under Section 9(d)(iii) removed from his or her Share certificate, and the Shares shall be freely transferable by the Participant. The Administrator (in its discretion) may establish procedures regarding the release of Shares from escrow and the removal of legends, as necessary or appropriate to minimize administrative burdens on the Company.
Removal of Restrictions
(f) . During the Period of Restriction, Participants holding Shares of Restricted Stock granted hereunder may exercise full voting rights with respect to those Shares, unless the Administrator determines otherwise.
Voting Rights
(g) . During the Period of Restriction, Participants holding Shares of Restricted Stock shall be entitled to receive all dividends and other distributions paid with respect to such Shares unless otherwise provided in the Award Agreement. Any such dividends or distribution shall be subject to the same restrictions on transferability and forfeitability as the Shares of Restricted Stock with respect to which they were paid, unless otherwise provided in the Award Agreement.
Dividends and Other Distributions
(h) . On the date set forth in the Award Agreement, the Restricted Stock for which restrictions have not lapsed shall revert to the Company and again shall become available for grant under the Plan.
Return of Restricted Stock to the Company
10. .
Restricted Stock Units
(a) . Restricted Stock Units may be granted to Employees at any time and from time to time, as shall be determined by the Administrator, in its sole discretion. The Administrator shall have complete discretion in determining the number of Restricted Stock Units granted to each Participant, provided that during any Fiscal Year, no Participant shall receive more than a total of 300,000 Restricted Stock Units (and/or Shares of Restricted Stock); , that such limit shall be 600,000 Restricted Stock Units in the Participant's first Fiscal Year of Company service.
Grant of Restricted Stock Units
provided, however
(b) . Each Restricted Stock Unit shall have an initial value equal to the Fair Market Value of a Share on the Grant Date.
Value of Restricted Stock Units
(c) . Each Award of Restricted Stock Units shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify any vesting conditions, the number of Restricted Stock Units granted, and such other terms and conditions as the Administrator, in its sole discretion, shall determine.
Restricted Stock Unit Agreement
(d) . The Administrator, in its discretion, shall set performance objectives or other vesting criteria which, depending on the extent to which they are met, will determine the number or value of Restricted Stock Units that will be paid out to the Participants. Each Award of Restricted Stock Units shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify the Performance Period, and such other terms and conditions as the Administrator, in its sole discretion, shall determine.
Performance Objectives and Other Terms
(i) . The Administrator may set performance objectives or vesting criteria based upon the achievement of Company-wide, departmental, or individual goals, applicable federal or state securities laws, or any other basis determined by the Administrator in its discretion (for example, but not by way of limitation, continuous service as an Employee).
General Performance Objectives or Vesting Criteria
(ii) . For purposes of qualifying grants of Restricted Stock Units as "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code, the Administrator, in its discretion, may determine that the performance objectives applicable to Restricted Stock Units shall be based on the achievement of Performance Goals. The Performance Goals shall be set by the Administrator on or before the latest date permissible to enable the Restricted Stock Units to qualify as "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code. In granting Restricted Stock Units that are intended to qualify under Section 162(m) of the Code, the Administrator shall follow any procedures determined by it from time to time to be necessary or appropriate to ensure qualification of the Restricted Stock Units under Section 162(m) of the Code (e.g., in determining the Performance Goals).
Section 162(m) Performance Objectives
(e) . After the applicable Performance Period has ended, the holder of Restricted Stock Units shall be entitled to receive a payout of the number of Restricted Stock Units earned by the Participant over the Performance Period, to be determined as a function of the extent to which the corresponding performance objectives have been achieved. After the grant of a Restricted Stock Unit, the Administrator, in its sole discretion, may reduce or waive any performance objectives for such Restricted Stock Unit.
Earning of Restricted Stock Units
(f) . Payment of vested Restricted Stock Units shall be made as soon as practicable after vesting (subject to any deferral permitted under Section 18). The Administrator, in its sole discretion, may pay Restricted Stock Units in the form of cash, in Shares or in a combination thereof.
Form and Timing of Payment of Restricted Stock Units
(g) . On the date set forth in the Award Agreement, all unvested Restricted Stock Units shall be forfeited to the Company and, except as otherwise determined by the Administrator, again shall be available for grant under the Plan.
Cancellation of Restricted Stock Units
11. . Unless the Administrator provides otherwise or except as otherwise required by Applicable Laws, vesting of Awards granted hereunder shall continue during any leave of absence approved by the Administrator.
Leaves of Absence
 
 
12. . Unless determined otherwise by the Administrator, an Award may not be sold, pledged, assigned, hypothecated, transferred, or disposed of in any manner other than by will or by the laws of descent or distribution and may be exercised, during the lifetime of the recipient, only by the recipient. If the Administrator makes an Award transferable, such Award shall contain such additional terms and conditions as the Administrator deems appropriate; provided, however, that such Award shall in no event be transferable for value. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Participant may, if the Administrator (in its discretion) so permits, transfer an Award to an individual or entity other than the Company. Any such transfer shall be made in accordance with such procedures as the Administrator may specify from time to time.
Non-Transferability of Awards
13. .
Adjustments Upon Changes in Capitalization
(a) Subject to any required action by the stockholders of the Company, the number of Shares covered by each outstanding Award, the number of Shares which have been authorized for issuance under the Plan but as to which no Awards have yet been granted or which have been returned to the Plan upon cancellation or expiration of an Award, as well as the price per Share of Common Stock covered by each such outstanding Award and the 162(m) Fiscal Year share issuance limits under Sections 8(a), 9(a) and 10(a) hereof, shall be proportionately adjusted for any increase or decrease in the number of issued Shares resulting from a stock split, reverse stock split, stock dividend, combination or reclassification of the Common Stock, or any other increase or decrease in the number of issued Shares effected without receipt of consideration by the Company; , that conversion of any convertible securities of the Company shall not be deemed to have been "effected without receipt of consideration." Such adjustment shall be made by the Compensation Committee, whose determination in that respect shall be final, binding and conclusive. Except as expressly provided herein, no issuance by the Company of shares of stock of any class, or securities convertible into shares of stock of any class, shall affect, and no adjustment by reason thereof shall be made with respect to, the number or price of shares of Common Stock subject to an Award.
provided, however
(b) . In the event of the proposed dissolution or liquidation of the Company, the Administrator shall notify each Participant as soon as practicable prior to the effective date of such proposed transaction. The Administrator in its discretion may provide for a Participant to have the right to exercise his or her Award until ten (10) days prior to such transaction as to all of the Shares covered thereby, including Shares as to which the Award would not otherwise be exercisable. In addition, the Administrator may provide that any Company repurchase option or forfeiture rights applicable to any Award shall lapse 100%, and that any Award vesting shall accelerate 100%, provided the proposed dissolution or liquidation takes place at the time and in the manner contemplated. To the extent it has not been previously exercised, an Award will terminate immediately prior to the consummation of such proposed action.
Dissolution or Liquidation
(c) . In the event of a Change of Control, each outstanding Award shall be assumed or an equivalent Award substituted by the successor corporation or a Parent or Subsidiary of the successor corporation.
Change of Control
In the event that the successor corporation refuses to assume or substitute for the Award, the Participant shall fully vest in and have the right to exercise all of his or her outstanding Options, including Shares as to which such Awards would not otherwise be vested or exercisable, all restrictions on Restricted Stock will lapse and all Restricted Stock Units shall become fully vested; , that, with respect to Awards with performance-based vesting, including but not limited to Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units, all performance goals or other vesting criteria will be deemed achieved at one hundred percent (100%) of target levels and all other terms and conditions met. In addition, if an Option is not assumed or substituted in the event of a Change of Control, the Administrator shall notify the Participant in writing or electronically that the Option shall be fully vested and exercisable for a period of fifteen (15) days from the date of such notice, and the Option shall terminate upon the expiration of such period.
provided, however
For the purposes of this paragraph, an Award shall be considered assumed if, following the Change of Control, the Award confers the right to purchase or receive, for each Share subject to the Award
immediately prior to the Change of Control, the consideration (whether stock, cash, or other securities or property) received in the Change of Control by holders of Common Stock for each Share held on the effective date of the transaction (and if holders were offered a choice of consideration, the type of consideration chosen by the holders of a majority of the outstanding Shares); , that if such consideration received in the Change of Control is not solely common stock of the successor corporation or its Parent, the Administrator may, with the consent of the successor corporation, provide for the consideration to be received upon the exercise of an Option or upon the payout of the Restricted Stock Unit Award, for each Share subject to the Award, to be solely common stock of the successor corporation or its Parent equal in fair market value to the per share consideration received by holders of Common Stock in the Change of Control.
provided, however
Notwithstanding anything in this Section 13(c) to the contrary, an Award that vests, is earned or paid-out upon the satisfaction of one or more performance goals will not be considered assumed if the Company or its successor modifies any of such performance goals without the Participant's consent; provided, however, a modification to such performance goals only to reflect the successor corporation's post-Change of Control corporate structure will not be deemed to invalidate an otherwise valid Award assumption.
14. .
Amendment and Termination of the Plan
(a) . The Board may at any time amend, alter, suspend or terminate the Plan; provided, however, that the Board may not materially amend the Plan without obtaining stockholder approval. For this purpose, the following shall be considered material amendments requiring stockholder approval: (i) increasing the benefits accruing to Plan participants, (ii) increasing the number of Shares that may be issued under the Plan (other than in accordance with Section 13(a) hereof), (iii) modifying the requirements for participation under the Plan or (iv) as otherwise may be required by Applicable Laws.
Amendment and Termination
(b) . The Company shall obtain stockholder approval of any Plan amendment to the extent necessary and desirable to comply with Applicable Laws. Such stockholder approval, if required, shall be obtained in such a manner and to such a degree as is required by the applicable law, rule or regulation.
Stockholder Approval
(c) . No amendment, alteration, suspension or termination of the Plan shall impair the rights of any Participant, unless mutually agreed otherwise between the Participant and the Administrator, which agreement must be in writing (or electronic format) and signed by the Participant and the Company.
Effect of Amendment or Termination
15. .
Conditions Upon Issuance of Shares
(a) . Shares shall not be issued pursuant to the exercise of an Award unless the exercise of such Award and the issuance and delivery of such Shares shall comply with Applicable Laws and shall be further subject to the approval of counsel for the Company with respect to such compliance.
Legal Compliance
(b) . As a condition to the exercise or receipt of Shares pursuant to an Award, the Company may require the person exercising or receiving Shares pursuant to an Award to represent and warrant at the time of any such exercise or receipt that the Shares are being purchased only for investment and without any present intention to sell or distribute such Shares if, in the opinion of counsel for the Company, such a representation is required.
Investment Representations
16. .
Liability of Company
(a) . The inability of the Company to obtain authority from any regulatory body having jurisdiction, which authority is deemed by the Company's counsel to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any Shares hereunder, shall relieve the Company of any liability in respect of the failure to issue or sell such Shares as to which such requisite authority shall not have been obtained.
Inability to Obtain Authority
 
 
(b) . If the Shares covered by an Award exceed, as of the Date of Grant, the number of Shares which may be issued under the Plan without additional stockholder approval, such Award shall be void with respect to such excess Shares, unless stockholder approval of an amendment sufficiently increasing the number of Shares subject to the Plan is timely obtained in accordance with Section 14(b) of the Plan.
Grants Exceeding Allotted Shares
17. . The Company, during the term of this Plan, will at all times reserve and keep available such number of Shares as shall be sufficient to satisfy the requirements of the Plan.
Reservation of Shares
18. . The Administrator, in its sole discretion, may permit a Participant to defer receipt of the payment of cash or the delivery of Shares that would otherwise be due to such Participant under an Award. Any such deferral elections shall be subject to such rules and procedures as shall be determined by the Administrator in its sole discretion.
Deferrals
19. . No Employee shall have the right to be selected to receive an Award under this Plan, or, having been so selected, to be selected to receive a future Award.
Participation
20. . Except to the limited extent provided in Section 9(f), no Participant (nor any beneficiary) shall have any of the rights or privileges of a stockholder of the Company with respect to any Shares issuable pursuant to an Award (or exercise thereof), unless and until certificates representing such Shares shall have been issued, recorded on the records of the Company or its transfer agents or registrars, and delivered to the Participant (or beneficiary).
No Rights as Stockholder
21. . Prior to the delivery of any Shares or cash pursuant to an Award (or exercise thereof), the Company shall have the power and the right to deduct or withhold, or require a Participant to remit to the Company, an amount sufficient to satisfy federal, state, local and foreign taxes (including the Participant's FICA obligation) required to be withheld with respect to such Award (or exercise thereof). Notwithstanding any contrary provision of the Plan, if a Participant fails to remit to the Company such withholding amount within the time period specified by the Administrator (in its discretion), the Participant's Award may, in the Administrator's discretion, be forfeited and in such case the Participant shall not receive any of the Shares subject to such Award.
Withholding Requirements
22. . To the extent that the Administrator determines that any Award granted under the Plan is subject to Section 409A of the Code, the program pursuant to which such Award is granted and the Award Agreement evidencing such Award shall incorporate the terms and conditions required by Section 409A of the Code. To the extent applicable, the Plan and any Award Agreements shall be interpreted in accordance with Section 409A of the Code and Department of Treasury regulations and other interpretive guidance issued thereunder, including without limitation any such regulations or other guidance that may be issued after the Effective Date. Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan or the applicable Award Agreement to the contrary, in the event that following the Effective Date the Administrator determines that any Award may be subject to Section 409A of the Code and related Department of Treasury guidance (including such Department of Treasury guidance as may be issued after the Effective Date), the Administrator may adopt such amendments to the Plan and the applicable Award Agreement or adopt other policies and procedures (including amendments, policies and procedures with retroactive effect), or take any other actions, that the Administrator determines are necessary or appropriate to (a) exempt the Award from Section 409A of the Code and/or preserve the intended tax treatment of the benefits provided with respect to the Award, or (b) comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code and related Department of Treasury guidance and thereby avoid the application of any penalty taxes under such Section.
Section 409A
23. . The Administrator, in its sole discretion and pursuant to such procedures as it may specify from time to time, may permit or require a Participant to satisfy all or part of the tax withholding obligations in connection with an Award by (a) having the Company withhold otherwise deliverable Shares, or (b) delivering to the Company already-owned Shares having a Fair Market Value equal to the amount required to
Withholding Arrangements
be withheld. The amount so withheld shall not exceed the amount determined by using the minimum federal, state, local or foreign jurisdiction statutory withholding rates applicable to the Participant with respect to the Award on the date that the amount of tax to be withheld is to be determined. The Fair Market Value of the Shares to be withheld or delivered shall be determined as of the date that the taxes are required to be withheld.
24. . Each person who is or shall have been a member of the Committee, or of the Board, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Company against and from (a) any loss, cost, liability, or expense that may be imposed upon or reasonably incurred by him or her in connection with or resulting from any claim, action, suit, or proceeding to which he or she may be a party or in which he or she may be involved by reason of any action taken or failure to act under the Plan or any Award Agreement, and (b) from any and all amounts paid by him or her in settlement thereof, with the Company's approval, or paid by him or her in satisfaction of any judgment in any such claim, action, suit, or proceeding against him or her, provided he or she shall give the Company an opportunity, at its own expense, to handle and defend the same before he or she undertakes to handle and defend it on his or her own behalf. The foregoing right of indemnification shall not be exclusive of any other rights of indemnification to which such persons may be entitled under the Company's Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws, by contract, as a matter of law, or otherwise, or under any power that the Company may have to indemnify them or hold them harmless.
Indemnification
25. . All obligations of the Company under the Plan, with respect to Awards granted hereunder, shall be binding on any successor to the Company, whether the existence of such successor is the result of a direct or indirect purchase, merger, consolidation, or otherwise, of all or substantially all of the business or assets of the Company.
Successors
26. . Except where otherwise indicated by the context, any masculine term used herein also shall include the feminine; the plural shall include the singular and the singular shall include the plural.
Gender and Number
27. . In the event any provision of the Plan shall be held illegal or invalid for any reason, the illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts of the Plan, and the Plan shall be construed and enforced as if the illegal or invalid provision had not been included.
Severability
28. . The Plan and all Award Agreements shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of California (with the exception of its conflict of laws provisions).
Governing Law
29. . Captions are provided herein for convenience only, and shall not serve as a basis for interpretation or construction of the Plan.
Captions
 


