FILE:ADSK/ADSK-8K-20100812160738.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On August 12, 2010, Autodesk, Inc. (Autodesk or the Company) issued a press release and prepared remarks reporting financial results for the second quarter ended July 31, 2010.  The press release and prepared remarks are furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference.
 
These exhibits shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
To supplement Autodesks consolidated financial statements presented on a GAAP basis, the press release and prepared remarks furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, respectively, provide investors with certain non-GAAP measures, including but not limited to historical non-GAAP net earnings and historical and future non-GAAP net earnings per diluted share. For our internal budgeting and resource allocation process, Autodesks management uses non-GAAP measures that do not include: (a) stock-based compensation expenses, (b) amortization of purchased intangibles and purchases of technology, (c) goodwill impairment, (d) restructuring charges, (e) establishment of a valuation allowance on certain net deferred tax assets, (f) discrete tax items, and (g) the income tax effects on the difference between GAAP and non-GAAP costs and expenses.  Autodesks management uses non-GAAP measures in making operating decisions because we believe the measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding Autodesks earning potential. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures facilitate comparisons to our and our competitors historical results and operating guidance.
 
As described above, Autodesk excludes the following items from its non-GAAP measures:
 
A. Autodesk excludes stock-based compensation expenses from its non-GAAP measures primarily because they are non-cash expenses and management finds it useful to exclude certain non-cash charges to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods.
Stock-based compensation expenses.
 
B. Autodesk incurs amortization of acquisition-related purchased intangible assets, primarily in connection with its acquisition of certain businesses and technologies. The amortization of purchased intangibles varies depending on the level of acquisition activity, and management finds it useful to exclude these variable charges to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods.
Amortization of purchased intangibles and purchases of technology.
 
C. This is a non-cash charge to write-down goodwill to fair value when there was an indication that the asset was impaired. As explained above, management finds it useful to exclude certain non-cash charges to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods.
Goodwill impairment.
 
D. These expenses are associated with realigning our business strategies based on current economic conditions. In connection with these restructuring actions, we recognize costs related to termination benefits for former employees whose positions were eliminated, and the closure of facilities and cancelation of certain contracts. We exclude these charges because these expenses are not reflective of ongoing operating results in the current period.
Restructuring charges.
 
E. This is a non-cash charge to record a valuation allowance on certain deferred tax assets. As explained above, management finds it useful to exclude certain non-cash charges to assess the appropriate level of various expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods.
Establishment of a valuation allowance on certain net deferred tax assets.
 
 
 
 
F. Autodesk excludes its GAAP tax provision, including discrete items, from its non-GAAP measure of income, and includes a non-GAAP tax provision based upon its projected annual non-GAAP effective tax rate. Management believes this approach assists investors in understanding the tax provision and the effective tax rate related to the Companys ongoing operations.
Discrete tax items.
 
G. The income tax effects that are excluded from the non-GAAP measures relate to the tax impact on the difference between GAAP and non-GAAP costs and expenses, primarily due to differences in the timing of when income tax benefits are recognized for stock compensation and purchased intangibles for GAAP and non-GAAP measures.
Income tax effects on the difference between GAAP and non-GAAP costs and expenses.
 
There are limitations in using non-GAAP financial measures because the non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. In addition, the non-GAAP financial measures are limited in value because they exclude certain items that may have a material impact upon our reported financial results. Management compensates for these limitations by analyzing current and future results on a GAAP basis as well as a non-GAAP basis and also by providing GAAP measures in our earnings release and prepared remarks. The presentation of non-GAAP financial information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted account ing principles in the United States. The non-GAAP financial measures are meant to supplement, and be viewed in conjunction with, GAAP financial measures. Investors should review the information regarding non-GAAP financial measures provided in our press release and prepared remarks.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)  Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date:  August 12, 2010
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
-- (NASDAQ: ADSK) today reported financial results for the second quarter of fiscal 2011.
SAN RAFAEL, Calif., August 12, 2010
Autodesk, Inc.
Our focus on growing our revenue base while controlling costs resulted in better than expected revenue and profitability in the second quarter," said , Autodesk president and CEO.  Although the pace of the global recovery is varied by country, we are pleased that we achieved revenue growth in all of our major geographies.  We experienced strong year-over-year growth in many key areas including operating margin, revenue from commercial new licenses, and cash flow from operations.  Our results reflect the traction that we are gaining in both new and existing accounts.
Carl Bass
 
1
 
 
Operational Overview
The following sequential revenue comparisons were negatively impacted by a one-time benefit of approximately $15 million in upgrade revenue related promotions and a price change in the first quarter.
EMEA revenue was $189 million and increased 20 percent compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2010 as reported and 19 percent on a constant currency basis.  EMEA revenue decreased 5 percent sequentially as reported and 4 percent on a constant currency basis.
Revenue in the Americas was $168 million and increased 6 percent compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2010 and 4 percent sequentially.
Revenue in Asia Pacific was $116 million and increased 17 percent compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2010 as reported and 14 percent on a constant currency basis.  Revenue in Asia Pacific increased 1 percent sequentially as reported and 2 percent on a constant currency basis.
Revenue from emerging economies was $71 million, an increase of 13 percent compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2010 as reported and 14 percent on a constant currency basis.  Revenue from emerging economies increased 5 percent sequentially as reported and 6 percent on a constant currency basis.  Revenue from emerging economies represented 15 percent of total revenue in the second quarter.
All constant currency calculations remove the impact of foreign currency fluctuations and any gains or losses recorded to revenue within the current period as a result of Autodesks hedging program.
Revenue from the Platform Solutions and Emerging Business segment was $177 million, an increase of 19 percent compared to the second quarter last year and a decrease of 3 percent sequentially.  Revenue from the AEC business segment was $133 million, an increase of 8 percent compared to the second quarter last year and a decrease of 3 percent sequentially.  Revenue from the Manufacturing business segment was $113 million, an increase of 18 percent compared to the second quarter last year and 4 percent sequentially.  Revenue from the Media and Entertainment business segment was $50 million, an increase of 6 percent compared to the second quarter last year and 8 percent sequentially.
Second quarter operating margins improved significantly year-over-year.  The 16 percentage point improvement in GAAP operating margin was driven primarily by higher revenue and lower restructuring charges in the current quarter.  The 9 percentage point year-over-year improvement in non-GAAP operating margin was driven primarily by higher revenue.
 
2
 
 
Cash flow from operations was $112 million in the second quarter this year.  Autodesks cash and investments balance at the end of the second quarter was $1.3 billion.
In the first half of fiscal 2011 we achieved significant year-over-year growth in revenue, cash flow and EPS, continued Bass.  As we enter the second half of fiscal 2011, we are optimistic about continued revenue growth opportunities and believe that we will deliver significant growth in annual operating margins over the prior year.  We will also balance our cost control with essential investments in the business with a focus on revenue generating opportunities.
Business Outlook
The following statements are forward-looking statements that are based on current expectations and assumptions, and involve risks and uncertainties some of which are set forth below. Autodesk is only providing revenue and earnings per share guidance for its fiscal third quarter of 2011 at this time.
Third Quarter Fiscal 2011
Net revenue for the third quarter of fiscal 2011 is expected to be in the range of $450 million and $475 million. GAAP earnings per diluted share are expected to be in the range of $0.18 and $0.23. Non-GAAP earnings per diluted share are expected to be in the range of $0.28 and $0.33 and exclude $0.06 related to stock-based compensation expense, and $0.04 for the amortization of acquisition related intangibles.
Third quarter outlook assumes an effective tax rate of 25 percent for GAAP results and an effective tax rate of 27 percent for non-GAAP results.
Full Year Fiscal 2011
Autodesk is not providing specific revenue or EPS guidance for fiscal 2011 at this time.  However, Autodesk anticipates GAAP operating margin to increase significantly for the full year fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010.  Autodesk anticipates non-GAAP operating margin to increase between 400 and 450 basis points for full year fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010.  Non-GAAP operating margin excludes stock-based compensation expense, amortization of acquisition related intangibles, and restructuring charges.
Earnings Conference Call and Webcast
Autodesk will host its first quarter conference call today at 5:00 p.m. EDT. The live broadcast can be accessed at http://www.autodesk.com/investors. Supplemental financial information and prepared remarks for the conference call will be posted to the investor relations section of Autodesks website simultaneously with this press release.
 
3
 
 
The prepared remarks will not be read on the conference call.  The conference call will include only brief remarks followed by questions and answers.
NOTE:
A replay of the broadcast will be available at 7:00 pm EDT at http://www.autodesk.com/investors. This replay will be maintained on Autodesks website for at least 12 months.
Safe Harbor Statement
This press release contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including statements in the paragraphs under Business Outlook above, statements regarding anticipated market, economic and revenue trends, cost savings, operational and efficiency investments, revenue, margin and earnings improvement, and other statements regarding our expected strategies, market and products positions, performance and results.  There are a significant number of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from statements made in this press release, including:  general market, economic and business conditions, our performance in particular geographies, including emerging economies, the financial and business condition of our reseller and distribution channels, fluctuation in foreig n currency exchange rates, the success of our foreign currency hedging program, failure to maintain cost reductions and productivity increases, slowing momentum in maintenance revenues, failure to achieve sufficient sell-through in our channels for new or existing products, pricing pressure, failure to successfully expand adoption of our horizontal design products, our vertical design products and model-based design products, difficulties encountered in integrating new or acquired businesses and technologies, the inability to identify and realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions, unexpected fluctuations in our tax rate, the timing and degree of expected investments in growth and efficiency opportunities, changes in the timing of product releases and retirements, failure of key new applications to achieve anticipated levels of customer acceptance, failure to achieve continued success in technology advancements, interruptions or terminations in the business of Autodesk consultants, the expense and impa ct of legal or regulatory proceedings, and any unanticipated accounting charges.
 
Further information on potential factors that could affect the financial results of Autodesk are included in Autodesks report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 31, 2010 and Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 30, 2010, which are on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Autodesk does not assume any obligation to update the forward-looking statements provided to reflect events that occur or circumstances that exist after the date on which they were made.
 
4
 
 
About Autodesk
Autodesk, Inc., is a leader in , engineering and entertainment software. Customers across the manufacturing, architecture, building, construction, and media and entertainment industries  including the last 15 Academy Award winners for Best Visual Effects  use Autodesk software to design, visualize, and simulate their ideas. Since its introduction of AutoCAD software in 1982, Autodesk continues to develop the broadest portfolio of state-of-the-art software for global markets. For additional information about Autodesk, visit .
3D design
www.autodesk.com
 
Autodesk and AutoCAD are registered trademarks or trademarks of Autodesk, Inc., and/or its subsidiaries and/or affiliates in the USA and/or other countries. Academy Award is a registered trademark of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences. All other brand names, product names, or trademarks belong to their respective holders. Autodesk reserves the right to alter product and service offerings, and specifications and pricing at any time without notice, and is not responsible for typographical or graphical errors that may appear in this document.  2010 Autodesk, Inc. All rights reserved.
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
Autodesk is posting a copy of these prepared remarks and its press release to its investor Website.  These prepared remarks are offered to provide shareholders and analysts with additional time and detail for analyzing our results in advance of our quarterly conference call. As previously scheduled, the conference call will begin today, August 12, 2010 at 2:00 pm PDT (5:00 pm EDT) and will include only brief comments followed by questions and answers. These prepared remarks will not be read on the call.
 
To access the live broadcast of the question and answer session, please visit the Investor Relations section of Autodesks Website at www.autodesk.com/investor.  A complete reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP results is provided in the tables following these prepared remarks.
 
 
Second Quarter Fiscal 2011 Overview
Autodesk experienced year-over-year growth in each major geography leading to stronger than expected year-over-year revenue growth for the company.  Revenue results in our international geographies were particularly solid with all of our top 5 countries showing year-over-year growth.  We experienced strong year-over-year growth in several key areas including operating margin, revenue from commercial new licenses, and cash flow from operations.  Strong revenue results coupled with ongoing cost controls led to greatly improved operating margin and earnings per share compared to the second quarter last year.
 
 
 
1
 
 
Revenue Analysis
 
 
Total net revenue for the second quarter was $473 million as reported, an increase of 14 percent as compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2010, and approximately flat sequentially.  On a constant currency basis, revenue for the second quarter increased 13 percent compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2010, and was flat sequentially.
License and other revenue was $281 million, an increase of 22 percent compared to the second quarter last year, and flat sequentially.
Maintenance revenue was $192 million, an increase of 4 percent compared to the second quarter last year, and a decrease of 1 percent sequentially.
Maintenance billings increased 6 percent year-over-year, and decreased 22 percent sequentially.  The sequential decrease in maintenance billings is primarily related to the first quarter one-time benefit from the product upgrade promotion and typical seasonality.
The sequential revenue comparisons above were negatively impacted by a one-time benefit of approximately $15 million in upgrade revenue related promotions and a price change in the first quarter.
Maintenance renewal rates increased sequentially and year-over-year.
 
 
2
 
 
Given the recent foreign exchange volatility, we would like to provide a brief summary of how we handle foreign currency exchange hedging.  A few points to call out include:
 
Revenue by Geography
 
 
Revenue in EMEA was $189 million, an increase of 20 percent compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2010 as reported and 19 percent on a constant currency basis.  EMEA revenue decreased 5 percent sequentially as reported and 4 percent on a constant currency basis.  The sequential decrease is primarily related to a one-time benefit in upgrade revenue last quarter.
Revenue in the Americas was $168 million, an increase 6 percent compared to the second quarter last year and 4 percent sequentially.  The Americas posted year-over-year growth for the first time since the second quarter of fiscal 2009.
 
 
3
 
Revenue in Asia Pacific was $116 million, an increase of 17 percent compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2010 as reported and 14 percent on a constant currency basis.  Revenue in Asia Pacific increased 1 percent sequentially as reported and 2 percent on a constant currency basis.
Revenue from emerging economies was $71 million and increased 13 percent compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2010 as reported and 14 percent on a constant currency basis.  Revenue from emerging economies increased 5 percent sequentially as reported and6 percent on a constant currency basis.
Revenue by Product Type
 
Revenue from our model-based design products was $138 million, an increase of 14 percent compared to the second quarter last year, and flat sequentially.  Year-over-year growth in our model-based design products was led by growth in our Inventor and Revit families of products.
Our horizontal design products, which consist primarily of AutoCAD and AutoCAD LT, grew 25 percent compared to the second quarter last year and declined 5 percent sequentially.  Revenue from vertical design products, such as AutoCAD Architecture and AutoCAD Mechanical, increased 14 percent compared to the second quarter last year and was flat sequentially. Combined revenue from horizontal design products and vertical design products was $231 million, an increase of 22 percent compared to the second quarter last year and a decrease of 3 percent sequentially.
Revenue by Business Segment
 
 
Revenue from our Platform Solutions and Emerging Business segment was $177 million, an increase of 19 percent compared to the second quarter last year and a decrease of 3 percent sequentially.
Revenue from our AEC business segment was $133 million, an increase of 8 percent compared to the second quarter last year and a decrease of 3 percent sequentially.  Revenue from our Revit family of products increased 20 percent compared to the second quarter last year and 4 percent sequentially.
 
4
 
 
Revenue from our Manufacturing business segment was $113 million, an increase of 18 percent compared to the second quarter last year and 4 percent sequentially.  Revenue from the Inventor family of products increased 16 percent compared to the second quarter last year and was flat sequentially.
Revenue from our Media and Entertainment business segment was $50 million, an increase of 6 percent compared to the second quarter last year and 8 percent sequentially.  Revenue from animation products increased 7 percent compared to the second quarter last year and 4 percent sequentially.  Revenue from Creative Finishing (previously known as Advanced Systems) increased 5 percent compared to the second quarter last year and 16 percent sequentially.
Margins and EPS Review
 
 
Autodesk remained focused on controlling expenses in the second quarter.  GAAP total spend (GAAP cost of revenue plus GAAP operating expenses) decreased year-over-year and sequentially.  GAAP total spend decreased year-over-year primarily due to lower restructuring charges.  Non-GAAP total spend (non-GAAP cost of revenue plus non-GAAP operating expenses) increased slightly year-over-year and declined sequentially.
GAAP gross margin in the second quarter was 90 percent.  Non-GAAP gross margin in the second quarter was 92 percent.
 
 
5
 
 
GAAP operating margin was 17 percent, compared to 1 percent in the second quarter last year.  The improvement was driven primarily by lower restructuring costs.  GAAP operating margin increased 6 percentage points sequentially from 11 percent in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 primarily related to lower restructuring charges and lower operating expenses.  Non-GAAP operating margin was 25 percent compared to 16 percent in the second quarter last year driven by higher revenue.  Non-GAAP operating margin increased 5 percentage points on a sequential basis from 20 percent in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 driven primarily by lower operating expenses.
Autodesk expects total spend to be higher in the second half of fiscal 2011 compared to the first half due to typical seasonality of expenses as well as increased investments in revenue generating initiatives.
The second quarter effective tax rate was 25 percent for our GAAP results and 27 percent for our non-GAAP results.
Earnings per diluted share for the second quarter were $0.25 GAAP and $0.36 non-GAAP.
 
A complete reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP results is provided in the tables following these prepared remarks.
 
Foreign Exchange Impact
 
 
Foreign currency impact includes the foreign currency impact to revenue from our hedging program.
Compared to the second quarter of last year, the impact of foreign currency exchange rates in the second quarter was $5 million favorable on revenue and had no impact on expenses.
 
Compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2011, the foreign currency impact was $3 million unfavorable on revenue and $3 million favorable on expenses.
 
 
6
 
Balance Sheet Items and Cash Review
 
 
Total cash and investments at the end of the second quarter was approximately $1.3 billion.
During the second quarter Autodesk used $70 million to repurchase 2.5 million shares of common stock at an average price of $28.15 per share.  Year-to-date, Autodesk has used $129 million to repurchase 4.5 million shares of common stock at an average repurchase price of $28.70 per share.
Cash flow from operating activities during the second quarter was $112 million, an increase of 136 percent compared to the second quarter last year and a decrease of 20 percent sequentially.
Shippable backlog at the end of the second quarter was $21 million, a decrease of $1 million sequentially.
Deferred revenue was $526 million, an increase of 5 percent compared to the second quarter last year and a decrease of 3 percent sequentially.  The year-over-year increase is primarily due the year-over-year increase in subscription billings.  The sequential decrease is primarily due to a seasonal decline in subscription billings.
Total backlog at the end of the second quarter, including deferred revenue and shippable backlog orders was $548 million, an increase of $30 million compared to the second quarter of last year and a decrease of $18 million sequentially.
Channel inventory at the end of the second quarter decreased year-over-year in both weeks and dollars and increased slightly sequentially in both weeks and dollars.  At the end of the second quarter, channel inventory was about 2 weeks.
 
 
7
 
 
Days sales outstanding was 44 days, a decrease of 5 days compared to the second quarter last year and an increase of 2 days sequentially.  The sequential increase is primarily a result of typical billings linearity in the quarter compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2011, when billings were unusually strong in the first half of the quarter resulting from the upgrade promotion.
Business Outlook
 
Our guidance is based on our current expectations and the information we have available today, including currency exchange rates.  A portion of the projected euro and yen denominated revenue for our third quarter fiscal 2011 has been hedged, which should help reduce the impact of currency fluctuations on our third quarter results.  However, over an extended period of time currency fluctuations will increasingly impact our results.
Third Quarter Fiscal 2011
 
 
Third quarter outlook assumes an effective tax rate of 25 percent for our GAAP results and an effective tax rate of 27 percent for our non-GAAP results.  The effective tax rates for both GAAP and non-GAAP results exclude any benefit from the federal research and development tax credit that expired at the end of 2009. Non-GAAP earnings per diluted share exclude $0.06 related to stock-based compensation expense, and $0.04 for amortization of acquisition related intangibles.
Autodesk is not providing specific revenue or EPS guidance for fiscal 2011 at this time.  However, GAAP operating margin for the full year fiscal 2011 is expected to increase significantly compared to fiscal 2010.  Autodesk anticipates non-GAAP operating margin to increase between 400 and 450 basis points for full year fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010. This margin guidance includes the impact of increased investments in revenue generating growth initiatives in the second half of the fiscal year compared to the first half.
For fiscal 2011, non-GAAP operating margin excludes stock-based compensation expense, amortization of acquisition related intangibles, and restructuring charges.
 
 
8
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement
These prepared remarks contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including statements in the paragraphs under Business Outlook, statements regarding anticipated market, economic, maintenance billings, and revenue trends, cost savings, operational and efficiency investments, revenue performance (including by geography and product), margin improvement, market and product positions and other statements regarding our expected strategies, performance and results.  There are a significant number of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from statements made in these remarks, including:  general market, economic and business conditions, our performance in particular geographies, including emerging economies, the financial and business condition of our reseller and distribution channels, fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates, the success of our foreign currency hedging program, failure to maintain cost reductions and productivity increases, slowing momentum in maintenance revenues, failure to achieve sufficient sell-through in our channels for new or existing products, pricing pressure, failure to successfully expand adoption of our horizontal design products, our vertical design products and model-based design products, difficulties encountered in integrating new or acquired businesses and technologies, the inability to identify and realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions, unexpected fluctuations in our tax rate, the timing and degree of expected investments in growth and efficiency opportunities, changes in the timing of product releases and retirements, failure of key new applications to achieve anticipated levels of customer acceptance, failure to achieve continued success in technology advancements, interruptions or terminations in the busin ess of Autodesk consultants, the expense or impact of legal or regulatory proceedings, and any unanticipated accounting charges.
Further information on potential factors that could affect the financial results of Autodesk are included in Autodesks report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 31, 2010 and Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 30, 2010, which are on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Autodesk does not assume any obligation to update the forward-looking statements provided to reflect events that occur or circumstances that exist after the date on which they were made.
 2010 Autodesk, Inc. All rights reserved.
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


