FILE:ADSK/ADSK-8K-20110818160255.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
August 18, 2011
 
 
Autodesk, Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On August 18, 2011, Autodesk, Inc. (Autodesk or the Company) issued a press release and prepared remarks reporting financial results for the second quarter ended July 31, 2011.  The press release and prepared remarks are furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference.
 
These exhibits shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
To supplement Autodesks consolidated financial statements presented on a GAAP basis, the press release and prepared remarks furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, respectively, provide investors with certain non-GAAP measures, including but not limited to historical non-GAAP net earnings and historical and future non-GAAP net earnings per diluted share. For our internal budgeting and resource allocation process, Autodesks management uses non-GAAP measures that do not include: (a) stock-based compensation expenses, (b) amortization of purchased intangibles and purchases of technology, (c) restructuring charges, (d) discrete tax items, and (e) the income tax effects on the difference between GAAP and non-GAAP costs and expenses.  Autodesks management uses non-GAAP measures in making operating decisions because we believe the measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding Autodesks earning potential. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures facilitate comparisons to our and our competitors historical results and operating guidance.
 
As described above, Autodesk excludes the following items from its non-GAAP measures:
 
A. Autodesk excludes stock-based compensation expenses from its non-GAAP measures primarily because they are non-cash expenses and management finds it useful to exclude certain non-cash charges to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods.
Stock-based compensation expenses.
 
B. Autodesk incurs amortization of acquisition-related purchased intangible assets, primarily in connection with its acquisition of certain businesses and technologies. The amortization of purchased intangibles varies depending on the level of acquisition activity, and management finds it useful to exclude these variable charges to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods.
Amortization of purchased intangibles and purchases of technology.
 
C. These expenses are associated with realigning our business strategies based on current economic conditions. In connection with these restructuring actions, we recognize costs related to termination benefits for former employees whose positions were eliminated, and the closure of facilities and cancelation of certain contracts. We exclude these charges because these expenses are not reflective of ongoing operating results in the current period.
Restructuring charges.
 
D. Autodesk excludes its GAAP tax provision, including discrete items, from its non-GAAP measure of income, and includes a non-GAAP tax provision based upon its projected annual non-GAAP effective tax rate. Management believes this approach assists investors in understanding the tax provision and the effective tax rate related to the Companys ongoing operations.
Discrete tax items.
 
E. The income tax effects that are excluded from the non-GAAP measures relate to the tax impact on the difference between GAAP and non-GAAP costs and expenses, primarily due to differences in the timing of when income tax benefits are recognized for stock compensation and purchased intangibles for GAAP and non-GAAP measures.
Income tax effects on the difference between GAAP and non-GAAP costs and expenses.
 
 
 
 
 
 
There are limitations in using non-GAAP financial measures because the non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. In addition, the non-GAAP financial measures are limited in value because they exclude certain items that may have a material impact upon our reported financial results. Management compensates for these limitations by analyzing current and future results on a GAAP basis as well as a non-GAAP basis and also by providing GAAP measures in our earnings release and prepared remarks. The presentation of non-GAAP financial information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The non-GAAP financial measures are meant to supplement, and be viewed in conjunction with, GAAP financial measures. Investors should review the information regarding non-GAAP financial measures provided in our press release and prepared remarks.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)  Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Date:  August 18, 2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
-- (NASDAQ: ADSK) today reported financial results for the second quarter of fiscal year 2012.
SAN RAFAEL, Calif., August 18, 2011
Autodesk, Inc.
 
We experienced strong demand across all geographies and business segments with growth led by our Asia Pacific region, said , Autodesk president and CEO.   Our manufacturing business segment had its largest revenue quarter ever and continues to be our fastest growing segment.  Our AEC business segment returned to strong growth in the second quarter as the building and construction industries continue to standardize on Building Information Modeling.  And our newly launched design and creation suites are off to a terrific start, helping drive our overall revenue growth.
Carl Bass
 
 
 
1
 
 
Second Quarter Operational Overview
 
EMEA revenue was $212 million, an increase of 12 percent compared to the second quarter last year as reported and 13 percent on a constant currency basis.  Revenue in the Americas was $191 million, an increase of 13 percent compared to the second quarter last year.  Revenue in Asia Pacific was $143 million, an increase of 24 percent compared to the second quarter last year as reported and 16 percent on a constant currency basis.  Revenue from emerging economies was $88 million, an increase of 23 percent compared to the second quarter last year as reported and 18 percent on a constant currency basis.  Revenue from emerging economies represented 16 percent of total revenue in the second quarter.
All constant currency calculations remove the impact of foreign currency fluctuations and any hedge gains or losses recorded to revenue within the current and prior period as a result of Autodesks hedging program.  Starting in the current quarter, we have changed our methodology for calculating constant currency.  Please see the attached Fact Sheet for more details.
Revenue from the Platform Solutions and Emerging Business segment was $199 million, an increase of 12 percent compared to the second quarter last year.  Revenue from the Architecture, Engineering and Construction business segment was $158 million, an increase of 19 percent compared to the second quarter last year.  Revenue from the Manufacturing business segment was $136 million, an increase of 20 percent compared to the second quarter last year.  Revenue from the Media and Entertainment business segment was $54 million, an increase of 9 percent compared to the second quarter last year.
We achieved better than expected profitability driven by solid revenue performance and continued cost controls said Mark Hawkins, Autodesk Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer.  We also posted strong growth in maintenance billings, deferred revenue, and cash flow from operations.  Our balance sheet remains sound with cash and investments of approximately $1.6 billion, deferred revenue at a record high, and no debt.
 
 
 
2
 
 
Business Outlook
 
The following statements are forward-looking statements that are based on current expectations and assumptions, and involve risks and uncertainties some of which are set forth below.
Third Quarter Fiscal 2012
 
Net revenue for the third quarter of fiscal 2012 is expected to be in the range of $535 million and $550 million.  GAAP earnings per diluted share are expected to be in the range of $0.25 and $0.29. Non-GAAP earnings per diluted share are expected to be in the range of $0.38 and $0.42 and exclude $0.08 related to stock-based compensation expense, and $0.05 for the amortization of acquisition related intangibles, net of tax.
Full Year Fiscal 2012
 
Net revenue for fiscal 2012 is expected to increase by approximately 13 percent compared to fiscal 2011.  Autodesk anticipates fiscal 2012 GAAP and non-GAAP operating margins to increase by greater than 200 basis points compared to fiscal 2011.  Non-GAAP operating margin improvement excludes approximately 70 basis points of restructuring charges, negative 10 basis points of amortization of acquisition related intangibles, and negative 50 basis points of stock-based compensation expense.
Both third quarter fiscal 2012 and full year fiscal 2012 outlooks assume an annual effective tax rate of approximately 23 percent for GAAP results and approximately 25 percent for non-GAAP results.
Earnings Conference Call and Webcast
 
Autodesk will host its second quarter conference call today at 5:00 p.m. EDT. The live broadcast can be accessed at http://www.autodesk.com/investors. Supplemental financial information and prepared remarks for the conference call will be posted to the investor relations section of Autodesks website simultaneously with this press release.
 
 
 
3
 
 
The prepared remarks will not be read on the conference call.  The conference call will include only brief remarks followed by questions and answers.
NOTE:
A replay of the broadcast will be available at 7:00 pm EDT at http://www.autodesk.com/investors. This replay will be maintained on Autodesks website for at least 12 months.
Safe Harbor Statement
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including statements in the paragraphs under Business Outlook above, statements regarding anticipated market, segment, product and revenue trends, revenue, margin, earnings and cash flow improvement, and other statements regarding our expected strategies, market and products positions, performance, and results.  There are a significant number of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from statements made in this press release, including:  general market, political, economic and business conditions, our performance in particular geographies, including emerging economies, failure to successfully expand adoption of our products, failure to successfully incorporate sales of products suites into our overall sales strategy, failure to maintain cost reductions and productivity increases or otherwise control our expenses, slowing momentum in maintenance billings or revenues, difficulties encountered in integrating new or acquired businesses and technologies, the inability to identify and realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions, the financial and business condition of our reseller and distribution channels, fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates, the success of our foreign currency hedging program, failure to achieve sufficient sell-through in our channels for new or existing products, pricing pressure, unexpected fluctuations in our tax rate, the timing and degree of expected investments in growth and efficiency opportunities, changes in the timing of product releases and retirements, failure of key new applications to achieve anticipated levels of customer acceptance, failure to achieve continued success in technology advancements, interruptions or terminations in the business of Autodesk consultants, the expense and impact of legal or regulatory proceedings, and any unanticipated accounting charges.
 
 
 
4
 
 
Further information on potential factors that could affect the financial results of Autodesk are included in Autodesks report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 31, 2011 and Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 30, 2011, which are on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Autodesk does not assume any obligation to update the forward-looking statements provided to reflect events that occur or circumstances that exist after the date on which they were made.
About Autodesk
 
Autodesk, Inc., is a leader in , engineering and entertainment software. Customers across the manufacturing, architecture, building, construction, and media and entertainment industries  including the last 16 Academy Award winners for Best Visual Effects  use Autodesk software to design, visualize, and simulate their ideas. Since its introduction of AutoCAD software in 1982, Autodesk continues to develop the broadest portfolio of state-of-the-art software for global markets. For additional information about Autodesk, visit .
3D design
www.autodesk.com
 
Autodesk and AutoCAD are registered trademarks or trademarks of Autodesk, Inc., and/or its subsidiaries and/or affiliates in the USA and/or other countries. Academy Award is a registered trademark of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences. All other brand names, product names, or trademarks belong to their respective holders. Autodesk reserves the right to alter product and service offerings, and specifications and pricing at any time without notice, and is not responsible for typographical or graphical errors that may appear in this document.
 
 2011 Autodesk, Inc. All rights reserved.
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 1 of 6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 2 of 6
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 3 of 6
 
 
Autodesk, Inc.
Reconciliation of GAAP financial measures to non-GAAP financial measures
(In millions, except per share data)
To supplement our consolidated financial statements presented on a GAAP basis, Autodesk provides investors with certain non-GAAP measures including non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per share, non-GAAP cost of license and other revenue, non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP income from operations and non-GAAP provision for income taxes.These non-GAAP financial measures are adjusted to exclude certain costs, expenses, gains and losses, including stock-based compensation expense,amortization of purchased intangibles, restructuring charges, discrete tax provision items and related income tax expenses.See our reconciliation of GAAP financial measures to non-GAAP financial measures herein.We believe these exclusions are appropriate to enhance an overall understanding of our past financial performance and also our prospects for the future, as well as to facilitate comparisons with our historical operating results.These adjustments to our GAAP results are made with the intent of providing both management and investors a more complete understanding of Autodesk's underlying operational results and trends and our marketplace performance.For example, the non-GAAP results are an indication of our baseline performance before gains, losses or other charges that are considered by management to be outside our core operating results.In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures are among the primary indicators management uses as a basis for our planning and forecasting of future periods.
 
There are limitations in using non-GAAP financial measures because the non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies.The non-GAAP financial measures are limited in value because they exclude certain items that may have a material impact upon our reported financial results.The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.Investors should review the reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures as provided in the tables accompanying this press release.
The following table shows Autodesk's non-GAAP results reconciled to GAAP results included in this release.
 
(1) Earnings per share were computed independently for each of the periods presented; therefore the sum of the earnings per share amounts for the quarters may not equal the total for the year.
 
 
 
Page 4 of 6
 
 
 
 
 
Page 5 of 6
 
 
 
 
(1) To supplement our consolidated financial statements presented on a GAAP basis, Autodesk provides investors with certain non-GAAP measures including non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per share, non-GAAP cost of license and other revenue, non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP total spend, non-GAAP income from operations and non-GAAP provision for income taxes.  These non-GAAP financial measures are adjusted to exclude certain costs, expenses, gains and losses, including stock-based compensation expense, restructuring charges, amortization of purchased intangibles and related income tax expenses.  See our reconciliation of GAAP financial measures to non-GAAP financial measures herein.  We believe these exclusions are appropriate to
enhance an overall  understanding of our past financial performance and also our prospects for the future, as well as to facilitate comparisons with our historical operating results.
These adjustments to our GAAP results are made with the intent of providing both management and investors a more complete understanding of Autodesk's underlying operational results and trends and our marketplace performance.  For example, the non-GAAP results are an indication of our baseline performance before gains, losses or other charges that are considered by management to be outside our core operating results.  In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures are among the primary indicators management uses as a basis for our planning and forecasting of future periods. There are limitations in using non-GAAP financial measures because the non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies.  The non-GAAP financial measures are limited in value because they exclude certain items that may have a material impact upon our reported financial results.  The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.  Investors should review the reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures as provided in the tables accompanying Autodesk's press release.
 
Page 6 of 6

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
Autodesk is posting a copy of these prepared remarks and its press release to its investor Website.  These prepared remarks are offered to provide shareholders and analysts with additional time and detail for analyzing our results in advance of our quarterly conference call. As previously scheduled, the conference call will begin today, August 18, 2011 at 2:00 pm PDT (5:00 pm EDT) and will include only brief comments followed by questions and answers. These prepared remarks will not be read on the call.
 
To access the live broadcast of the question and answer session, please visit the Investor Relations section of Autodesks Website at www.autodesk.com/investor.  A complete reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP results is provided in the tables following these prepared remarks.
 
Second Quarter Fiscal 2012 Overview
 
Demand across all geographies and business segments led to strong revenue and EPS growth for our second quarter.  Growth continues to be led by our Asia Pacific region and our manufacturing segment achieved record quarterly revenue. We also experienced strong revenue growth in our AEC segment.  Sales of our suites also helped drive overall revenue growth.
 
 
 
1
 
 
Revenue Analysis
 
 
Total net revenue for the second quarter was $546 million, an increase of 16 percent compared to the second quarter last year as reported and 14 percent on a constant currency basis.  Total net revenue for the second quarter increased 3 percent sequentially as reported and 2 percent on a constant currency basis.
License and other revenue was $333 million, an increase of 19 percent compared to the second quarter last year, and 3 percent sequentially.
Revenue from commercial new licenses increased 11 percent compared to the second quarter last year, and 6 percent sequentially.
Maintenance revenue was a record high $213 million, an increase of 11 percent compared to the second quarter last year, and 4 percent sequentially.
Maintenance billings increased 37 percent compared to the second quarter last year.  Contributing to the growth was an increase in multi-year maintenance contracts.  Maintenance billings were flat sequentially.
Revenue by Geography
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
Revenue in EMEA was $212 million, an increase of 12 percent compared to the second quarter last year as reported and 13 percent on a constant currency basis.  EMEA revenue decreased 1 percent sequentially as reported and 3 percent on a constant currency basis.
Revenue in the Americas was $191 million, an increase of 13 percent compared to the second quarter last year and 5 percent sequentially.
Revenue in Asia Pacific was $143 million, an increase of 24 percent compared to the second quarter last year as reported and 16 percent on a constant currency basis.  Revenue in Asia Pacific increased 9 percent sequentially as reported and 6 percent on a constant currency basis.
 
Revenue from emerging economies was $88 million, an increase of 23 percent compared to the second quarter last year as reported and 18 percent on a constant currency basis.  Revenue from emerging economies increased 14 percent sequentially as reported and 12 percent on a constant currency basis.
Effective in the second quarter of 2012, we have changed the way we calculate constant currency growth rates.  Under the new methodology, all hedging gains and losses are removed from the calculation.  Previously we had not excluded hedging gains and losses from the prior period.  We believe this change is more useful to the users of our financial information as it more closely represents the underlying business growth rates.  All prior period comparative information has been revised to conform to the current methodology.  See discussion under Autodesks Foreign Currency Hedging Program and Calculation of Constant Currency Growth at the end of these Prepared Remarks for further details.
 
Revenue by Product Type
 
 
  Revenue by Product Type for periods prior to 1Q 2012 have been reclassified to conform with the current presentation.
1
Revenue from Flagship products was $308 million, or 56 percent of total revenue.  Revenue from Flagship products increased 7 percent compared to the second quarter last year, and decreased 5 percent sequentially.
 
 
 
3
 
 
Revenue from Suites was $158 million, or 29 percent of total revenue.  Revenue from Suites increased 45 percent compared to the second quarter last year, and 27 percent sequentially.  Suites revenue includes previously existing suites, such as our Inventor and Revit family suites, as well as recently launched design and creation suites.
Revenue from New and Adjacent products was $80 million, or 15 percent of total revenue.  Revenue from New and Adjacent products increased 5 percent compared to the second quarter last year, and 1 percent sequentially.
As our new and existing customers migrate from our stand-alone products, we anticipate that our revenue from Suites will increase as a percentage of revenue and that our revenue from our Flagship and New and Adjacent products will similarly decline as a percentage of revenue.
Revenue by Business Segment
 
 
Revenue from our Platform Solutions and Emerging Business (PSEB) segment was $199 million, an increase of 12 percent compared to the second quarter last year and a decrease of 6 percent sequentially. Combined revenue from AutoCAD and AutoCAD LT was $172 million, an increase of 6 percent compared to the second quarter last year, and a decrease of 11 percent sequentially.  AutoCAD LT revenue declined sequentially due to strong sales in the first quarter related to targeted product promotions.  Revenue from PSEB suites grew 111 percent compared to the second quarter last year and 77 percent sequentially off a small base driven by an increase in revenue from educational suites and the recently introduced Autodesk Design Suite.
Revenue from our Architecture, Engineering and Construction (AEC) business segment was $158 million, an increase of 19 percent compared to the second quarter last year, and 12 percent sequentially.  Revenue from our AEC suites increased 52 percent compared to the second quarter last year and 28 percent sequentially.
 
 
 
4
 
 
Revenue from our Manufacturing business segment was a record high of $136 million and increased 20 percent compared to the second quarter last year, and 10 percent sequentially.  Revenue from our Manufacturing suites increased 28 percent compared to the second quarter last year, and 17 percent sequentially.
Revenue from our Media and Entertainment business segment was $54 million, an increase of 9 percent compared to the second quarter last year, and 2 percent sequentially.  Revenue from our animation products including Maya, 3dsMax, and our Entertainment Creation Suites increased 15 percent compared to the second quarter last year and was flat sequentially.  As a reminder, our Entertainment Creation Suites were initially launched in the third quarter of fiscal 2010.  Revenue from Creative Finishing decreased 2 percent compared to the second quarter last year and increased 6 percent sequentially.
Margins and EPS Review
 
 
GAAP gross margin in the second quarter was 89 percent.  Non-GAAP gross margin in the second quarter was 91 percent.  The year-over-year decrease of both GAAP and non-GAAP gross margin is primarily related to an increase in our consulting business costs and maintenance support costs.
GAAP operating margin was 17 percent and increased 50 basis points compared to the second quarter last year.  GAAP operating margin increased 250 basis points sequentially.
 
 
 
5
 
 
Non-GAAP operating margin was 25 percent and increased 80 basis points compared to the second quarter last year.  The year-over-year increase in both GAAP and non-GAAP operating margin was driven by increased revenue.  Non-GAAP operating margin increased 290 basis points sequentially.  The sequential increase in both GAAP and non-GAAP operating margin was driven primarily by increased revenue.
 
GAAP operating expenses increased 14 percent year-over-year and were flat sequentially.  Non-GAAP operating expenses increased 14 percent year-over-year and decreased 1 percent sequentially. The year-over-year increase in both GAAP and non-GAAP operating expenses is primarily related to higher employee and information technology related costs.      
The second quarter effective tax rate was 24 percent for our GAAP results and 25 percent for our non-GAAP results.
Earnings per diluted share for the second quarter were $0.30 GAAP and $0.44 non-GAAP.
The share count used to compute basic net income per share was 229.4 million.  The share count used to compute diluted net income per share was 236.6 million.
A complete reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP results is provided in the tables following these prepared remarks.
 
Foreign Currency Impact
 
 
The foreign currency impact represents the U.S. Dollar impact of changes in foreign currency rates on our financial results as well as the impact of gains and losses from our hedging program.
 
 
 
6
 
 
Compared to the second quarter of last year, the impact of foreign currency exchange rates including the impact of our hedging program in the second quarter was $8 million favorable on revenue and $17 million unfavorable on cost of revenue and operating expenses.
Compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2012, the impact of foreign currency exchange rates and hedging was $7 million favorable on revenue and $4 million unfavorable on expenses.
 
Effective in the second quarter of fiscal 2012, we have changed the way we calculate foreign currency impact on total net revenue, and cost of revenue and operating expenses to include the impact of our hedging program on both the current and prior period.  We believe this change is more useful to the users of our financial information as it more fully reflects the impact of movements in foreign currency on our U.S. Dollar financial results.  All prior period comparative information has been revised to conform to the new  methodology.  See discussion under Autodesks Foreign Currency Hedging Program and Calculation of Constant Currency Growth at the end of these Prepared Remarks for further details.
 
Balance Sheet Items and Cash Review
 
 
Total cash and investments at the end of the second quarter were approximately $1.6 billion.
During the second quarter, Autodesk used $101 million to repurchase 2.5 million shares of common stock at an average price of $40.33 per share.
Cash flow from operating activities during the second quarter was $132 million, an increase of 18 percent compared to the second quarter last year and 3 percent sequentially.
 
 
 
7
 
 
Shippable backlog at the end of the second quarter was $25 million, an increase of $4 million compared to the second quarter last year, and flat sequentially.
Deferred revenue was a quarter-end record $642 million, an increase of 22 percent compared to the second quarter last year and 3 percent sequentially.  The year-over-year and sequential increase is primarily due to strong maintenance billings including an increase in multi-year maintenance agreements.
Total backlog at the end of the second quarter, including deferred revenue and shippable backlog orders was a quarter-end record $668 million, an increase of $120 million compared to the second quarter of last year and $20 million sequentially.
At the end of the second quarter, channel inventory was below two weeks.
Days sales outstanding (DSO) was 49 days, an increase of 5 days compared to the second quarter last year driven by a shift in billings linearity and strong subscription billings.  DSO increased 2 days sequentially. 
 
Business Outlook
 
Our guidance is based on our current expectations and the information we have available today, including currency exchange rates.
 
Third Quarter Fiscal 2012
 
 
Non-GAAP earnings per diluted share for the third quarter of fiscal 2012 exclude $0.08 related to stock-based compensation expense, and $0.05 for amortization of acquisition related intangibles, net of tax.
A portion of the projected euro and yen denominated net revenue for our third quarter fiscal 2012 has been hedged, which should help reduce the impact of currency fluctuations on our third quarter results.  However, over an extended period of time currency fluctuations will increasingly impact our results.
 
 
 
8
 
 
Full Year Fiscal 2012
 
Net revenue for fiscal 2012 is expected to increase by approximately 13 percent compared to fiscal 2011.  Autodesk anticipates fiscal 2012 GAAP and non-GAAP operating margins to increase by greater than 200 basis points compared to fiscal 2011.  Non-GAAP operating margin improvement excludes 70 basis points of restructuring charges, negative 10 basis points of amortization of acquisition related intangibles, and negative 50 basis points of stock-based compensation expense.
Both third quarter fiscal 2012 and full year fiscal 2012 outlooks assume an annual effective tax rate of approximately 23 percent for GAAP results and approximately 25 percent for non-GAAP results.
Autodesks Foreign Currency Hedging Program and Calculation of Constant Currency Growth
 
Given the recent foreign exchange volatility, we would like to provide a brief summary of how we handle foreign currency exchange hedging as well as a description of how we calculate constant currency growth rates.  A few points on our hedging program include:
 
When we report period-over-period growth rate percentages on a constant currency basis, we attempt to represent the changes in the underlying business operations by eliminating fluctuations caused by changes in foreign currency exchange rates as well as eliminating hedge gains or losses recorded within the current and comparative period.  However, when we calculate the foreign currency impact of exchange rates in the current and comparative period on our financial results (See table in above Foreign Currency Impact section) we include the U.S. Dollar impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates as well as the impact of gains and losses recorded as a result of our hedging program.
 
Autodesks Product Type Classification
 
The following represents Autodesks current view for product categorization. Autodesk will periodically make changes to this list.  This is not a complete list.
 
 
 
9
 
 
Flagship includes the following products:
 
 
Suites include the following products classes:
 
 
New and Adjacent includes the following products and services:
 
 
 
 
10
 
Safe Harbor Statement
 
These prepared remarks contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including statements in the paragraphs under Business Outlook above, statements regarding anticipated market, maintenance billings, and revenue trends, cost savings, revenue performance (including by geography, product and product type), margin improvement, market and product positions, the impact of foreign exchange hedges and other statements regarding our expected strategies, performance and results.  There are a significant number of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from statements made in these remarks, including:  general market, political, economic and business conditions, our performance in particular geographies, including emerging economies, failure to successfully expand adoption of our products, failure to successfully incorporate sales of products suites into our overall sales strategy, failure to maintain cost reductions and productivity increases or otherwise control our expenses, slowing momentum in maintenance billings or revenues, difficulties encountered in integrating new or acquired businesses and technologies, the inability to identify and realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions, the financial and business condition of our reseller and distribution channels, fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates, the success of our foreign currency hedging program, failure to achieve sufficient sell-through in our channels for new or existing products, pricing pressure, unexpected fluctuations in our tax rate, the timing and degree of expected investments in growth and efficiency opportunities, changes in the timing of product releases and retirements, failure of key new applications to achieve anticipated levels of customer acceptance, failure to achieve continued success in technology advancements, interruptions or terminations in the business of Autodesk consultants, the expense or impact of legal or regulatory proceedings, and any unanticipated accounting charges.
Further information on potential factors that could affect the financial results of Autodesk are included in Autodesks report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 31, 2011 and Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 30, 2011, which are on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Autodesk does not assume any obligation to update the forward-looking statements provided to reflect events that occur or circumstances that exist after the date on which they were made.
 2011 Autodesk, Inc. All rights reserved.
 
11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 1 of 4
 
 
 
 
(1) To supplement our consolidated financial statements presented on a GAAP basis, Autodesk provides investors with certain non-GAAP measures including non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per share, non-GAAP cost of license and other revenue, non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP total spend, non-GAAP income from operations and non-GAAP provision for income taxes.  These non-GAAP financial measures are adjusted to exclude certain costs, expenses, gains and losses, including stock-based compensation expense, restructuring charges, amortization of purchased intangibles and related income tax expenses.  See our reconciliation of GAAP financial measures to non-GAAP financial measures herein.  We believe these exclusions are appropriate to
enhance an overall  understanding of our past financial performance and also our prospects for the future, as well as to facilitate comparisons with our historical operating results.
These adjustments to our GAAP results are made with the intent of providing both management and investors a more complete understanding of Autodesk's underlying operational results and trends and our marketplace performance.  For example, the non-GAAP results are an indication of our baseline performance before gains, losses or other charges that are considered by management to be outside our core operating results.  In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures are among the primary indicators management uses as a basis for our planning and forecasting of future periods. There are limitations in using non-GAAP financial measures because the non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies.  The non-GAAP financial measures are limited in value because they exclude certain items that may have a material impact upon our reported financial results.  The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.  Investors should review the reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures as provided in the tables accompanying Autodesk's press release.
 
 
 
Page 2 of 4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 3 of 4
 
 
 
 
 
(1) To supplement our consolidated financial statements presented on a GAAP basis, Autodesk provides investors with certain non-GAAP measures including non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per share, non-GAAP cost of license and other revenue, non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP total spend, non-GAAP income from operations and non-GAAP provision for income taxes.  These non-GAAP financial measures are adjusted to exclude certain costs, expenses, gains and losses, including stock-based compensation expense, restructuring charges, amortization of purchased intangibles and related income tax expenses.  See our reconciliation of GAAP financial measures to non-GAAP financial measures herein.  We believe these exclusions are appropriate to
enhance an overall understanding of our past financial performance and also our prospects for the future, as well as to facilitate comparisons with our historical operating results.
These adjustments to our GAAP results are made with the intent of providing both management and investors a more complete understanding of Autodesk's underlying operational results and trends and our marketplace performance.  For example, the non-GAAP results are an indication of our baseline performance before gains, losses or other charges that are considered by management to be outside our core operating results.  In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures are among the primary indicators management uses as a basis for our planning and forecasting of future periods. There are limitations in using non-GAAP financial measures because the non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies.  The non-GAAP financial measures are limited in value because they exclude certain items that may have a material impact upon our reported financial results.  The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.  Investors should review the reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures as provided in the tables accompanying Autodesk's press release.
 
 
Page 4 of 4


