FILE:ADSK/ADSK-8K-20111115161317.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
[  ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[  ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On November 15, 2011, Autodesk, Inc. (Autodesk or the Company) issued a press release and prepared remarks reporting financial results for the third quarter ended October 31, 2011.  The press release and prepared remarks are furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference.
 
These exhibits shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
To supplement Autodesks consolidated financial statements presented on a GAAP basis, the press release and prepared remarks furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, respectively, provide investors with certain non-GAAP measures, including but not limited to historical non-GAAP net earnings and historical and future non-GAAP net earnings per diluted share. For our internal budgeting and resource allocation process, Autodesks management uses non-GAAP measures that do not include: (a) stock-based compensation expenses, (b) amortization of purchased intangibles and purchases of technology, (c) restructuring charges, (d) discrete tax items, and (e) the income tax effects on the difference between GAAP and non-GAAP costs and expenses.  Autodesks management uses non-GAAP measures in making operating decisions because we believe the measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding Autodesks earning potential. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures facilitate comparisons to our and our competitors historical results and operating guidance.
 
As described above, Autodesk excludes the following items from its non-GAAP measures:
 
A. Autodesk excludes stock-based compensation expenses from its non-GAAP measures primarily because they are non-cash expenses and management finds it useful to exclude certain non-cash charges to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods.
Stock-based compensation expenses.
 
B. Autodesk incurs amortization of acquisition-related purchased intangible assets, primarily in connection with its acquisition of certain businesses and technologies. The amortization of purchased intangibles varies depending on the level of acquisition activity, and management finds it useful to exclude these variable charges to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods.
Amortization of purchased intangibles and purchases of technology.
 
C. These expenses are associated with realigning our business strategies based on current economic conditions. In connection with these restructuring actions, we recognize costs related to termination benefits for former employees whose positions were eliminated, and the closure of facilities and cancelation of certain contracts. We exclude these charges because these expenses are not reflective of ongoing operating results in the current period.
Restructuring charges.
 
D. Autodesk excludes its GAAP tax provision, including discrete items, from its non-GAAP measure of income, and includes a non-GAAP tax provision based upon its projected annual non-GAAP effective tax rate. Management believes this approach assists investors in understanding the tax provision and the effective tax rate related to the Companys ongoing operations.
Discrete tax items.
 
E. The income tax effects that are excluded from the non-GAAP measures relate to the tax impact on the difference between GAAP and non-GAAP costs and expenses, primarily due to differences in the timing of when income tax benefits are recognized for stock compensation and purchased intangibles for GAAP and non-GAAP measures.
Income tax effects on the difference between GAAP and non-GAAP costs and expenses.
 
 
 
 
 
There are limitations in using non-GAAP financial measures because the non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. In addition, the non-GAAP financial measures are limited in value because they exclude certain items that may have a material impact upon our reported financial results. Management compensates for these limitations by analyzing current and future results on a GAAP basis as well as a non-GAAP basis and also by providing GAAP measures in our earnings release and prepared remarks. The presentation of non-GAAP financial information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The non-GAAP financial measures are meant to supplement, and be viewed in conjunction with, GAAP financial measures. Investors should review the information regarding non-GAAP financial measures provided in our press release and prepared remarks.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)  Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
--
SAN RAFAEL, Calif., November 15, 2011
(NASDAQ: ADSK) today reported financial results for the third quarter of fiscal year 2012.
Autodesk, Inc.
 
 
Our business grew 15% in the third quarter as more and more people turned to Autodesk to help solve their most pressing design and engineering challenges, said , Autodesk president and CEO.  Our strong revenue gains coupled with continued cost controls resulted in a healthy improvement in profitability and cash flow from operations. We experienced double-digit growth across all geographies, with particular strength in Asia Pacific.  All of our businesses performed well, driven by continued adoption of our suites.
Carl Bass
 
 
 
1
 
 
Third Quarter Operational Overview
 
EMEA revenue was $202 million, an increase of 10 percent compared to the third quarter last year as reported and 8 percent on a constant currency basis.  Revenue in the Americas was $200 million, an increase of 12 percent compared to the third quarter last year.  Revenue in Asia Pacific was $146 million, an increase of 28 percent compared to the third quarter last year as reported and 19 percent on a constant currency basis.  Revenue from emerging economies was $87 million, an increase of 15 percent compared to the third quarter last year as reported and 11 percent on a constant currency basis.  Revenue from emerging economies represented 16 percent of total revenue in the third quarter.
 
Revenue from the Platform Solutions and Emerging Business segment was $210 million, an increase of 21 percent compared to the third quarter last year.  Revenue from the Architecture, Engineering and Construction business segment was $152 million, an increase of 12 percent compared to the third quarter last year.  Revenue from the Manufacturing business segment was $134 million, an increase of 14 percent compared to the third quarter last year.  Revenue from the Media and Entertainment business segment was $53 million, an increase of 6 percent compared to the third quarter last year.
 
We continue to advance on our plan of driving revenue growth and expanding our operating margin, controlling our costs, and making appropriate investments in the future of our business, said Mark Hawkins, Autodesk Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer.  Our cash flow from operating activities remained strong, growing 20 percent, and helped fund a number of small, but important, business and technology acquisitions and strategic investments during the quarter.  Our balance sheet remains solid with over $1.5 billion in cash and marketable securities and no debt.
 
Business Outlook
 
The following statements are forward-looking statements that are based on current expectations and assumptions, and involve risks and uncertainties some of which are set forth below.
 
 
2
 
 
Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2012
 
 
Non-GAAP earnings per diluted share exclude $0.10 related to stock-based compensation expense, and $0.06 for the amortization of acquisition related intangibles, net of tax.
 
Full Year Fiscal 2012
 
 
Non-GAAP earnings per diluted share exclude $0. related to stock-based compensation expense, and $0. for the amortization of acquisition related intangibles, net of tax.
32
21
 
Full Year Fiscal 2013
 
Autodesks fiscal 2013 guidance assumes a continuation of the current economic environment and foreign exchange currency rate environment.
 
Net revenue for fiscal 2013 is expected to increase by at least 10 percent compared to fiscal 2012.  Autodesk anticipates fiscal 2013 GAAP operating margin to increase by approximately 150 basis points and non-GAAP operating margin to increase by approximately 200 basis points compared to fiscal 2012.  A reconciliation between the GAAP and non-GAAP projections for fiscal 2013 is provided in the tables following this press release.
 
Earnings Conference Call and Webcast
 
Autodesk will host its third quarter conference call today at 5:00 p.m. ET. The live broadcast can be accessed at http://www.autodesk.com/investors. Supplemental financial information and prepared remarks for the conference call will be posted to the investor relations section of Autodesks website simultaneously with this press release.
 
 
 
3
 
 
The prepared remarks will not be read on the conference call.  The conference call will include only brief remarks followed by questions and answers.
NOTE:
 
A replay of the broadcast will be available at 7:00 pm ET at http://www.autodesk.com/investors. This replay will be maintained on Autodesks website for at least 12 months.
 
Safe Harbor Statement
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including statements in the paragraphs under Business Outlook above, statements regarding anticipated market, segment, product and revenue trends, revenue, margin, earnings and cash flow improvement, and other statements regarding our expected strategies, market and products positions, performance, and results.  There are a significant number of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from statements made in this press release, including:  general market, political, economic and business conditions, our performance in particular geographies, including emerging economies, failure to successfully incorporate sales of products suites into our overall sales strategy, failure to successfully expand adoption of our products, failure to maintain cost reductions and productivity increases or otherwise control our expenses, slowing momentum in maintenance billings or revenues, difficulties encountered in integrating new or acquired businesses and technologies, the inability to identify and realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions, the financial and business condition of our reseller and distribution channels, fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates, the success of our foreign currency hedging program, failure to achieve sufficient sell-through in our channels for new or existing products, pricing pressure, unexpected fluctuations in our tax rate, the timing and degree of expected investments in growth and efficiency opportunities, changes in the timing of product releases and retirements, failure of key new applications to achieve anticipated levels of customer acceptance, failure to achieve continued success in technology advancements, interruptions or terminations in the business of Autodesk consultants, the expense and impact of legal or regulatory proceedings, and any unanticipated accounting charges.
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
Further information on potential factors that could affect the financial results of Autodesk are included in Autodesks report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 31, 2011 and Forms 10-Q for the quarters ended April 30 and July 31, 2011, which are on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Autodesk does not assume any obligation to update the forward-looking statements provided to reflect events that occur or circumstances that exist after the date on which they were made.
 
About Autodesk
 
Autodesk, Inc., is a leader in , engineering and entertainment software. Customers across the manufacturing, architecture, building, construction, and media and entertainment industries  including the last 16 Academy Award winners for Best Visual Effects  use Autodesk software to design, visualize, and simulate their ideas. Since its introduction of AutoCAD software in 1982, Autodesk continues to develop the broadest portfolio of state-of-the-art software for global markets. For additional information about Autodesk, visit .
3D design
www.autodesk.com
 
Autodesk and AutoCAD are registered trademarks or trademarks of Autodesk, Inc., and/or its subsidiaries and/or affiliates in the USA and/or other countries. Academy Award is a registered trademark of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences. All other brand names, product names, or trademarks belong to their respective holders. Autodesk reserves the right to alter product and service offerings, and specifications and pricing at any time without notice, and is not responsible for typographical or graphical errors that may appear in this document.
 
 2011 Autodesk, Inc. All rights reserved.
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following table shows Autodesk's non-GAAP results reconciled to GAAP results included in this release.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reconciliation for Fiscal 2013
:
 
The following is a reconciliation of anticipated fiscal 2013 GAAP and non-GAAP operating margins:
 
 
Reconciliation for Long Term Operating Margins:
 
Autodesk is not able to provide targets for our long term (ending with fiscal year 2015) GAAP operating margins at this time because of the difficulty of estimating certain items that are excluded from non-GAAP that affect operating margin, such as charges related to stock-based compensation expense and amortization of acquisition related tangibles.
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
Autodesk is posting a copy of these prepared remarks and its press release to its investor website.  These prepared remarks are offered to provide shareholders and analysts with additional time and detail for analyzing our results in advance of our quarterly conference call. As previously scheduled, the conference call will begin today, November 15, 2011 at 2:00 pm PT (5:00 pm ET) and will include only brief comments followed by questions and answers. These prepared remarks will not be read on the call.
 
To access the live broadcast of the question and answer session, please visit the Investor Relations section of Autodesks website at www.autodesk.com/investor.  A complete reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP results is provided in the tables following these prepared remarks.
Third Quarter Fiscal 2012 Overview
 
Strong year-over-year revenue growth was driven by double-digit growth across all major geographies, led by Asia Pacific (APAC).  All business segments performed well driven by growth in revenue from our suites products.  The strong revenue growth combined with continued cost controls led to solid growth in year-over-year profitability and cash flow from operations in the third quarter.
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
Revenue Analysis
 
 
Total net revenue for the third quarter was $549 million, an increase of 15 percent compared to the third quarter last year as reported and 12 percent on a constant currency basis.  Total net revenue for the third quarter was flat sequentially as reported and declined 1 percent on a constant currency basis.
License and other revenue was $331 million, an increase of 18 percent compared to the third quarter last year, and was flat sequentially.
Revenue from commercial new licenses increased 11 percent compared to the third quarter last year, and decreased 5 percent sequentially.
Maintenance revenue was a record high $217 million, an increase of 12 percent compared to the third quarter last year, and 2 percent sequentially.
Net maintenance billings increased 18 percent compared to the third quarter last year and decreased 14 percent sequentially.  The sequential decrease relates to strong maintenance billings in the second quarter, which benefited from an increase in multi-year maintenance contracts.  The sequential decrease also relates to typical seasonality.
 
 
 
2
 
 
Revenue by Geography
 
 
Revenue in EMEA was $202 million, an increase of 10 percent compared to the third quarter last year as reported and 8 percent on a constant currency basis.  EMEA revenue decreased 5 percent sequentially as reported and 7 percent on a constant currency basis.  Our EMEA region experienced particular strength in northern Europe, partially offset by weakness in southern Europe.  From a divisional perspective, our Architecture, Engineering and Construction (AEC) business segment had a strong quarter in EMEA.
 
Revenue in the Americas was $200 million, an increase of 12 percent compared to the third quarter last year and 5 percent sequentially.  Our Americas team posted another quarter of double-digit revenue growth with strength in our manufacturing business segment and continued success in penetrating major accounts.
Revenue in APAC was $146 million, an increase of 28 percent compared to the third quarter last year as reported and 19 percent on a constant currency basis.  Revenue in APAC increased 2 percent sequentially as reported and was flat on a constant currency basis.  We experienced strength across most countries and across our business segments in APAC.  Growth in APAC was bolstered by a large transaction of approximately $11 million, which was recorded in our PSEB business segment.
 
Revenue from emerging economies was $87 million, an increase of 15 percent compared to the third quarter last year as reported and 11 percent on a constant currency basis.  Revenue from emerging economies decreased 1 percent sequentially as reported and 2 percent on a constant currency basis.
 
 
 
3
 
Revenue by Product Type
 
 
  Revenue by Product Type for periods prior to 1Q 2012 have been presented to conform with the current presentation.
1
Revenue from Flagship products was $311 million, or 57 percent of total revenue.  Revenue from Flagship products increased 8 percent compared to the third quarter last year, and 1 percent sequentially.
Revenue from Suites was $151 million, or 27 percent of total revenue.  Revenue from Suites increased 36 percent compared to the third quarter last year, and decreased 4 percent sequentially.  The sequential decline is against a strong second quarter, which benefited from promotional activity in conjunction with the initial Design Suites launch.  Suites revenue includes previously existing suites, such as our Inventor and Revit family suites, as well as recently launched design and creation suites.
Revenue from New and Adjacent products was $87 million, or 16 percent of total revenue.  Revenue from New and Adjacent products increased 11 percent compared to the third quarter last year, and 8 percent sequentially.
As our new and existing customers migrate from our stand-alone products to Suites, we anticipate that our revenue from Suites will increase as a percentage of total revenue and that our revenue from our Flagship and New and Adjacent products will similarly decline as a percentage of total revenue.
 
 
 
4
 
Revenue by Business Segment
 
 
Revenue from our PSEB segment was $210 million, an increase of 21 percent compared to the third quarter last year and 6 percent sequentially. Combined revenue from AutoCAD and AutoCAD LT was $171 million, an increase of 8 percent compared to the third quarter last year, and was flat sequentially.  Revenue from PSEB suites grew 145 percent compared to the third quarter last year and 14 percent sequentially off a small base driven by an increase in revenue from educational suites and the recently introduced Autodesk Design Suites.
Revenue from our Architecture, Engineering and Construction (AEC) business segment was $152 million, an increase of 12 percent compared to the third quarter last year, and a decrease of 4 percent sequentially.  Revenue from our AEC suites increased 40 percent compared to the third quarter last year and decreased 8 percent sequentially.  Our AEC business had another quarter of double-digit growth, led by growth in APAC.  Also contributing to our AEC growth was a record quarter in our government vertical. We see numerous opportunities for growth in the government space due to our strong value proposition.  Were making progress in penetrating large federal government agencies, state DOTs, and this quarter we saw particular strength in penetrating utility companies.
Revenue from our Manufacturing business segment was $134 million, an increase of 14 percent compared to the third quarter last year, and a decrease of 2 percent sequentially.  Revenue from our Manufacturing suites increased 15 percent compared to the third quarter last year, and decreased 7 percent sequentially. Our manufacturing business registered another solid quarter of growth driven by continued adoption of our core design products and suites, as well as strong growth in our simulation offerings and Vault, our product data management solution. 
 
 
 
5
 
 
Revenue from our Media and Entertainment (M&E) business segment was $53 million, an increase of 6 percent compared to the third quarter last year, and a decrease of 2 percent sequentially.  Revenue from our animation products including Maya, 3dsMax, and our Entertainment Creation Suites increased 15 percent compared to the third quarter last year and 3 percent sequentially.  Our M&E business experienced particular strength in APAC and our games middleware solutions are seeing broad adoption in the market place.  Revenue from Creative Finishing decreased 13 percent compared to the third quarter last year and 14 percent sequentially.
Margins and EPS Review
 
 
GAAP gross margin in the third quarter was 89 percent.  Non-GAAP gross margin in the third quarter was 91 percent.  The year-over-year decrease of both GAAP and non-GAAP gross margin is primarily related to an increase in our consulting business costs.
GAAP operating expenses increased 11 percent year-over-year and 1 percent sequentially.  Non-GAAP operating expenses increased 9 percent year-over-year and 2 percent sequentially. The year-over-year increase in operating expenses is primarily related to higher employee related costs and higher professional fees.     
GAAP operating margin was 16 percent and increased 190 basis points compared to the third quarter last year.  GAAP operating margin decreased 100 basis points sequentially.
 
 
 
6
 
 
Non-GAAP operating margin was 25 percent and increased 360 basis points compared to the third quarter last year.  The year-over-year increase in both GAAP and non-GAAP operating margin was driven primarily by increased revenue.  Non-GAAP operating margin decreased 80 basis points sequentially.  The sequential decrease in both GAAP and non-GAAP operating margin was driven primarily by higher employee related costs.
The third quarter effective tax rate was 20 percent for our GAAP results and 25 percent for our non-GAAP results.
Earnings per diluted share for the third quarter were $0.32 GAAP and $0.44 non-GAAP.
The share count used to compute basic net income per share was 227.1 million.  The share count used to compute diluted net income per share was 230.7 million.
A complete reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP results is provided in the tables following these prepared remarks.
 
Foreign Currency Impact
 
 
The foreign currency impact represents the U.S. Dollar impact of changes in foreign currency rates on our financial results as well as the impact of gains and losses from our hedging program.
Compared to the third quarter of last year, the impact of foreign currency exchange rates including the impact of our hedging program was $12 million favorable on revenue and $12 million unfavorable on cost of revenue and operating expenses.
 
 
 
7
 
 
Compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2012, the impact of foreign currency exchange rates and hedging was $7 million favorable on revenue and $1 million unfavorable on expenses.
 
Balance Sheet Items and Cash Review
 
 
Total cash and investments at the end of the third quarter were approximately $1.5 billion.  The slight sequential decrease was driven by the use of cash for acquisitions, as well as stock repurchases in the third quarter.  In the third quarter we closed 10 small, but strategically important, business and technology acquisitions totaling close to $90 million (net of cash acquired), of which, approximately $27 million was for technology acquisitions that are classified as capital expenditures in our cash flow statement.  Capital expenditures during the third quarter were $36 million, which includes approximately $27 million in technology acquisitions.
During the third quarter, Autodesk used $94 million to repurchase 3.5 million shares of common stock at an average price of $26.93 per share.
Cash flow from operating activities during the third quarter was $138 million, an increase of 20 percent compared to the third quarter last year and 4 percent sequentially.
Days sales outstanding (DSO) was 43 days, a decrease of 3 days compared to the third quarter last year and is primarily the result of customer mix and the resulting impact on payment terms, as well as lower past due balances.  DSO decreased 6 days sequentially primarily because of lower deferred revenue due to seasonally lower subscription billings as well as customer mix and the resulting impact on payment terms. 
 
 
 
8
 
  
Deferred revenue was $620 million, an increase of 22 percent compared to the third quarter last year and a decline of 4 percent sequentially.  The year-over-year increase is primarily due to strong year-over-year growth in maintenance billings.  The sequential decrease is primarily related to a sequential decrease in maintenance billings due to strong billings in the second quarter, as well as typical seasonality.
Shippable backlog at the end of the third quarter was $22 million, an increase of $6 million compared to the third quarter last year, and a decrease of $3 million sequentially.
At the end of the third quarter, channel inventory was approximately 1.5 weeks.  In FY13, Autodesk is planning to make certain new licenses available through electronic delivery.  In anticipation of this move, we have initiated a plan to further reduce inventory in the channel.  Channel inventory was reduced by approximately 0.5 weeks, or approximately $10 million, in the third quarter in conjunction with this initiative.  We plan to further reduce inventory in the channel in the fourth quarter by approximately the same amount.
Business Outlook
 
Our guidance is based on our current expectations and on the information we have available today, including currency exchange rates.
 
Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2012
 
 
Non-GAAP earnings per diluted share exclude $0.10 related to stock-based compensation expense, and $0.06 for the amortization of acquisition related intangibles, net of tax.
The majority of the projected euro and yen denominated net revenue for our fourth quarter fiscal 2012 has been hedged, which should help reduce the impact of currency fluctuations on our fourth quarter results.  However, over an extended period of time, currency fluctuations will increasingly impact our results.
 
 
 
9
 
 
Full Year Fiscal 2012
 
 
Non-GAAP earnings per diluted share exclude $0.32 related to stock-based compensation expense, and $0.21 for the amortization of acquisition related intangibles, net of tax.
Full Year Fiscal 2013
 
Autodesks fiscal 2013 guidance assumes a continuation of the current economic environment and foreign exchange currency rate environment.
Net revenue for fiscal 2013 is expected to increase by at least 10 percent compared to fiscal 2012.  Autodesk anticipates fiscal 2013 GAAP operating margin to increase by approximately 150 basis points and non-GAAP operating margin to increase by approximately 200 basis points compared to fiscal 2012. A reconciliation between the GAAP and non-GAAP projections for fiscal 2013 is provided in the tables following these prepared remarks.
Over an extended period of time, currency fluctuations will increasingly impact our results. We hedge our net exposures using a four quarter rolling layered hedge program.  As such, a portion of the projected euro and yen denominated net revenue for our fiscal 2013 has been hedged.  The closer to the current time period, the more we are hedged.  See below for more details on our foreign currency hedging program.
Autodesks Foreign Currency Hedging Program and Calculation of Constant Currency Growth
 
Given the recent foreign exchange volatility, we would like to provide a brief summary of how we handle foreign currency exchange hedging as well as a description of how we calculate constant currency growth rates.  A few points on our hedging program include:
 
 
 
10
 
 
 
 
When we report period-over-period growth rate percentages on a constant currency basis, we attempt to represent the changes in the underlying business operations by eliminating fluctuations caused by changes in foreign currency exchange rates as well as eliminating hedge gains or losses recorded within the current and comparative period.  However, when we calculate the foreign currency impact of exchange rates in the current and comparative period on our financial results (See table in above Foreign Currency Impact section) we include the U.S. Dollar impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates as well as the impact of gains and losses recorded as a result of our hedging program.
Autodesks Product Type Classification
 
The following represents Autodesks current view for product categorization. Autodesk will periodically make changes to this list.  This is not a complete list.
 
 
Flagship includes the following products:
 
 
 
 
11
 
 
 
 
Suites include the following products classes:
 
 
New and Adjacent includes the following products and services:
 
 
 
 
12
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement
 
These prepared remarks contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including statements in the paragraphs under Business Outlook above, statements regarding anticipated revenue performance and trends (including by geography, product, product type, and end user), electronic product delivery and the related reduction of channel inventory, the impact of foreign exchange hedges and other statements regarding our expected strategies, performance and results.  There are a significant number of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from statements made in these remarks, including: general market, political, economic and business conditions, our performance in particular geographies, including emerging economies, failure to successfully incorporate sales of products suites into our overall sales strategy, failure to successfully expand adoption of our products, failure to maintain cost reductions and productivity increases or otherwise control our expenses, slowing momentum in maintenance billings or revenues, difficulties encountered in integrating new or acquired businesses and technologies, the inability to identify and realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions, the financial and business condition of our reseller and distribution channels, fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates, the success of our foreign currency hedging program, failure to achieve sufficient sell-through in our channels for new or existing products, pricing pressure, unexpected fluctuations in our tax rate, the timing and degree of expected investments in growth and efficiency opportunities, changes in the timing of product releases and retirements, failure of key new applications to achieve anticipated levels of customer acceptance, failure to achieve continued success in technology advancements, interruptions or terminations in the business of Autodesk consultants, the expense or impact of legal or regulatory proceedings, and any unanticipated accounting charges.
Further information on potential factors that could affect the financial results of Autodesk are included in Autodesks report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 31, 2011 and Forms 10-Q for the quarters ended April 30 and July 31, 2011, which are on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Autodesk does not assume any obligation to update the forward-looking statements provided to reflect events that occur or circumstances that exist after the date on which they were made.
 2011 Autodesk, Inc. All rights reserved.
 
 
13
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reconciliation for Fiscal 2013
:
 
 
Reconciliation for Long Term Operating Margins:
 
Autodesk is not able to provide targets for our long term (ending with fiscal year 2015) GAAP operating margins at this time because of the difficulty of estimating certain items that are excluded from non-GAAP that affect operating margin, such as charges related to stock-based compensation expense and amortization of acquisition related tangibles.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


