FILE:ADSK/ADSK-8K-20110927160258.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appointment of Principal Accounting Officer
On September 22, 2011, the Board of Directors of Autodesk, Inc. (the "Company") appointed Pamela Strayer, the Company's current Vice President, Corporate Controller, as Principal Accounting Officer. Ms. Strayer will replace Mark Hawkins as the Company's Principal Accounting Officer. Mr. Hawkins will continue to serve as the Company's Chief Financial Officer and Principal Financial Officer. Ms. Strayer's appointment was effective September 22, 2011.
Ms. Strayer, 43, has served as Vice President, Corporate Controller of the Company since July 2008. Previously, Ms. Strayer served as Senior Director, Corporate Controller from October 2007 to July 2008, and Senior Director, Assistant Corporate Controller from May 2005 to October 2007.
Ms. Strayer has no family relationships with any director, executive officer, or person nominated or chosen by Autodesk to become a director or executive officer of Autodesk. Ms. Strayer is not a party to any transaction required to be disclosed pursuant to Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
Ms. Strayer will continue working under her existing compensation arrangement. Ms. Strayer has not entered into any material plan, contract, arrangement or amendment in connection with her appointment as Principal Accounting Officer. Ms. Strayer will not receive any grant or award as a result of her appointment.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: September 27, 2011


