FILE:ADSK/ADSK-8K-20110224160544.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On February 24, 2011, Autodesk, Inc. (Autodesk or the Company) issued a press release and prepared remarks reporting financial results for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended January 31, 2011.  The press release and prepared remarks are furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference.
 
These exhibits shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
To supplement Autodesks consolidated financial statements presented on a GAAP basis, the press release and prepared remarks furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, respectively, provide investors with certain non-GAAP measures, including but not limited to historical non-GAAP net earnings and historical and future non-GAAP net earnings per diluted share. For our internal budgeting and resource allocation process, Autodesks management uses non-GAAP measures that do not include: (a) stock-based compensation expenses, (b) amortization of purchased intangibles and purchases of technology, (c) goodwill impairment, (d) restructuring charges, (e) establishment of a valuation allowance on certain net deferred tax assets, (f) discrete tax items, and (g) the income tax effects on the difference between GAAP and non-GAAP costs and expenses.  Autodesks management uses non-GAAP measures in making operating decisions because we believe the measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding Autodesks earning potential. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures facilitate comparisons to our and our competitors historical results and operating guidance.
 
As described above, Autodesk excludes the following items from its non-GAAP measures:
 
A. Autodesk excludes stock-based compensation expenses from its non-GAAP measures primarily because they are non-cash expenses and management finds it useful to exclude certain non-cash charges to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods.
Stock-based compensation expenses.
 
B. Autodesk incurs amortization of acquisition-related purchased intangible assets, primarily in connection with its acquisition of certain businesses and technologies. The amortization of purchased intangibles varies depending on the level of acquisition activity, and management finds it useful to exclude these variable charges to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods.
Amortization of purchased intangibles and purchases of technology.
 
C. This is a non-cash charge to write-down goodwill to fair value when there was an indication that the asset was impaired. As explained above, management finds it useful to exclude certain non-cash charges to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods.
Goodwill impairment.
 
D. These expenses are associated with realigning our business strategies based on current economic conditions. In connection with these restructuring actions, we recognize costs related to termination benefits for former employees whose positions were eliminated, and the closure of facilities and cancelation of certain contracts. We exclude these charges because these expenses are not reflective of ongoing operating results in the current period.
Restructuring charges.
 
E. This is a non-cash charge to record a valuation allowance on certain deferred tax assets. As explained above, management finds it useful to exclude certain non-cash charges to assess the appropriate level of various expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods.
Establishment of a valuation allowance on certain net deferred tax assets.
 
 
 
 
 
 
F. Autodesk excludes its GAAP tax provision, including discrete items, from its non-GAAP measure of income, and includes a non-GAAP tax provision based upon its projected annual non-GAAP effective tax rate. Management believes this approach assists investors in understanding the tax provision and the effective tax rate related to the Companys ongoing operations.
Discrete tax items.
 
G. The income tax effects that are excluded from the non-GAAP measures relate to the tax impact on the difference between GAAP and non-GAAP costs and expenses, primarily due to differences in the timing of when income tax benefits are recognized for stock compensation and purchased intangibles for GAAP and non-GAAP measures.
Income tax effects on the difference between GAAP and non-GAAP costs and expenses.
 
There are limitations in using non-GAAP financial measures because the non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. In addition, the non-GAAP financial measures are limited in value because they exclude certain items that may have a material impact upon our reported financial results. Management compensates for these limitations by analyzing current and future results on a GAAP basis as well as a non-GAAP basis and also by providing GAAP measures in our earnings release and prepared remarks. The presentation of non-GAAP financial information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted account ing principles in the United States. The non-GAAP financial measures are meant to supplement, and be viewed in conjunction with, GAAP financial measures. Investors should review the information regarding non-GAAP financial measures provided in our press release and prepared remarks.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)  Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date:  February 24, 2011
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
-- (NASDAQ: ADSK) today reported financial results for the fourth quarter and full fiscal year 2011.
SAN RAFAEL, Calif., February 24, 2011
Autodesk, Inc.
 
 
We closed the year with solid momentum and double-digit quarterly revenue growth in all of our geographies and all of our business segments," said , Autodesk president and CEO.  Were seeing a global increase in demand for 3D design, engineering, and entertainment tools.  Demand for our Inventor software helped deliver record quarterly revenue in our Manufacturing segment, and record quarterly sales of our Revit family of products led to strong growth in our Architecture, Engineering and Construction segment.
Carl Bass
 
 
 
1
 
Our fourth quarter results topped a solid year of growth for Autodesk, said Mark Hawkins, Autodesk Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer.  In addition to diversified revenue growth in the quarter, we generated strong cash flow from operations, record maintenance billings, and ended the quarter with a record balance for deferred revenue.  We achieved significant operating margin improvement for the fiscal year despite higher than expected performance-based compensation expense due to our over performance on revenue for the year.  With close to $1.5 billion in cash and marketable securities and no debt, our balance sheet is very strong.
Fourth Quarter Operational Overview
EMEA revenue was $212 million and increased 13 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year as reported and 22 percent on a constant currency basis.  EMEA revenue increased 16 percent sequentially as reported and 14 percent on a constant currency basis.
Revenue in the Americas was $193 million and increased 15 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year and 7 percent sequentially.
Revenue in Asia Pacific was $123 million and increased 22 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year as reported and 20 percent on a constant currency basis.  Revenue in Asia Pacific increased 7 percent sequentially as reported and 5 percent on a constant currency basis.
 
Revenue from emerging economies was $85 million, an increase of 16 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year as reported and 20 percent on a constant currency basis.  Revenue from emerging economies increased 11 percent sequentially as reported and 10 percent on a constant currency basis.  Revenue from emerging economies represented 16 percent of total revenue in the fourth quarter.
 
 
2
 
 
All constant currency calculations remove the impact of foreign currency fluctuations and any gains or losses recorded to revenue within the current period as a result of Autodesks hedging program.
Revenue from the Platform Solutions and Emerging Business segment was $181 million, an increase of 10 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year and an increase of 5 percent sequentially.  Revenue from the Architecture, Engineering and Construction business segment was $162 million, an increase of 18 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year and 19 percent sequentially.  Revenue from the Manufacturing business segment was a record $133 million, an increase of 23 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year and 14 percent sequentially.  Revenue from the Media and Entertainment business segment was $52 million, an increase of 12 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year and 3 percent sequentially.
Cash flow from operating activities was $176 million, compared to $126 million in the fourth quarter last year, and $114 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2011.
Full Year Fiscal 2011
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
After a challenging fiscal 2010, we experienced a healthy rebound in global demand for our software solutions in fiscal 2011, continued Bass.  We made significant progress in growing our business and profitability, and our employees and partners are to be congratulated on their efforts.  As we head into fiscal 2012, Autodesk is well positioned to build on the success of the past year and drive towards our 5-year targets.
Business Outlook
 
The following statements are forward-looking statements that are based on current expectations and assumptions, and involve risks and uncertainties some of which are set forth below.  Autodesk is not able to provide 5-year targets for GAAP operating margins at this time because of the difficulty of estimating excluded GAAP items that would affect our operating margin, including charges related to stock-based compensation expense and amortization of acquisition related intangibles.
First Quarter Fiscal 2012
 
Net revenue for the first quarter of fiscal 2012 is expected to be in the range of $510 million and $525 million.  GAAP earnings per diluted share are expected to be in the range of $0.21 and $0.24. Non-GAAP earnings per diluted share are expected to be in the range of $0.34 and $0.37 and exclude $0.08 related to stock-based compensation expense, and $0.05 for the amortization of acquisition related intangibles, net of tax.
First quarter outlook includes the impact of the two recently announced acquisitions, which are expected to close in the quarter.
Full Year Fiscal 2012
 
Net revenue for fiscal 2012 is expected to increase by approximately 10 percent compared to fiscal 2011.  Autodesk anticipates fiscal 2012 GAAP operating margin to increase by approximately 220 basis points compared to fiscal 2011.  Autodesk anticipates fiscal 2012 non-GAAP operating margin to increase by approximately 200 basis points compared to fiscal 2011.  Non-GAAP operating margin excludes approximately 20 basis points of operating margin improvement consisting of 60 basis points of restructuring charges, 10 basis points of amortization of acquisition related intangibles, and negative 50 basis points of stock-based compensation expense.  Operating margin growth is anticipated to return to typical linearity during the year.  Autodesk is not providing specific EPS guidance for fiscal 2012 at this tim e.
 
 
 
4
 
Fiscal 2012 outlook includes the impact of the two recently announced acquisitions, which are expected to close in the first quarter of fiscal 2012.  Outlook assumes effective tax rate of approximately 24 percent for GAAP results and approximately 26 percent for non-GAAP results.
Earnings Conference Call and Webcast
 
Autodesk will host its fourth quarter conference call today at 5:00 p.m. EST. The live broadcast can be accessed at http://www.autodesk.com/investors. Supplemental financial information and prepared remarks for the conference call will be posted to the investor relations section of Autodesks website simultaneously with this press release.
The prepared remarks will not be read on the conference call.  The conference call will include only brief remarks followed by questions and answers.
NOTE:
A replay of the broadcast will be available at 7:00 pm EST at http://www.autodesk.com/investors. This replay will be maintained on Autodesks website for at least 12 months.
 
 
 
5
 
Safe Harbor Statement
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including statements in the paragraphs under Business Outlook above, statements regarding anticipated market, economic, product and revenue trends, revenue, margin, earnings and cash flow improvement, and other statements regarding our expected strategies, market and products positions, performance, results and our 5-year revenue and non-GAAP operating margin targets.  There are a significant number of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from statements made in this press release, including:  general market, economic and business conditions, our performance in particular geographies, including emerging economies, failure to maintain cost reductions and productivity increases or otherwise c ontrol our expenses, slowing momentum in maintenance billings or revenues, failure to successfully expand adoption of our products, failure to successfully incorporate sales of products suites into our overall sales strategy, difficulties encountered in integrating new or acquired businesses and technologies, the inability to identify and realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions, the financial and business condition of our reseller and distribution channels, fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates, the success of our foreign currency hedging program, failure to achieve sufficient sell-through in our channels for new or existing products, pricing pressure, unexpected fluctuations in our tax rate, the timing and degree of expected investments in growth and efficiency opportunities, changes in the timing of product releases and retirements, failure of key new applications to achieve anticipated levels of customer acceptance, failure to achieve continued success in technology advancements, interru ptions or terminations in the business of Autodesk consultants, the expense and impact of legal or regulatory proceedings, and any unanticipated accounting charges.
 
Further information on potential factors that could affect the financial results of Autodesk are included in Autodesks report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 31, 2010 and Form 10-Q for the quarters ended April 30, 2010, July 31, 2010, and October 31, 2010, which are on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Autodesk does not assume any obligation to update the forward-looking statements provided to reflect events that occur or circumstances that exist after the date on which they were made.
About Autodesk
 
Autodesk, Inc., is a leader in , engineering and entertainment software. Customers across the manufacturing, architecture, building, construction, and media and entertainment industries  including the last 15 Academy Award winners for Best Visual Effects  use Autodesk software to design, visualize, and simulate their ideas. Since its introduction of AutoCAD software in 1982, Autodesk continues to develop the broadest portfolio of state-of-the-art software for global markets. For additional information about Autodesk, visit .
3D design
www.autodesk.com
 
 
 
6
 
 
Autodesk, AutoCAD, Inventor and Revit are registered trademarks or trademarks of Autodesk, Inc., and/or its subsidiaries and/or affiliates in the USA and/or other countries. Academy Award is a registered trademark of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences. All other brand names, product names, or trademarks belong to their respective holders. Autodesk reserves the right to alter product and service offerings, and specifications and pricing at any time without notice, and is not responsible for typographical or graphical errors that may appear in this document.
 
 2011 Autodesk, Inc. All rights reserved.
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CONTACT:
Autodesk, Inc.
Investors:  David Gennarelli, , 415-507-6033
david.gennarelli@autodesk.com
Press: Greg Eden, , 415-547-2135
greg.eden@autodesk.com

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
Autodesk is posting a copy of these prepared remarks and its press release to its investor Website.  These prepared remarks are offered to provide shareholders and analysts with additional time and detail for analyzing our results in advance of our quarterly conference call. As previously scheduled, the conference call will begin today, February 24, 2011 at 2:00 pm PST (5:00 pm EST) and will include only brief comments followed by questions and answers. These prepared remarks will not be read on the call.
 
To access the live broadcast of the question and answer session, please visit the Investor Relations section of Autodesks Website at www.autodesk.com/investor.  A complete reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP results is provided in the tables following these prepared remarks.
 
Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2011 Overview
 
The fourth quarter was a strong finish to fiscal 2011.  We experienced strong demand across all geographies and business segments.  We had record quarterly performance in several areas, including revenue for our Manufacturing business segment, revenue for our Revit family of products, total maintenance billings, and total deferred revenue.
 
 
 
1
 
 
Revenue Analysis
 
 
Total net revenue for the fourth quarter was $528 million as reported, an increase of 16 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year, and 11 percent sequentially.  On a constant currency basis, revenue for the fourth quarter increased 19 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year, and 9 percent sequentially.
License and other revenue was $330 million, an increase of 22 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year, and 17 percent sequentially.
Revenue from commercial new licenses increased 21 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year, and 4 percent sequentially.
Maintenance revenue was a record high $198 million, an increase of 7 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year, and 2 percent sequentially.
Maintenance billings were a record high and increased 13 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year, and 49 percent sequentially due to typical seasonality and an increase in maintenance renewal rates.  
 
Revenue by Geography
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
Revenue in EMEA was $212 million, an increase of 13 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year as reported and 22 percent on a constant currency basis.  EMEA revenue increased 16 percent sequentially as reported and 14 percent on a constant currency basis.
Revenue in the Americas was $193 million, an increase of 15 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year and 7 percent sequentially.
Revenue in Asia Pacific was $123 million, an increase of 22 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year as reported and 20 percent on a constant currency basis.  Revenue in Asia Pacific increased 7 percent sequentially as reported and 5 percent on a constant currency basis.
 
Revenue from emerging economies was $85 million, an increase of 16 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year as reported and 20 percent on a constant currency basis.  Revenue from emerging economies increased 11 percent sequentially as reported and 10 percent on a constant currency basis.
 
Revenue by Product Type
 
Revenue from our model-based design products was $169 million, an increase of 24 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year, and 18 percent sequentially.  Our Revit, Inventor, Civil 3D, and Navisworks products all registered strong year-over-year and sequential growth.
Our horizontal design products, which consist primarily of AutoCAD and AutoCAD LT, grew 15 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year and 4 percent sequentially.  Revenue from vertical design products, such as AutoCAD Mechanical, increased 8 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year and 6 percent sequentially. Combined revenue from horizontal design products and vertical design products was $240 million, an increase of 12 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year and 5 percent sequentially.
As noted last quarter, we are introducing new classifications of our product categories in order to better capture the revenue results of our evolving product portfolio.  Autodesk will provide revenue results in the following product type categories  Flagship, Suites, and New and Adjacent products (see Autodesks New Product Type Classification later in this document for the makeup of these product classifications).  Starting next quarter, we will no longer report revenue for model-based design, horizontal products, or vertical products.
 
 
 
3
 
Revenue from Flagship products was $307 million and increased 13 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year and 8 percent sequentially.  Revenue from Suites was $126 million and increased 28 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year and 18 percent sequentially.  Suites revenue and growth is comprised primarily of revenue from our pre-existing suites, such as Inventor family suites and Revit family suites, not recently introduced suites or the suites that will be launched this spring.  Over the next several quarters and years we anticipate introducing additional suites which, when introduced, will be included in this Suites revenue metric.  Revenue from New and Adjacent products was $95 million and increased 9 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year and 11 percent sequentially.  Historical figures for this new classification can be found on our Financials Factsheet section of our Investor Relations website at www.autodesk.com/investor.
Revenue by Business Segment
 
 
Revenue from our Platform Solutions and Emerging Business segment was $181 million, an increase of 10 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year and 5 percent sequentially.
Revenue from our Architecture, Engineering and Construction business segment was $162 million, an increase of 18 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year and 19 percent sequentially.  Revenue from our Revit family of products set a quarterly record and increased 40 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year and 28 percent sequentially.
Revenue from our Manufacturing business segment was a quarterly record $133 million, an increase of 23 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year and 14 percent sequentially.  Revenue from our Inventor family of products increased 23 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year and 12 percent sequentially.
 
 
 
4
 
Revenue from our Media and Entertainment business segment was $52 million, an increase of 12 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year and 3 percent sequentially.  Revenue from animation products increased 7 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year and 2 percent sequentially.  Revenue from Creative Finishing increased 23 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year and 4 percent sequentially.
 
Margins and EPS Review
 
 
GAAP gross margin in the fourth quarter was 91 percent.  Non-GAAP gross margin in the fourth quarter was 93 percent.
GAAP operating margin was 14 percent, compared to 12 percent in the fourth quarter last year.  GAAP operating margin decreased 1 percentage point sequentially.
Non-GAAP operating margin was 20 percent, a 60 basis point increase compared to the fourth quarter last year.  Non-GAAP operating margin was impacted by increased operating expenses, primarily related to performance-based compensation due to better than expected company performance.  Non-GAAP operating margin decreased 1 percentage point sequentially driven primarily by increased performance-based compensation.
GAAP operating expenses increased 15 percent year-over-year and 14 percent sequentially.  Non-GAAP operating expenses increased 15 percent year-over-year and 13 percent sequentially.  The year-over-year increase in both GAAP and non-GAAP operating expenses was primarily related to higher performance-based compensation, the elimination of an employee furlough week, and the mix of higher paid employees. 
 
 
5
 
Similarly, the sequential increase in both GAAP and non-GAAP operating expenses was primarily related to companywide performance-based incentives resulting from higher company performance.  GAAP operating expenses were also impacted by higher restructuring charges, stock-based compensation expense and amortization of purchased intangibles.
The fourth quarter effective tax rate was 16 percent for our GAAP results and 23 percent for our non-GAAP results.
Earnings per diluted share for the fourth quarter were $0.26 GAAP and $0.35 non-GAAP.
A complete reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP results is provided in the tables following these prepared remarks.
 
Foreign Exchange Impact
 
 
Foreign currency impact includes the change in foreign currency rates on our financials.  The foreign currency impact to revenue also includes the impact from our hedging program.
Compared to the fourth quarter of last year, the impact of foreign currency exchange rates and hedging in the fourth quarter was $14 million unfavorable on revenue and there was no impact on expenses.
 
Compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2011, the impact of foreign currency exchange rates and hedging was $6 million favorable on revenue and $2 million unfavorable on expenses.
 
 
 
6
 
 
Balance Sheet Items and Cash Review
 
 
Total cash and investments at the end of the fourth quarter was approximately $1.5 billion.
During the fourth quarter Autodesk used $76 million to repurchase 2 million shares of common stock at an average price of $38.10 per share.  For the full year, Autodesk used $280 million to repurchase 9 million shares of common stock at an average repurchase price of $31.13 per share.
Cash flow from operating activities during the fourth quarter was $176 million, an increase of 40 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year and 54 percent sequentially.
Shippable backlog at the end of the fourth quarter was $28 million, an increase of $2 million compared to the fourth quarter last year and $12 million sequentially.
Deferred revenue was a quarter-end record $588 million, an increase of 14 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year and 16 percent sequentially.  The year-over-year increase is primarily due to increased maintenance billings resulting from an increase in the number of customers under maintenance contracts.  The sequential increase is primarily related to seasonally higher maintenance billings and an increase in maintenance renewal rates.
Total backlog at the end of the fourth quarter, including deferred revenue and shippable backlog orders was a quarter-end record $615 million, an increase of $73 million compared to the fourth quarter of last year and $93 million sequentially.
At the end of the fourth quarter, channel inventory was below two weeks.
Days sales outstanding was 55 days, flat compared to the fourth quarter last year and an increase of 9 days sequentially.  The sequential increase is primarily related to a seasonal increase in maintenance renewal billings.
 
7
 
Financial Highlights for Fiscal 2011
Business Outlook
 
Our guidance is based on our current expectations and the information we have available today, including currency exchange rates.
First Quarter Fiscal 2012
 
 
First quarter outlook includes the impact of the two recently announced acquisitions, which are expected to close in the quarter.  Non-GAAP earnings per diluted share for the first quarter of fiscal 2012 exclude $0.08 related to stock-based compensation expense, and $0.05 for amortization of acquisition related intangibles, net of tax.
 
 
 
8
 
A portion of the projected euro and yen denominated revenue for our first quarter fiscal 2012 has been hedged, which should help reduce the impact of currency fluctuations on our first quarter results.  However, over an extended period of time currency fluctuations will increasingly impact our results.
Full Year Fiscal 2012
Net revenue for fiscal 2012 is expected to increase by approximately 10 percent compared to fiscal 2011.  Autodesk anticipates fiscal 2012 GAAP operating margin to increase by approximately 220 basis points compared to fiscal 2011.  Autodesk anticipates fiscal 2012 non-GAAP operating margin to increase by approximately 200 basis points compared to fiscal 2011.  Non-GAAP operating margin excludes approximately 20 basis points of operating margin improvement consisting of 60 basis points of restructuring charges, 10 basis points of amortization of acquisition related intangibles, and negative 50 basis points of stock-based compensation expense.  Operating margin growth is anticipated to return to typical linearity during the year.  Autodesk is not providing specific EPS guidance for fiscal 2012 at this tim e.
Fiscal 2012 outlook includes the impact of the two recently announced acquisitions, which are expected to close in the first quarter of fiscal 2012.  Outlook assumes effective tax rate of approximately 24 percent for GAAP results and approximately 26 percent for non-GAAP results.
Autodesks Foreign Currency Hedging Program
 
Given the recent foreign exchange volatility, we would like to provide a brief summary of how we handle foreign currency exchange hedging.  A few points to call out include:
 
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
Autodesks New Product Type Classification
 
The following represents Autodesks current view for product categorization. Autodesk will periodically make changes to this list.  This is not a complete list.
 
Flagship includes the following products:
Suites include the following products classes:
New and Adjacent includes the following products and services:
 
 
 
10
 
 
 
New and Adjacent excludes maintenance and consulting services.
Safe Harbor Statement
 
These prepared remarks contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including statements in the paragraphs under Business Outlook above, statements regarding anticipated market, economic, maintenance billings, and revenue trends, cost savings, operational and efficiency investments, revenue performance (including by geography, product and product type), margin improvement, market and product positions, the impact of foreign exchange hedges and other statements regarding our expected strategies, performance and results.  There are a significant number of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from statements made in these remarks, including:  general market, economic and business conditions, our performance in particular geographies, including emerging econ omies, failure to maintain cost reductions and productivity increases or otherwise control our expenses, slowing momentum in maintenance billings or revenues, failure to successfully incorporate sales of products suites into our overall sales strategy, difficulties encountered in integrating new or acquired businesses and technologies, the inability to identify and realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions, the financial and business condition of our reseller and distribution channels, fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates, the success of our foreign currency hedging program, failure to achieve sufficient sell-through in our channels for new or existing products, pricing pressure, failure to successfully expand adoption of our products unexpected fluctuations in our tax rate, the timing and degree of expected investments in growth and efficiency opportunities, changes in the timing of product releases and retirements, failure of key new applications to achieve anticipated levels of customer a cceptance, failure to achieve continued success in technology advancements, interruptions or terminations in the business of Autodesk consultants, the expense or impact of legal or regulatory proceedings, and any unanticipated accounting charges.
 
 
 
11
 
Further information on potential factors that could affect the financial results of Autodesk are included in Autodesks report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 31, 2010 and Form 10-Q for the quarters ended April 30, 2010, July 31, 2010 and October 31, 2010, which are on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Autodesk does not assume any obligation to update the forward-looking statements provided to reflect events that occur or circumstances that exist after the date on which they were made.
 2011 Autodesk, Inc. All rights reserved.
 
 
 
12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


