FILE:ADSK/ADSK-8K-20120106160541.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02.        Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Approval of the 2012 Employee Plan and the 2012 Directors' Plan
At the 2012 Special Meeting of Stockholders of Autodesk, Inc. ("Autodesk" or the "Company") held on January 6, 2012 (the "Special Meeting"), the stockholders of Autodesk voted on and approved the Autodesk 2012 Employee Stock Plan (the "2012 Employee Plan") and the Autodesk 2012 Outside Directors' Stock Plan (the "2012 Directors' Plan").
The terms and conditions of the 2012 Employee Plan and the 2012 Directors' Plan are described in Autodesk's definitive proxy statement, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 21, 2011. The 2012 Employee Plan and the 2012 Directors' Plan are filed as Exhibit 10.1 and Exhibit 10.2 hereto, respectively, and are each incorporated by reference herein.
 
The information contained in Item 5.02 above is hereby incorporated by reference. At the Special Meeting, the following proposals were voted on and approved by the stockholders of Autodesk.
 
Item 9.01.        Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: January 6, 2012
 

Exhibit 10.1
1. . The purposes of this 2012 Employee Stock Plan are to attract and retain the best available personnel for positions of substantial responsibility, to provide additional incentive to Employees, and to promote the success of the Company's business.
Purposes of the Plan
2. . As used herein, the following definitions shall apply:
Definitions
(a) "" means the Board or any of its Committees as shall be administering the Plan, in accordance with Section 4 of the Plan.
Administrator
(b) "" means the requirements relating to the administration of equity compensation plans under U.S. state corporate laws, U.S. federal and state securities laws, the Code, any stock exchange or quotation system on which the Shares are listed or quoted and the applicable laws of any other country or jurisdiction where Awards are granted under the Plan.
Applicable Laws
(c) "" means, individually or collectively, a grant under the Plan of Incentive Stock Options, Nonqualified Stock Options, Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units.
Award
(d) "" means the written or electronic agreement setting forth the terms and conditions applicable to each Award granted under the Plan.
Award Agreement
(e) "" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
Board
(f) "" means the occurrence of any of the following events, in one or a series of related transactions:
Change of Control
(i) any "person," as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act, other than the Company, a subsidiary of the Company or a Company employee benefit plan, including any trustee of such plan acting as trustee, is or becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing fifty percent (50%) or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors; or
(ii) a merger or consolidation of the Company or any direct or indirect subsidiary of the Company with any other corporation, other than a merger or consolidation which would result in the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity) at least fifty percent (50%) of the total voting power represented by the voting securities of the Company or such surviving entity outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation; or
(iii) the sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all the Company's assets; or
(iv) a change in the composition of the Board, as a result of which fewer than a majority of the Directors are Incumbent Directors. "Incumbent Directors" shall mean Directors who either (A) are Directors as of the date this Plan is approved by the Board, or (B) are elected, or nominated for election, to the Board with the affirmative votes of at least a majority of the Directors and whose election or nomination was not in connection with any transaction described in (i) or (ii) above or in connection with an actual or threatened proxy contest relating to the election of directors of the Company.
 
(g) "" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Reference to a specific section of the Code or regulation thereunder shall include such section or regulation, any valid regulation promulgated under such section, and any comparable provision of any future legislation or regulation amending, supplementing or superseding such section or regulation.
Code
(h) "" means a Committee appointed by the Board in accordance with Section 4 of the Plan.
Committee
(i) "" means the Common Stock of the Company.
Common Stock
(j) "" means Autodesk, Inc., a Delaware corporation, or any successor thereto.
Company
(k) "" means, with respect to an Award, the date that the Award is granted and its exercise price is set (if applicable), consistent with Applicable Laws and applicable financial accounting rules.
Date of Grant
(l) "" means a member of the Board.
Director
(m) "" means total and permanent disability as defined in Section 22(e)(3) of the Code.
Disability
(n) "" means, as to any Performance Period, fully diluted earnings per share of the Company, a business unit or an industry group, as defined by generally accepted accounting principles.
Earnings Per Share
(o) "" means January 6, 2012.
Effective Date
(p) "" means any person employed by the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary of the Company. An Employee shall not cease to be an Employee in the case of (i) any leave of absence approved by the Company or (ii) transfers between locations of the Company or between the Company, its Parent, any Subsidiary, or any successor. For purposes of Incentive Stock Options, no such leave may exceed ninety days, unless reemployment upon expiration of such leave is guaranteed by statute or contract. If reemployment upon expiration of a leave of absence approved by the Company is not so guaranteed, then three (3) months following the 91
Employee
st
day of such leave any Incentive Stock Option held by the Participant shall cease to be treated as an Incentive Stock Option and shall be treated for tax purposes as a Nonstatutory Stock Option.
(q) "" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Reference to a specific section of the Exchange Act or regulation thereunder shall include such section or regulation, any valid regulation promulgated under such section, and any comparable provision of any future legislation or regulation amending, supplementing or superseding such section or regulation.
Exchange Act
(r) "" means, as of any date, the value of Common Stock determined as follows:
Fair Market Value
(i) If the Common Stock is listed on any established stock exchange or a national market system, including without limitation the Nasdaq National Market of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotation ("Nasdaq") System, the Fair Market Value of a Share of Common Stock shall be the closing sales price for such stock (or the closing bid, if no sales were reported) as quoted on such system or exchange (or the exchange with the greatest volume of trading in Common Stock) on the day of determination; or
(ii) In the absence of an established market for the Common Stock, the Fair Market Value shall be determined in good faith by the Administrator.
(iii) If Fair Market Value is to be determined as of a date which is not a date on which the Common Stock is traded, then the Fair Market Value on such date shall be the Fair Market Value on the next subsequent trading date.
(s) "" means a fiscal year of the Company.
Fiscal Year
 
(t) "" means an Option intended to qualify as an incentive stock option within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder.
Incentive Stock Option
(u) "" means, as to any Performance Period, net income for the Performance Period of the Company, a business unit or an industry group, as defined by generally accepted accounting principles.
Net Income
(v) "" means an Option not intended to qualify as an Incentive Stock Option.
Nonqualified Stock Option
(w) "" means a written or electronic notice evidencing certain terms and conditions of an individual Award. The Notice of Grant is part of the Award Agreement.
Notice of Grant
(x) "" means the ratio of Operating Income to Revenue.
Operating Margins
(y) "" means income from operations of the Company, a business unit or an industry group, as defined by generally accepted accounting principles.
Operating Income
(z) "" means an Incentive Stock Option or Nonqualified Stock Option granted pursuant to the Plan.
Option
(aa) "" means a "parent corporation", whether now or hereafter existing, as defined in Section 424(e) of the Code.
Parent
(bb) "" means the holder of an outstanding Award granted under the Plan.
Participant
(cc) "" means the goal(s) (or combined goal(s)) determined by the Administrator (in its discretion) to be applicable to a Participant with respect to Awards of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units. Such Performance Goals may be made applicable to Awards which are intended to comply with Section 162(m) of the Code, as well as Awards which not intended to comply with Section 162(m) of the Code. As determined by the Administrator, the Performance Goals applicable to an Award may provide for a targeted level or levels of achievement using one or more of the following measures: (a) Revenue, (b) Earnings Per Share, (c) Net Income, (d) Operating Margins, and (e) Total Stockholder Return. The Performance Goals may differ from Participant to Participant and from Award to Award. Any criteria used may be measured, as applicable, (i) on Pro Forma numbers, (ii) in absolute terms, (iii) in relative terms (including, but not limited, the passage of time and/or against other companies or financial metrics), (iv) on a per share and/or share per capita basis, (v) against the performance of the Company as a whole or against particular segments, business units, industry groups or products of the Company and/or (vi) on a pre-tax or after-tax basis. Prior to the date on which such Performance Goals are determined, the Administrator shall stipulate whether any element(s) (for example, but not by way of limitation, the effect of mergers or acquisitions) shall be included in or excluded from the calculation of any Performance Goal with respect to any Participants (notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, whether or not such determinations result in any Performance Goal being measured on a basis other than generally accepted accounting principles). Such stipulation may also be made after the date such Performance Goals are determined to the extent that such stipulation would not violate Section 162(m) of the Code.
Performance Goals
(dd) "" means any Fiscal Year or such longer period as determined by the Administrator in its sole discretion.
Performance Period
(ee) "" means the period during which the transfer of Shares of Restricted Stock are subject to restrictions and therefore, the Shares are subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture. As provided in Section 9, such restrictions may be based on the passage of time, the achievement of target levels of performance, or the occurrence of other events as determined by the Administrator, in its discretion.
Period of Restriction
 
(ff) "" means this 2012 Employee Stock Plan, as set forth in this instrument and as hereafter amended from time to time.
Plan
(gg) "" means calculation of a Performance Goal in a manner that excludes certain non-recurring, unusual or non-cash expenses or credits, such as restructuring expenses, extraordinary tax events, expenses or credits related to equity compensation or the like, acquisition related expenses and charges, extraordinary items, income or loss from discontinued operations, and/or gains or losses from early extinguishment of debt instead of conforming to generally accepted accounting principles.
Pro Forma
(hh) "" means an Award granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 9.
Restricted Stock
(ii) "" means an Award granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 10.
Restricted Stock Unit
(jj) "" means net sales for the Performance Period of the Company, a business unit or an industry group, as defined by generally accepted accounting principles.
Revenue
(kk) "" means Rule 16b-3 of the Exchange Act or any successor to Rule 16b-3, as in effect when discretion is being exercised with respect to the Plan.
Rule 16b-3
(ll) "" means Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Section 16(b)
(mm) "" means a share of the Common Stock, as adjusted in accordance with Section 13 of the Plan.
Share
(nn) "" means a "subsidiary corporation", whether now or hereafter existing, as defined in Section 424(f) of the Code.
Subsidiary
(oo) "" means the total return (change in share price plus reinvestment of any dividends) of a share of the Company's common stock.
Total Stockholder Return
3. .
Stock Subject to the Plan
(a) Subject to the provisions of Section 13 of the Plan, the maximum aggregate number of Shares which may be issued under the Plan is equal to 6,700,000 Shares plus that number of Shares remaining for issuance under the 2008 Employee Stock Plan as of January 6, 2012, not to exceed 8,500,000 Shares, plus that number of Shares that are subject to equity awards granted under the 2008 Employee Stock Plan, the 2008 Employee Stock Plan (as amended and restated), the 2006 Employee Stock Plan and the 1996 Stock Plan (collectively, the "Prior Plans") which are outstanding as of January 6, 2012, not to exceed 6,000,000 Shares, and thereafter terminate, expire, lapse or are forfeited for any reason and which following the termination, expiration, lapse or forfeiture of such awards do not again become available for issuance under the Prior Plans, with the maximum aggregate total of Shares which may be issued under the Plan not to exceed 21,200,000 Shares.
(b) The Shares may be authorized, but unissued, or reacquired Common Stock. Subject to Section 3(c) hereof, if an Award expires or becomes unexercisable without having been exercised in full, or with respect to Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units, is forfeited to or repurchased by the Company, the unpurchased Shares (or for Awards other than Options, the forfeited or repurchased Shares) which were subject thereto will become available for future grant or sale under the Plan (unless the Plan has terminated). Shares that have actually been issued under the Plan under any Award will not be returned to the Plan and will not become available for future distribution under the Plan; provided, however, that if unvested Shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units are repurchased by the Company or are forfeited to the Company, such Shares will become available for future grant under the Plan. Shares used to pay the tax and exercise price of an Award will not become available for future grant or sale under the Plan. To the extent an Award under the Plan is paid out in cash rather than Shares, such cash payment will not result in reducing the number of Shares available for
 
issuance under the Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing and, subject to adjustment provided in Section 13, the maximum number of Shares that may be issued upon the exercise of Incentive Stock Options shall equal the aggregate Share number stated in Section 3(a), plus, to the extent allowable under Section 422 of the Code, any Shares that become available for issuance under the Plan under this Section 3(b).
(c) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, each Share subject to an Incentive Stock Option or Nonqualified Stock Option shall be counted against the Shares authorized for issuance under the Plan as one Share. Each Share subject to an Award of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units shall be counted against the Shares authorized for issuance under the Plan as 1.79 Shares. Each Share which is subject to an Award of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units granted under the Plan which is forfeited to or repurchased by the Company pursuant to Section 3(b) hereof shall count as having returned 1.79 Shares to the total of number of Shares which are available for future grant or sale under the Plan.
4. .
Administration of the Plan
(a) .
Procedure
(i) . The Plan may be administered by the Board or different Committees with respect to different groups of Employees.
Multiple Administrative Bodies
(ii) . To the extent that the Administrator determines it to be desirable to qualify Awards granted hereunder as "performance-based compensation" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code, the Plan shall be administered by a Committee of two or more "outside directors" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code.
Section 162(m)
(iii) . To the extent desirable to qualify transactions hereunder as exempt under Rule 16b-3, the transactions contemplated hereunder shall be structured to satisfy the requirements for exemption under Rule 16b-3.
Rule 16b-3
(iv) . Other than as provided above, the Plan shall be administered by (A) the Board or (B) a Committee, which committee shall be constituted to satisfy Applicable Laws.
Other Administration
(b) . Subject to the provisions of the Plan, and in the case of a Committee, subject to the specific duties delegated by the Board to such Committee, the Administrator shall have the authority, in its discretion:
Powers of the Administrator
(i) to determine the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock, in accordance with Section 2(r) of the Plan;
(ii) to select the Employees to whom Awards may be granted hereunder;
(iii) to determine whether and to what extent Awards are granted hereunder;
(iv) to determine the number of Shares to be covered by each Award granted hereunder;
(v) to approve forms of agreement for use under the Plan;
(vi) to determine the terms and conditions, not inconsistent with the terms of the Plan, of any Award granted hereunder. With respect to Options, such terms and conditions include, but are not limited to, the exercise price, the time or times when Options may be exercised, based in each case on such factors as the Administrator, in its sole discretion, shall determine;
(vii) to construe and interpret the terms of the Plan and Awards granted hereunder;
 
(viii) to prescribe, amend and rescind rules and regulations relating to the Plan, including rules and regulations relating to sub-plans established for the purpose of qualifying for preferred tax treatment under foreign tax laws;
(ix) to modify or amend each Award (not inconsistent with the terms of the Plan), including the discretionary authority to extend the post-termination exercisability period of Options longer than is otherwise provided for in the Plan;
(x) to authorize any person to execute on behalf of the Company any instrument required to effect the grant of an Award previously granted by the Administrator;
(xi) to allow Participants to satisfy withholding tax obligations in such manner as may be determined by the Administrator in accordance with the terms of the Plan;
(xii) to determine the terms and restrictions applicable to Awards; and
(xiii) to make all other determinations deemed necessary or advisable for administering the Plan.
(c) . The Administrator's decisions, determinations and interpretations shall be final and binding on all Participants and any other holders of Awards and shall be given the maximum deference permitted by law.
Effect of Administrator's Decision
5. . Awards may be granted only to Employees.
Eligibility
6. . Neither the Plan nor any Award shall confer upon a Participant any right with respect to continuing the Participant's employment with the Company or its Subsidiaries, nor shall they interfere in any way with the Participant's right or the Company's or Subsidiary's right, as the case may be, to terminate such employment at any time, with or without cause or notice.
No Employment Rights
7. . The Plan shall become effective on January 6, 2012 and continue in effect, unless terminated earlier, until June 30, 2022.
Term of Plan
8. .
Stock Options
(a) . Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan, Options may be granted to Employees at any time and from time to time as determined by the Administrator in its sole discretion. The Administrator, in its sole discretion, shall determine the number of Shares subject to each Option, provided that during any Fiscal Year, no Participant shall be granted Options covering more than a total of 1,500,000 Shares; , that such limit shall be 3,000,000 Shares in the Participant's first Fiscal Year of Company service. The Administrator may grant Incentive Stock Options, Nonstatutory Stock Options, or a combination thereof.
Grant of Options
provided, however
(b) . The term of each Option shall be stated in the Notice of Grant; , that the term shall be no longer than ten (10) years from the Date of Grant. Moreover, in the case of an Incentive Stock Option granted to a Participant who, at the time the Incentive Stock Option is granted, owns stock representing more than ten percent (10%) of the voting power of all classes of stock of the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary, the term of the Incentive Stock Option shall be no longer than five (5) years from the Date of Grant. Subject to the five (5) and ten (10) year limits set forth in the preceding sentence, the Administrator may, after an Option is granted, extend the maximum term of the Option. Unless otherwise determined by the Administrator, any extension of the term of an Option pursuant to this Section 8(b) shall comply with Code Section 409A.
Term
provided, however
(c) . The per share exercise price for the Shares to be issued pursuant to exercise of an Option shall be determined by the Administrator and shall be no less than 100% of the Fair Market Value per share on the Date of Grant; , that in the case of an Incentive Stock Option granted to an
Option Exercise Price
provided, however
 
Employee who, at the time the Incentive Stock Option is granted, owns stock representing more than ten percent (10%) of the voting power of all classes of stock of the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary, the per Share exercise price shall be no less than 110% of the Fair Market Value per Share on the Date of Grant.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that the Company or a Subsidiary consummates a transaction described in Section 424(a) of the Code (e.g., the acquisition of property or stock from an unrelated corporation), persons who become Employees on account of such transaction may be granted Options in substitution for options granted by their former employer. If such substitute Options are granted, the Administrator, in its sole discretion and consistent with Section 424(a) of the Code, may determine that such substitute Options shall have an exercise price less than one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value of the Shares on the Date of Grant.
(d) . The exercise price for an Option may not be reduced without the consent of the Company's stockholders. This shall include, without limitation, a repricing of the Option as well as an Option exchange program whereby the Participant agrees to cancel an existing Option in exchange for (a) Awards with a lower exercise price, (b) a different type of Award, (c) cash, or (d) a combination of (a), (b) and/or (c).
No Repricing
(e) . At the time an Option is granted, the Administrator shall fix the period within which the Option may be exercised and shall determine any conditions which must be satisfied before the Option may be exercised. In so doing, the Administrator may specify that an Option may not be exercised until the completion of a service period or until performance milestones are satisfied.
Waiting Period and Exercise Dates
(f) . The Administrator shall determine the acceptable form of consideration for exercising an Option, including the method of payment. In the case of an Incentive Stock Option, the Administrator shall determine the acceptable form of consideration at the time of grant. Subject to Applicable Laws, such consideration may consist entirely of:
Form of Consideration
(i) cash;
(ii) check;
(iii) other Shares which (A) in the case of Shares acquired upon exercise of an option, have been owned by the Participant for more than six months on the date of surrender, and (B) have a Fair Market Value on the date of surrender equal to the aggregate exercise price of the Shares as to which said Option shall be exercised;
(iv) delivery to the Company of (A) a properly executed exercise notice together with such other documentation as the Administrator and the broker, if applicable, shall require to effect an exercise of the Option and (B) the sale proceeds required to pay the exercise price;
(v) any combination of the foregoing methods of payment; or
(vi) such other consideration and method of payment for the issuance of Shares to the extent permitted by Applicable Laws; provided, however, that in no case will loans be permitted as consideration for exercising an Option hereunder.
(g) . Any Option granted hereunder shall be exercisable according to the terms of the Plan and at such times and under such conditions as determined by the Administrator and set forth in the Award Agreement.
Exercise of Option; Rights as a Stockholder
An Option may not be exercised for a fraction of a Share.
 
An Option shall be deemed exercised when the Company receives: (i) written or electronic notice of exercise (in accordance with the Award Agreement) from the person entitled to exercise the Option, and (ii) full payment for the Shares with respect to which the Option is exercised. Full payment may consist of any consideration and method of payment authorized by the Administrator and permitted by the Award Agreement and the Plan. Shares issued upon exercise of an Option shall be issued in the name of the Participant. Until the Shares are issued (as evidenced by the appropriate entry on the books of the Company or of a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company), no right to vote or receive dividends or any other rights as a stockholder shall exist with respect to the optioned stock, notwithstanding the exercise of the Option. The Company shall issue (or cause to be issued) such Share promptly after the Option is exercised. No adjustment will be made for a dividend or other right for which the record date is prior to the date the Share is issued, except as provided in Section 13 of the Plan.
Exercising an Option in any manner shall decrease the number of Shares thereafter available for sale under the Option, by the number of Shares as to which the Option is exercised.
(h) . If a Participant ceases to be an Employee, other than by reason of the Participant's death or Disability, the Participant may exercise his or her Option within such period of time as is specified in the Award Agreement, to the extent that the Participant was entitled to exercise it on the date of termination. In the absence of a specified time in the Award Agreement, the Option shall remain exercisable for three (3) months following the date of the Participant's termination, to the extent that the Participant was entitled to exercise it on the date of termination.
Termination of Relationship as an Employee
(i) . If a Participant ceases to be an Employee by reason of the Participant's Disability, the Participant may exercise his or her Option for twelve (12) months following the date of the Participant's termination, to the extent that the Participant was entitled to exercise it on the date of termination.
Disability
(j) . If a Participant ceases to be an Employee by reason of the Participant's death, the Option may be exercised for twelve (12) months following the date of the Participant's death, to the extent that the Participant was entitled to exercise it on such date, by the Participant's designated beneficiary, provided such beneficiary has been designated prior to Participant's death in a form acceptable to the Administrator. If no such beneficiary has been designated by the Participant, then such Option may be exercised by the personal representative of the Participant's estate or by the person(s) to whom the Option is transferred pursuant to the Participant's will or in accordance with the laws of descent and distribution.
Death of Participant
(k) . Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event may the Option be exercised after its term has expired. If, on the date of termination, the Participant is not vested as to his or her entire Option, the Shares covered by the unvested portion of the Option shall revert to the Plan. If, after termination, the Participant (or the Participant's beneficiary or representative, as the case may be) does not exercise his or her Option within the time specified by the Administrator, the Option shall terminate, and the Shares covered by such Option shall revert to the Plan.
General
(l) . Each Option shall be designated in the Notice of Grant as either an Incentive Stock Option or a Nonstatutory Stock Option. However, notwithstanding such designations, to the extent that the aggregate Fair Market Value of Shares subject to a Participant's Incentive Stock Options granted by the Company, any Parent or Subsidiary, which become exercisable for the first time during any calendar year (under all plans of the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary) exceeds $100,000, such excess Options shall be treated as Nonstatutory Stock Options. For purposes of this Section 8(k), Incentive Stock Options shall be taken into account in the order in which they were granted, and the Fair Market Value of the Shares shall be determined as of the time of grant.
ISO $100,000 Rule
 
9. .
Restricted Stock
(a) . Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan, the Administrator, at any time and from time to time, may grant Shares of Restricted Stock to Employees as the Administrator, in its sole discretion, shall determine. The Administrator, in its sole discretion, shall determine the number of Shares to be granted to each Participant, provided that during any Fiscal Year, no Participant shall receive more than a total of 750,000 Shares of Restricted Stock (and/or Restricted Stock Units); , that such limit shall be 1,500,000 Shares in the Participant's first Fiscal Year of Company service.
Grant of Restricted Stock
provided, however
(b) . Each Award of Restricted Stock shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify the Period of Restriction, the number of Shares granted, and such other terms and conditions as the Administrator, in its sole discretion, shall determine. Unless the Administrator determines otherwise, Shares of Restricted Stock shall be held by the Company as escrow agent until the restrictions on such Shares have lapsed.
Restricted Stock Agreement
(c) . Except as provided in this Section 9, Shares of Restricted Stock may not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated until the end of the applicable Period of Restriction.
Transferability
(d) . The Administrator, in its sole discretion, may impose such other restrictions on Shares of Restricted Stock as it may deem advisable or appropriate, in accordance with this Section 9(d).
Other Restrictions
(i) . The Administrator may set restrictions based upon continued employment or service with the Company and its affiliates, the achievement of specific performance objectives (Company-wide, departmental, or individual), the achievement of Performance Goals, applicable federal or state securities laws, other Applicable Laws, or any other basis determined by the Administrator in its discretion.
General Restrictions
(ii) . For purposes of qualifying grants of Restricted Stock as "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code, the Administrator, in its discretion, may set restrictions based upon the achievement of Performance Goals. The Performance Goals shall be set by the Administrator on or before the latest date permissible to enable the Restricted Stock to qualify as "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code. In granting Restricted Stock which is intended to qualify under Section 162(m) of the Code, the Administrator shall follow any procedures determined by it from time to time to be necessary or appropriate to ensure qualification of the Restricted Stock under Section 162(m) of the Code (e.g., in determining the Performance Goals).
Section 162(m) Performance Restrictions
(iii) . The Administrator, in its discretion, may legend the Shares representing Restricted Stock to give appropriate notice of such restrictions.
Legend
(e) . Except as otherwise provided in this Section 9, Shares of Restricted Stock covered by each Restricted Stock grant made under the Plan shall be released from escrow as soon as practicable after the last day of the Period of Restriction. The Administrator, in its discretion, may accelerate the time at which any restrictions shall lapse or be removed. After the restrictions have lapsed, the Participant shall be entitled to have any legend or legends under Section 9(d)(iii) removed from his or her Share, and the Shares shall be freely transferable by the Participant. The Administrator (in its discretion) may establish procedures regarding the release of Shares from escrow and the removal of legends, as necessary or appropriate to minimize administrative burdens on the Company.
Removal of Restrictions
(f) . During the Period of Restriction, Participants holding Shares of Restricted Stock granted hereunder may exercise full voting rights with respect to those Shares, unless the Administrator determines otherwise.
Voting Rights
 
(g) . During the Period of Restriction, Participants holding Shares of Restricted Stock shall be entitled to receive all dividends and other distributions paid with respect to such Shares unless otherwise provided in the Award Agreement. Any such dividends or distribution shall be subject to the same restrictions on transferability and forfeitability as the Shares of Restricted Stock with respect to which they were paid, unless otherwise provided in the Award Agreement.
Dividends and Other Distributions
(h) . On the date set forth in the Award Agreement, the Restricted Stock for which restrictions have not lapsed shall revert to the Company and again shall become available for grant under the Plan.
Return of Restricted Stock to the Company
10. .
Restricted Stock Units
(a) . Restricted Stock Units may be granted to Employees at any time and from time to time, as shall be determined by the Administrator, in its sole discretion. The Administrator shall have complete discretion in determining the number of Restricted Stock Units granted to each Participant, provided that during any Fiscal Year, no Participant shall receive more than a total of 750,000 Restricted Stock Units (and/or Shares of Restricted Stock); , that such limit shall be 1,500,000 Restricted Stock Units in the Participant's first Fiscal Year of Company service.
Grant of Restricted Stock Units
provided, however
(b) . Each Restricted Stock Unit shall have an initial value equal to the Fair Market Value of a Share on the Grant Date.
Value of Restricted Stock Units
(c) . Each Award of Restricted Stock Units shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify any vesting conditions, the number of Restricted Stock Units granted, and such other terms and conditions as the Administrator, in its sole discretion, shall determine.
Restricted Stock Unit Agreement
(d) . The Administrator, in its discretion, shall set performance objectives or other vesting criteria which, depending on the extent to which they are met, will determine the number or value of Restricted Stock Units that will be paid out to the Participants. Each Award of Restricted Stock Units shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify the Performance Period, and such other terms and conditions as the Administrator, in its sole discretion, shall determine.
Performance Objectives and Other Terms
(i) . The Administrator may set performance objectives or vesting criteria based upon the achievement of Company-wide, departmental, or individual goals, Performance Goals, applicable federal or state securities laws, or any other basis determined by the Administrator in its discretion (for example, but not by way of limitation, continuous service as an Employee).
General Performance Objectives, Performance Goals or Vesting Criteria
(ii) . For purposes of qualifying grants of Restricted Stock Units as "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code, the Administrator, in its discretion, may determine that the performance objectives applicable to Restricted Stock Units shall be based on the achievement of Performance Goals. The Performance Goals shall be set by the Administrator on or before the latest date permissible to enable the Restricted Stock Units to qualify as "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code. In granting Restricted Stock Units that are intended to qualify under Section 162(m) of the Code, the Administrator shall follow any procedures determined by it from time to time to be necessary or appropriate to ensure qualification of the Restricted Stock Units under Section 162(m) of the Code (e.g., in determining the Performance Goals).
Section 162(m) Performance Objectives
(e) . After the applicable Performance Period has ended, the holder of Restricted Stock Units shall be entitled to receive a payout of the number of Restricted Stock Units earned by the Participant over the Performance Period, to be determined as a function of the extent to which the corresponding performance objectives have been achieved. After the grant of a Restricted Stock Unit, the Administrator, in its sole discretion, may reduce or waive any performance objectives for such Restricted Stock Unit.
Earning of Restricted Stock Units
 
(f) . Payment of vested Restricted Stock Units shall be made as soon as practicable after vesting (subject to any deferral permitted under Section 18). The Administrator, in its sole discretion, may pay Restricted Stock Units in the form of cash, in Shares or in a combination thereof.
Form and Timing of Payment of Restricted Stock Units
(g) . On the date set forth in the Award Agreement, all unvested Restricted Stock Units shall be forfeited to the Company and, except as otherwise determined by the Administrator, again shall be available for grant under the Plan.
Cancellation of Restricted Stock Units
11. . Unless the Administrator provides otherwise or except as otherwise required by Applicable Laws, vesting of Awards granted hereunder shall continue during any leave of absence approved by the Administrator.
Leaves of Absence
12. . Unless determined otherwise by the Administrator, an Award may not be sold, pledged, assigned, hypothecated, transferred, or disposed of in any manner other than by will or by the laws of descent or distribution and may be exercised, during the lifetime of the recipient, only by the recipient. If the Administrator makes an Award transferable, such Award shall contain such additional terms and conditions as the Administrator deems appropriate; provided, however, that such Award shall in no event be transferable for value. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Participant may, if the Administrator (in its discretion) so permits, transfer an Award to an individual or entity other than the Company. Any such transfer shall be made in accordance with such procedures as the Administrator may specify from time to time.
Non-Transferability of Awards
13. .
Adjustments Upon Changes in Capitalization
(a) Subject to any required action by the stockholders of the Company, the number of Shares covered by each outstanding Award, the number of Shares which have been authorized for issuance under the Plan but as to which no Awards have yet been granted or which have been returned to the Plan upon cancellation or expiration of an Award, as well as the price per Share of Common Stock covered by each such outstanding Award and the 162(m) Fiscal Year share issuance limits under Sections 8(a), 9(a) and 10(a) hereof, shall be proportionately adjusted for any increase or decrease in the number of issued Shares resulting from a stock split, reverse stock split, stock dividend, combination or reclassification of the Common Stock, or any other increase or decrease in the number of issued Shares effected without receipt of consideration by the Company; , that conversion of any convertible securities of the Company shall not be deemed to have been "effected without receipt of consideration." Such adjustment shall be made by the Compensation Committee, whose determination in that respect shall be final, binding and conclusive. Except as expressly provided herein, no issuance by the Company of shares of stock of any class, or securities convertible into shares of stock of any class, shall affect, and no adjustment by reason thereof shall be made with respect to, the number or price of shares of Common Stock subject to an Award.
provided, however
(b) . In the event of the proposed dissolution or liquidation of the Company, the Administrator shall notify each Participant as soon as practicable prior to the effective date of such proposed transaction. The Administrator in its discretion may provide for a Participant to have the right to exercise his or her Award until ten (10) days prior to such transaction as to all of the Shares covered thereby, including Shares as to which the Award would not otherwise be exercisable. In addition, the Administrator may provide that any Company repurchase option or forfeiture rights applicable to any Award shall lapse 100%, and that any Award vesting shall accelerate 100%, provided the proposed dissolution or liquidation takes place at the time and in the manner contemplated. To the extent it has not been previously exercised, an Award will terminate immediately prior to the consummation of such proposed action.
Dissolution or Liquidation
(c) . In the event of a Change of Control, each outstanding Award shall be assumed or an equivalent Award substituted by the successor corporation or a Parent or Subsidiary of the successor corporation.
Change of Control
 
In the event that the successor corporation refuses to assume or substitute for the Award, the Participant shall fully vest in and have the right to exercise all of his or her outstanding Options, including Shares as to which such Awards would not otherwise be vested or exercisable, all restrictions on Restricted Stock will lapse and all Restricted Stock Units shall become fully vested; , that, with respect to Awards with performance-based vesting, including but not limited to Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units, all performance goals or other vesting criteria will be deemed achieved at one hundred percent (100%) of target levels and all other terms and conditions met. In addition, if an Option is not assumed or substituted in the event of a Change of Control, the Administrator shall notify the Participant in writing or electronically that the Option shall be fully vested and exercisable for a period of fifteen (15) days from the date of such notice, and the Option shall terminate upon the expiration of such period.
provided, however
For the purposes of this paragraph, an Award shall be considered assumed if, following the Change of Control, the Award confers the right to purchase or receive, for each Share subject to the Award immediately prior to the Change of Control, the consideration (whether stock, cash, or other securities or property) received in the Change of Control by holders of Common Stock for each Share held on the effective date of the transaction (and if holders were offered a choice of consideration, the type of consideration chosen by the holders of a majority of the outstanding Shares); , that if such consideration received in the Change of Control is not solely common stock of the successor corporation or its Parent, the Administrator may, with the consent of the successor corporation, provide for the consideration to be received upon the exercise of an Option or upon the payout of the Restricted Stock Unit Award, for each Share subject to the Award, to be solely common stock of the successor corporation or its Parent equal in fair market value to the per share consideration received by holders of Common Stock in the Change of Control.
provided, however
Notwithstanding anything in this Section 13(c) to the contrary, an Award that vests, is earned or paid-out upon the satisfaction of one or more performance goals will not be considered assumed if the Company or its successor modifies any of such performance goals without the Participant's consent; provided, however, a modification to such performance goals only to reflect the successor corporation's post-Change of Control corporate structure will not be deemed to invalidate an otherwise valid Award assumption.
14. .
Amendment and Termination of the Plan
(a) . Subject to Section 8(d) hereof, the Board may at any time amend, alter, suspend or terminate the Plan; provided, however, that to the extent necessary and desirable to comply with any Applicable Law, the Company shall obtain stockholder approval of any Plan amendment in such a manner and to such a degree as required.
Amendment and Termination
(b) . No amendment, alteration, suspension or termination of the Plan shall impair the rights of any Participant, unless mutually agreed otherwise between the Participant and the Administrator, which agreement must be in writing (or electronic format) and signed by the Participant and the Company.
Effect of Amendment or Termination
15. .
Conditions Upon Issuance of Shares
(a) . Shares shall not be issued pursuant to the exercise of an Award unless the exercise of such Award and the issuance and delivery of such Shares shall comply with Applicable Laws and shall be further subject to the approval of counsel for the Company with respect to such compliance.
Legal Compliance
(b) . As a condition to the exercise or receipt of Shares pursuant to an Award, the Company may require the person exercising or receiving Shares pursuant to an Award to represent and warrant at the time of any such exercise or receipt that the Shares are being purchased only for investment and without any present intention to sell or distribute such Shares if, in the opinion of counsel for the Company, such a representation is required.
Investment Representations
 
16. .
Liability of Company
(a) . The inability of the Company to obtain authority from any regulatory body having jurisdiction, which authority is deemed by the Company's counsel to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any Shares hereunder, shall relieve the Company of any liability in respect of the failure to issue or sell such Shares as to which such requisite authority shall not have been obtained.
Inability to Obtain Authority
(b) . If the Shares covered by an Award exceed, as of the Date of Grant, the number of Shares which may be issued under the Plan without additional stockholder approval, such Award shall be void with respect to such excess Shares, unless stockholder approval of an amendment sufficiently increasing the number of Shares subject to the Plan is timely obtained in accordance with Section 14(b) of the Plan.
Grants Exceeding Allotted Shares
17. . The Company, during the term of this Plan, will at all times reserve and keep available such number of Shares as shall be sufficient to satisfy the requirements of the Plan.
Reservation of Shares
18. . The Administrator, in its sole discretion, may permit a Participant to defer receipt of the payment of cash or the delivery of Shares that would otherwise be due to such Participant under an Award. Any such deferral elections shall be subject to such rules and procedures as shall be determined by the Administrator in its sole discretion.
Deferrals
19. . No Employee shall have the right to be selected to receive an Award under this Plan, or, having been so selected, to be selected to receive a future Award.
Participation
20. . Except to the limited extent provided in Sections 9(f) or 9(g), no Participant (nor any beneficiary) shall have any of the rights or privileges of a stockholder of the Company with respect to any Shares issuable pursuant to an Award (or exercise thereof), unless and until Shares shall have been issued, recorded on the records of the Company or its transfer agents or registrars, and delivered to the Participant (or beneficiary).
No Rights as Stockholder
21. . Prior to the delivery of any Shares or cash pursuant to an Award (or exercise thereof), the Company shall have the power and the right to deduct or withhold, or require a Participant to remit to the Company, an amount sufficient to satisfy federal, state, local and foreign taxes (including the Participant's FICA obligation) required to be withheld with respect to such Award (or exercise thereof). Notwithstanding any contrary provision of the Plan, if a Participant fails to remit to the Company such withholding amount within the time period specified by the Administrator (in its discretion), the Participant's Award may, in the Administrator's discretion, be forfeited and in such case the Participant shall not receive any of the Shares subject to such Award.
Withholding Requirements
22. . To the extent that the Administrator determines that any Award granted under the Plan is subject to Section 409A of the Code, the program pursuant to which such Award is granted and the Award Agreement evidencing such Award shall incorporate the terms and conditions required by Section 409A of the Code. To the extent applicable, the Plan and any Award Agreements shall be interpreted in accordance with Section 409A of the Code and Department of Treasury regulations and other interpretive guidance issued thereunder, including without limitation any such regulations or other guidance that may be issued after the Effective Date. Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan or the applicable Award Agreement to the contrary, in the event that following the Effective Date the Administrator determines that any Award may be subject to Section 409A of the Code and related Department of Treasury guidance (including such Department of Treasury guidance as may be issued after the Effective Date), the Administrator may adopt such amendments to the Plan and the applicable Award Agreement or adopt other policies and procedures (including amendments, policies and procedures with retroactive effect), or take any other actions, that the Administrator determines are necessary or appropriate to (a) exempt the Award from Section 409A of the Code and/or preserve the intended tax treatment
Section 409A
 
of the benefits provided with respect to the Award, or (b) comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code and related Department of Treasury guidance and thereby avoid the application of any penalty taxes under such Section.
23. . The Administrator, in its sole discretion and pursuant to such procedures as it may specify from time to time, may permit or require a Participant to satisfy all or part of the tax withholding obligations in connection with an Award by (a) having the Company withhold otherwise deliverable Shares, or (b) delivering to the Company already-owned Shares having a Fair Market Value equal to the amount required to be withheld. The amount so withheld shall not exceed the amount determined by using the minimum federal, state, local or foreign jurisdiction statutory withholding rates applicable to the Participant with respect to the Award on the date that the amount of tax to be withheld is to be determined. The Fair Market Value of the Shares to be withheld or delivered shall be determined as of the date that the taxes are required to be withheld.
Withholding Arrangements
24. . Each person who is or shall have been a member of the Committee, or of the Board, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Company against and from (a) any loss, cost, liability, or expense that may be imposed upon or reasonably incurred by him or her in connection with or resulting from any claim, action, suit, or proceeding to which he or she may be a party or in which he or she may be involved by reason of any action taken or failure to act under the Plan or any Award Agreement, and (b) from any and all amounts paid by him or her in settlement thereof, with the Company's approval, or paid by him or her in satisfaction of any judgment in any such claim, action, suit, or proceeding against him or her, provided he or she shall give the Company an opportunity, at its own expense, to handle and defend the same before he or she undertakes to handle and defend it on his or her own behalf. The foregoing right of indemnification shall not be exclusive of any other rights of indemnification to which such persons may be entitled under the Company's Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws, by contract, as a matter of law, or otherwise, or under any power that the Company may have to indemnify them or hold them harmless.
Indemnification
25. . All obligations of the Company under the Plan, with respect to Awards granted hereunder, shall be binding on any successor to the Company, whether the existence of such successor is the result of a direct or indirect purchase, merger, consolidation, or otherwise, of all or substantially all of the business or assets of the Company.
Successors
26. . Except where otherwise indicated by the context, any masculine term used herein also shall include the feminine; the plural shall include the singular and the singular shall include the plural.
Gender and Number
27. . In the event any provision of the Plan shall be held illegal or invalid for any reason, the illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts of the Plan, and the Plan shall be construed and enforced as if the illegal or invalid provision had not been included.
Severability
28. . The Plan and all Award Agreements shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of California (with the exception of its conflict of laws provisions).
Governing Law
29. . Captions are provided herein for convenience only, and shall not serve as a basis for interpretation or construction of the Plan.
Captions
 

Exhibit 10.2
1. . The purposes of this 2012 Outside Directors' Stock Plan are to attract and retain highly skilled individuals as Directors of the Company, to provide additional incentive to the Outside Directors of the Company to serve as Directors, and to encourage their continued service on the Board.
Purposes of the Plan
2. . As used herein, the following definitions shall apply:
Definitions
(a) "" means the Board, in accordance with Section 4 of the Plan.
Administrator
(b) "" means the requirements relating to the administration of equity compensation plans under U.S. state corporate laws, U.S. federal and state securities laws, the Code, any stock exchange or quotation system on which the Shares are listed or quoted and the applicable laws of any other country or jurisdiction where Awards are granted under the Plan.
Applicable Laws
(c) "" means, individually or collectively, a grant under the Plan of Options, Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units.
Award
(d) "" means the written or electronic agreement setting forth the terms and conditions applicable to each Award granted under the Plan.
Award Agreement
(e) "" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
Board
(f) "" means the occurrence of any of the following events, in one or a series of related transactions:
Change of Control
(i) any "person," as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act, other than the Company, a subsidiary of the Company or a Company employee benefit plan, including any trustee of such plan acting as trustee, is or becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing fifty percent (50%) or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors; or
(ii) a merger or consolidation of the Company or any direct or indirect subsidiary of the Company with any other corporation, other than a merger or consolidation which would result in the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity) at least fifty percent (50%) of the total voting power represented by the voting securities of the Company or such surviving entity outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation; or
(iii) the sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all the Company's assets; or
(iv) a change in the composition of the Board, as a result of which fewer than a majority of the Directors are Incumbent Directors. "Incumbent Directors" shall mean Directors who either (A) are Directors as of the date this Plan is approved by the Board, or (B) are elected, or nominated for election, to the Board with the affirmative votes of at least a majority of the Directors and whose election or nomination was not in connection with any transaction described in (i) or (ii) above or in connection with an actual or threatened proxy contest relating to the election of directors of the Company.
 
(g) "" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Reference to a specific section of the Code or regulation thereunder shall include such section or regulation, any valid regulation promulgated under such section, and any comparable provision of any future legislation or regulation amending, supplementing or superseding such section or regulation.
Code
(h) "" means the Common Stock of the Company.
Common Stock
(i) "" means Autodesk, Inc., a Delaware corporation, or any successor thereto.
Company
(j) "" means, with respect to an Award, the date that the Award is granted and its exercise price is set (if applicable), consistent with Applicable Laws and applicable financial accounting rules.
Date of Grant
(k) "" means a member of the Board.
Director
(l) "" means total and permanent disability as defined in Section 22(e)(3) of the Code.
Disability
(m) "" means January 6, 2012.
Effective Date
(n) "" means any person, including officers and Directors, employed by the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary of the Company. The payment of a Director's fee or consulting fee by the Company shall not be sufficient in and of itself to constitute "employment" by the Company unless the Director and the Company agree that, as a result of payment of such fees in connection with services rendered, such Director should not be considered an Outside Director.
Employee
(o) "" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Reference to a specific section of the Exchange Act or regulation thereunder shall include such section or regulation, any valid regulation promulgated under such section, and any comparable provision of any future legislation or regulation amending, supplementing or superseding such section or regulation.
Exchange Act
(p) "" means, as of any date, the value of Common Stock determined as follows:
Fair Market Value
(i) If the Common Stock is listed on any established stock exchange or a national market system, including without limitation the Nasdaq National Market of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotation ("Nasdaq") System, the Fair Market Value of a Share of Common Stock shall be the closing sales price for such stock (or the closing bid, if no sales were reported) as quoted on such system or exchange (or the exchange with the greatest volume of trading in Common Stock) on the day of determination; or
(ii) In the absence of an established market for the Common Stock, the Fair Market Value shall be determined in good faith by the Administrator.
(iii) If Fair Market Value is to be determined as of a date which is not a date on which the Common Stock is traded, then the Fair Market Value on such date shall be the Fair Market Value on the next subsequent trading date.
(q) "" means an Option intended to qualify as an incentive stock option within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder.
Incentive Stock Option
(r) "" means a written or electronic notice evidencing certain terms and conditions of an individual Award. The Notice of Grant is part of the Award Agreement.
Notice of Grant
(s) "" means a nonqualified stock option granted pursuant to the Plan which is not intended to qualify as an Incentive Stock Option.
Option
(t) "" means a Director who is not an Employee.
Outside Director
 
(u) "" means a "parent corporation", whether now or hereafter existing, as defined in Section 424(e) of the Code.
Parent
(v) "" means the holder of an outstanding Award granted under the Plan.
Participant
(w) "" means the period during which the transfer of Shares of Restricted Stock are subject to restrictions and therefore, the Shares are subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture.
Period of Restriction
(x) "" means this 2012 Outside Directors' Stock Plan, as set forth in this instrument and as hereafter amended from time to time.
Plan
(y) "" means a retirement from the Board after the retiring Director either (i) has attained 62 years of age and has served on the Board for at least five (5) years, or (ii) has served on the Board for at least ten (10) years.
Qualified Retirement
(z) "" means an Award granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 9.
Restricted Stock
(aa) "" means an Award granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 10.
Restricted Stock Unit
(bb) "" means Rule 16b-3 of the Exchange Act or any successor to Rule 16b-3, as in effect when discretion is being exercised with respect to the Plan.
Rule 16b-3
(cc) "" means a share of the Common Stock, as adjusted in accordance with Section 13 of the Plan.
Share
(dd) "" means a "subsidiary corporation", whether now or hereafter existing, as defined in Section 424(f) of the Code.
Subsidiary
3. .
Stock Subject to the Plan
(a) Subject to the provisions of Section 13 of the Plan, the maximum aggregate number of Shares which may be issued under the Plan is equal to 2,600,000 Shares, which Shares were, as of January 6, 2012, available for issuance under the Company's 2010 Outside Directors' Stock Plan.
(b) The Shares may be authorized, but unissued, or reacquired Common Stock. Subject to Section 3(c) hereof, if an Award expires or becomes unexercisable without having been exercised in full, or with respect to Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units, is forfeited to or repurchased by the Company, the unpurchased Shares (or for Awards other than Options, the forfeited or repurchased Shares) which were subject thereto will become available for future grant or sale under the Plan (unless the Plan has terminated). Shares that have actually been issued under the Plan under any Award will not be returned to the Plan and will not become available for future distribution under the Plan; provided, however, that if unvested Shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units are repurchased by the Company or are forfeited to the Company, such Shares will become available for future grant under the Plan. Shares used to pay the exercise price of an Award will not become available for future grant or sale under the Plan. To the extent an Award under the Plan is paid out in cash rather than Shares, such cash payment will not result in reducing the number of Shares available for issuance under the Plan.
(c) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, each Share subject to an Option shall be counted against the Shares authorized for issuance under the Plan as one Share. Each Share subject to an Award of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units shall be counted against the Shares authorized for issuance under the Plan as 2.11 Shares. Each Share which is subject to an Award of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units granted under the Plan which is forfeited to or repurchased by the Company pursuant to Section 3(b) hereof shall count as having returned 2.11 Shares to the total of number of Shares which are available for future grant or sale under the Plan.
 
4. .
Administration of the Plan
(a) . To the extent desirable to qualify transactions hereunder as exempt under Rule 16b-3, the transactions contemplated hereunder shall be structured to satisfy the requirements for exemption under Rule 16b-3.
Rule 16b-3
(b) . The Board shall be the Administrator of the Plan. Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Administrator shall have the authority, in its discretion:
Powers of the Administrator
(i) to determine the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock, in accordance with Section 2(p) of the Plan;
(ii) to select the individuals to whom Awards may be granted hereunder;
(iii) to determine whether and to what extent Awards are granted hereunder;
(iv) to determine the number of Shares to be covered by each Award granted hereunder;
(v) to approve forms of agreement for use under the Plan;
(vi) to determine the terms and conditions, not inconsistent with the terms of the Plan, of any Award granted hereunder. With respect to Options, such terms and conditions include, but are not limited to, the exercise price, the time or times when Options may be exercised, based in each case on such factors as the Administrator, in its sole discretion, shall determine;
(vii) to construe and interpret the terms of the Plan and Awards granted hereunder;
(viii) to prescribe, amend and rescind rules and regulations relating to the Plan, including rules and regulations relating to sub-plans established for the purpose of qualifying for preferred tax treatment under foreign tax laws;
(ix) to modify or amend each Award (not inconsistent with the terms of the Plan), including the discretionary authority to extend the post-termination exercisability period of Options longer than is otherwise provided for in the Plan;
(x) to authorize any person to execute on behalf of the Company any instrument required to effect the grant of an Award previously granted by the Administrator;
(xi) to determine the terms and restrictions applicable to Awards; and
(xii) to make all other determinations deemed necessary or advisable for administering the Plan.
(c) . The Administrator's decisions, determinations and interpretations shall be final and binding on all Participants and any other holders of Awards and shall be given the maximum deference permitted by law.
Effect of Administrator's Decision
5. . Awards may be granted only to Outside Directors.
Eligibility
6. . Neither the Plan nor any Award shall confer upon a Participant any right with respect to continuing the Participant's service with the Company or its Subsidiaries.
No Service Rights
7. . The Plan shall become effective on January 6, 2012 and continue in effect, unless terminated earlier, until June 30, 2022.
Term of Plan
 
8. .
Stock Options
(a) . Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan, Options may be granted to Outside Directors at any time and from time to time as determined by the Administrator in its sole discretion.
Grant of Options
(b) . The term of each Option shall be stated in the Notice of Grant; , that the term shall be no longer than seven (7) years from the Date of Grant. Subject to the limit set forth in the preceding sentence, the Administrator may, after an Option is granted, extend the maximum term of the Option. Unless otherwise determined by the Administrator, any extension of the term of an Option pursuant to this Section 8(b) shall comply with Code Section 409A.
Term
provided, however
(c) . The per share exercise price for the Shares to be issued pursuant to exercise of an Option shall be determined by the Administrator and shall be no less than 100% of the Fair Market Value per share on the Date of Grant
Option Exercise Price
(d) . The exercise price for an Option may not be reduced without the consent of the Company's stockholders. This shall include, without limitation, a repricing of the Option as well as an Option exchange program whereby the Participant agrees to cancel an existing Option in exchange for (a) Awards with a lower exercise price, (b) a different type of Award, (c) cash, or (d) a combination of (a), (b) and/or (c).
No Repricing
(e) . At the time an Option is granted, the Administrator shall fix the period within which the Option may be exercised and shall determine any conditions which must be satisfied before the Option may be exercised. In so doing, the Administrator may specify that an Option may not be exercised until the completion of a service period.
Waiting Period and Exercise Dates
(f) . The Administrator shall determine the acceptable form of consideration for exercising an Option, including the method of payment. Subject to Applicable Laws, such consideration may consist entirely of:
Form of Consideration
(i) cash;
(ii) check;
(iii) other Shares which (A) in the case of Shares acquired upon exercise of an option, have been owned by the Participant for more than six months on the date of surrender, and (B) have a Fair Market Value on the date of surrender equal to the aggregate exercise price of the Shares as to which said Option shall be exercised;
(iv) delivery to the Company of (A) a properly executed exercise notice together with such other documentation as the Administrator and the broker, if applicable, shall require to effect an exercise of the Option and (B) the sale proceeds required to pay the exercise price;
(v) any combination of the foregoing methods of payment; or
(vi) such other consideration and method of payment for the issuance of Shares to the extent permitted by Applicable Laws; provided, however, that in no case will loans be permitted as consideration for exercising an Option hereunder.
(g) . Any Option granted hereunder shall be exercisable according to the terms of the Plan and at such times and under such conditions as determined by the Administrator and set forth in the Award Agreement.
Exercise of Option; Rights as a Stockholder
An Option may not be exercised for a fraction of a Share.
 
An Option shall be deemed exercised when the Company receives: (i) written or electronic notice of exercise (in accordance with the Award Agreement) from the person entitled to exercise the Option, and (ii) full payment for the Shares with respect to which the Option is exercised. Full payment may consist of any consideration and method of payment authorized by the Administrator and permitted by the Award Agreement and the Plan. Shares issued upon exercise of an Option shall be issued in the name of the Participant. Until such Shares are issued (as evidenced by the appropriate entry on the books of the Company or of a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company), no right to vote or receive dividends or any other rights as a stockholder shall exist with respect to the optioned stock, notwithstanding the exercise of the Option. The Company shall issue (or cause to be issued) such Share promptly after the Option is exercised. No adjustment will be made for a dividend or other right for which the record date is prior to the date the Share is issued, except as provided in Section 13 of the Plan.
Exercising an Option in any manner shall decrease the number of Shares thereafter available for sale under the Option, by the number of Shares as to which the Option is exercised.
(h) . If a Participant ceases to serve as an Outside Director other than by reason of death, Disability or Qualified Retirement, the Participant may exercise his or her Option for seven (7) months following the date of such cessation, to the extent that the Participant was entitled to exercise it on such date.
Termination of Relationship as an Outside Director
(i) . If a Participant ceases to serve as an Outside Director by reason of a Qualified Retirement, then the Participant may exercise his or her Option for three (3) years following the date of such cessation, to the extent that the Participant was entitled to exercise it on such date.
Qualifying Retirement
(j) . If a Participant ceases to serve as an Outside Director by reason of Disability, the Participant may exercise his or her Option for twelve (12) months following the date of such cessation, to the extent that the Participant was entitled to exercise it on such date.
Disability
(k) . If a Participant ceases to serve as an Outside Director by reason of the Participant's death, the Option may be exercised for twelve (12) months following Participant's death, to the extent that the Participant was entitled to exercise it on such date, by the Participant's designated beneficiary, provided such beneficiary has been designated prior to Participant's death in a form acceptable to the Administrator. If no such beneficiary has been designated by the Participant, then such Option may be exercised by the personal representative of the Participant's estate or by the person(s) to whom the Option is transferred pursuant to the Participant's will or in accordance with the laws of descent and distribution.
Death of Participant
(l) . Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event may the Option be exercised after its term has expired. If, on the date of cessation of service as an Outside Director, the Participant is not vested as to his or her entire Option, the Shares covered by the unvested portion of the Option shall revert to the Plan. If, after cessation of service as an Outside Director, the Participant (or the Participant's beneficiary or representative, as the case may be) does not exercise his or her Option within the time specified by the Administrator, the Option shall terminate, and the Shares covered by such Option shall revert to the Plan.
General
9. .
Restricted Stock
(a) . Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan, the Administrator, at any time and from time to time, may grant Shares of Restricted Stock to Outside Directors as the Administrator, in its sole discretion, shall determine.
Grant of Restricted Stock
(b) . Each Award of Restricted Stock shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify the Period of Restriction, the number of Shares granted, and such other terms and conditions as the Administrator, in its sole discretion, shall determine. Unless the Administrator determines otherwise, Shares of Restricted Stock shall be held by the Company as escrow agent until the restrictions on such Shares have lapsed.
Restricted Stock Agreement
 
(c) . Except as provided in this Section 9, Shares of Restricted Stock may not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated until the end of the applicable Period of Restriction.
Transferability
(d) . The Administrator, in its sole discretion, may impose such other restrictions on Shares of Restricted Stock as it may deem advisable or appropriate, in accordance with this Section 9(d).
Other Restrictions
(i) . The Administrator may set restrictions based upon continued service with the Company and its affiliates, applicable federal or state securities laws, other Applicable Laws, or any other basis determined by the Administrator in its discretion.
General Restrictions
(ii) . The Administrator, in its discretion, may legend the Shares representing Restricted Stock to give appropriate notice of such restrictions.
Legend
(e) . Except as otherwise provided in this Section 9, Shares of Restricted Stock covered by each Restricted Stock grant made under the Plan shall be released from escrow as soon as practicable after the last day of the Period of Restriction. The Administrator, in its discretion, may accelerate the time at which any restrictions shall lapse or be removed. After the restrictions have lapsed, the Participant shall be entitled to have any legend or legends under Section 9(d)(ii) removed from his or her Share, and the Shares shall be freely transferable by the Participant. The Administrator (in its discretion) may establish procedures regarding the release of Shares from escrow and the removal of legends, as necessary or appropriate to minimize administrative burdens on the Company.
Removal of Restrictions
(f) . During the Period of Restriction, Participants holding Shares of Restricted Stock granted hereunder may exercise full voting rights with respect to those Shares, unless the Administrator determines otherwise.
Voting Rights
(g) . During the Period of Restriction, Participants holding Shares of Restricted Stock shall be entitled to receive all dividends and other distributions paid with respect to such Shares unless otherwise provided in the Award Agreement. Any such dividends or distribution shall be subject to the same restrictions on transferability and forfeitability as the Shares of Restricted Stock with respect to which they were paid, unless otherwise provided in the Award Agreement.
Dividends and Other Distributions
(h) . On the date set forth in the Award Agreement, the Restricted Stock for which restrictions have not lapsed shall revert to the Company and again shall become available for grant under the Plan.
Return of Restricted Stock to the Company
10. .
Restricted Stock Units
(a) .
Grant of Restricted Stock Units
(i) Each Outside Director who first joins the Board shall be automatically granted 12,400 Restricted Stock Units (the "Initial Restricted Stock Units") upon the date of the first meeting of the Board at which such person first serves as an Outside Director (which shall be (i) in the case of an Outside Director elected by the stockholders of the Company, the first meeting of the Board after the meeting of stockholders at which such Outside Director was elected or (ii) in the case of an Outside Director appointed by the Board to fill a vacancy, the meeting of the Board at which such Outside Director is appointed); provided, however, that no Restricted Stock Unit shall be settled or paid under the Plan until stockholder approval of the Plan has been obtained in accordance with Section 14(b) hereof; and provided further, however, that the number of Shares subject to a grant of Initial Restricted Stock Units shall be subject to review and revision by the Board on an annual basis.
 
(ii) On the date of each annual stockholder meeting (an "Annual Meeting") during the term of this Plan, each Outside Director shall automatically receive an additional award of 8,300 Restricted Stock Units (the "Annual Restricted Stock Units"), provided that (1) the Annual Restricted Stock Units shall be granted only to an Outside Director who has served on the Board for at least six full months prior to the date of grant and (2) the grant of Annual Restricted Stock Units shall be subject to the Outside Director's continued service; provided, however, that the number of Shares subject to a grant of Annual Restricted Stock Units shall be subject to review and revision by the Board on an annual basis.
(iii) Each grant of Initial Restricted Stock Units shall vest at the rate of 1/3 on each of the first three anniversaries of its date of grant, provided that the Participant is an Outside Director on such date. Each grant of Annual Restricted Stock Units shall vest on the date of the following year's Annual Meeting, provided that the Participant is an Outside Director on such date.
(iv) On or before December 31 of the calendar year prior to each Annual Meeting during the term of this Plan, each Outside Director may make an election (the "Election") to receive any or all of his or her annual cash retainer that will be earned for services performed as an Outside Director in calendar years after the calendar year in which the election is made in the form of a Restricted Stock Unit Award. The Election must be in writing and delivered to the Secretary of the Company on or prior to December 31 of the calendar year prior to such Annual Meeting. Any such Election made by an Outside Director shall be irrevocable and shall comply with Section 409A of the Code to the extent applicable unless otherwise determined by the Board. Effective as of immediately following the Annual Meeting, the Outside Director shall receive a Restricted Stock Unit Award for that number of Shares determined by dividing (1) the product of (a) the amount of his or her annual retainer as an Outside Director covered by the Election, multiplied by (b) 1.2, by (2) the Fair Market Value of a Share on that date, rounded down to the nearest whole Share, provided that on the date of grant of any such Restricted Stock Unit Award such person is an Outside Director; and provided further that sufficient Shares are available under the Plan for the grant of such Restricted Stock Unit Award.Such Restricted Stock Unit Award shall vest on the date of the following year's Annual Meeting of Stockholders of the Company, provided that the Participant is an Outside Director on such date.
(b) . Each Restricted Stock Unit shall have an initial value equal to the Fair Market Value of a Share on the Grant Date.
Value of Restricted Stock Units
(c) . Each Award of Restricted Stock Units shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify the vesting conditions, the number of Restricted Stock Units granted, and such other terms and conditions as the Administrator, in its sole discretion, shall determine.
Restricted Stock Unit Agreement
(d) . Payment of vested Restricted Stock Units shall be made as soon as practicable after vesting (subject to any deferral permitted under Section 18). The Administrator, in its sole discretion, may pay Restricted Stock Units in the form of cash, in Shares or in a combination thereof.
Form and Timing of Payment of Restricted Stock Units
(e) . On the date set forth in the Award Agreement, all unvested Restricted Stock Units shall be forfeited to the Company and, except as otherwise determined by the Administrator, again shall be available for grant under the Plan.
Cancellation of Restricted Stock Units
11. . Unless the Administrator provides otherwise or except as otherwise required by Applicable Laws, vesting of Awards granted hereunder shall continue during any leave of absence approved by the Administrator.
Leaves of Absence
12. . Unless determined otherwise by the Administrator, an Award may not be sold, pledged, assigned, hypothecated, transferred, or disposed of in any manner other than by will or by the laws of descent or distribution and may be exercised, during the lifetime of the recipient, only by the recipient. If the Administrator makes an Award transferable, such Award shall contain such additional terms and conditions
Non-Transferability of Awards
 
as the Administrator deems appropriate; provided, however, that such Award shall in no event be transferable for value. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Participant may, if the Administrator (in its discretion) so permits, transfer an Award to an individual or entity other than the Company. Any such transfer shall be made in accordance with such procedures as the Administrator may specify from time to time.
13. .
Adjustments Upon Changes in Capitalization
(a) Subject to any required action by the stockholders of the Company, the number of Shares covered by each outstanding Award, the number of Shares which have been authorized for issuance under the Plan but as to which no Awards have yet been granted or which have been returned to the Plan upon cancellation or expiration of an Award, as well as the price per Share of Common Stock covered by each such outstanding Award, shall be proportionately adjusted for any increase or decrease in the number of issued Shares resulting from a stock split, reverse stock split, stock dividend, combination or reclassification of the Common Stock, or any other increase or decrease in the number of issued Shares effected without receipt of consideration by the Company; , that conversion of any convertible securities of the Company shall not be deemed to have been "effected without receipt of consideration." Such adjustment shall be made by the Compensation Committee, whose determination in that respect shall be final, binding and conclusive. Except as expressly provided herein, no issuance by the Company of shares of stock of any class, or securities convertible into shares of stock of any class, shall affect, and no adjustment by reason thereof shall be made with respect to, the number or price of shares of Common Stock subject to an Award.
provided, however
(b) . In the event of the proposed dissolution or liquidation of the Company, the Administrator shall notify each Participant as soon as practicable prior to the effective date of such proposed transaction. The Administrator in its discretion may provide for a Participant to have the right to exercise his or her Award until ten (10) days prior to such transaction as to all of the Shares covered thereby, including Shares as to which the Award would not otherwise be exercisable. In addition, the Administrator may provide that any Company repurchase option or forfeiture rights applicable to any Award shall lapse 100%, and that any Award vesting shall accelerate 100%, provided the proposed dissolution or liquidation takes place at the time and in the manner contemplated. To the extent it has not been previously exercised, an Award will terminate immediately prior to the consummation of such proposed action.
Dissolution or Liquidation
(c) . In the event of a Change of Control, each outstanding Award shall be assumed or an equivalent Award substituted by the successor corporation or a Parent or Subsidiary of the successor corporation.
Change of Control
In the event that the successor corporation refuses to assume or substitute for the Award, the Participant shall fully vest in and have the right to exercise all of his or her outstanding Options, including Shares as to which such Awards would not otherwise be vested or exercisable, all restrictions on Restricted Stock will lapse and all Restricted Stock Units shall become fully vested. In addition, if an Option is not assumed or substituted in the event of a Change of Control, the Administrator shall notify the Participant in writing or electronically that the Option shall be fully vested and exercisable for a period of fifteen (15) days from the date of such notice, and the Option shall terminate upon the expiration of such period.
For the purposes of this paragraph, an Award shall be considered assumed if, following the Change of Control, the Award confers the right to purchase or receive, for each Share subject to the Award immediately prior to the Change of Control, the consideration (whether stock, cash, or other securities or property) received in the Change of Control by holders of Common Stock for each Share held on the effective date of the transaction (and if holders were offered a choice of consideration, the type of consideration chosen by the holders of a majority of the outstanding Shares); , that if such consideration received in the Change of Control is not solely common stock of the successor corporation or its Parent, the Administrator may, with the consent of the successor corporation, provide for the consideration to be received upon the exercise of an
provided, however
 
Option or upon the payout of the Restricted Stock Unit Award, for each Share subject to the Award, to be solely common stock of the successor corporation or its Parent equal in fair market value to the per share consideration received by holders of Common Stock in the Change of Control.
14. .
Amendment and Termination of the Plan
(a) . Subject to Section 8(d) hereof, the Board may at any time amend, alter, suspend or terminate the Plan; provided, however, that to the extent necessary and desirable to comply with any Applicable Law, the Company shall obtain stockholder approval of any Plan amendment in such a manner and to such a degree as required.
Amendment and Termination
(b) . No amendment, alteration, suspension or termination of the Plan shall impair the rights of any Participant, unless mutually agreed otherwise between the Participant and the Administrator, which agreement must be in writing (or electronic format) and signed by the Participant and the Company.
Effect of Amendment or Termination
15. .
Conditions Upon Issuance of Shares
(a) . Shares shall not be issued pursuant to the exercise of an Award unless the exercise of such Award and the issuance and delivery of such Shares shall comply with Applicable Laws and shall be further subject to the approval of counsel for the Company with respect to such compliance.
Legal Compliance
(b) . As a condition to the exercise or receipt of Shares pursuant to an Award, the Company may require the person exercising or receiving Shares pursuant to an Award to represent and warrant at the time of any such exercise or receipt that the Shares are being purchased only for investment and without any present intention to sell or distribute such Shares if, in the opinion of counsel for the Company, such a representation is required.
Investment Representations
16. .
Liability of Company
(a) . The inability of the Company to obtain authority from any regulatory body having jurisdiction, which authority is deemed by the Company's counsel to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any Shares hereunder, shall relieve the Company of any liability in respect of the failure to issue or sell such Shares as to which such requisite authority shall not have been obtained.
Inability to Obtain Authority
(b) . If the Shares covered by an Award exceed, as of the Date of Grant, the number of Shares which may be issued under the Plan without additional stockholder approval, such Award shall be void with respect to such excess Shares, unless stockholder approval of an amendment sufficiently increasing the number of Shares subject to the Plan is timely obtained in accordance with Section 14(b) of the Plan.
Grants Exceeding Allotted Shares
17. . The Company, during the term of this Plan, will at all times reserve and keep available such number of Shares as shall be sufficient to satisfy the requirements of the Plan.
Reservation of Shares
18. . The Administrator, in its sole discretion, may permit a Participant to defer receipt of the payment of cash or the delivery of Shares that would otherwise be due to such Participant under an Award. Any such deferral elections shall be subject to such rules and procedures as shall be determined by the Administrator in its sole discretion.
Deferrals
19. . No Outside Director shall have the right to be selected to receive an Award under this Plan, or, having been so selected, to be selected to receive a future Award.
Participation
 
20. . Except to the limited extent provided in Sections 9(f) or 9(g), no Participant (nor any beneficiary) shall have any of the rights or privileges of a stockholder of the Company with respect to any Shares issuable pursuant to an Award (or exercise thereof), unless and until such Shares shall have been issued, recorded on the records of the Company or its transfer agents or registrars, and delivered to the Participant (or beneficiary).
No Rights as Stockholder
21. . To the extent that the Administrator determines that any Award granted under the Plan is subject to Section 409A of the Code, the program pursuant to which such Award is granted and the Award Agreement evidencing such Award shall incorporate the terms and conditions required by Section 409A of the Code. To the extent applicable, the Plan and any Award Agreements shall be interpreted in accordance with Section 409A of the Code and Department of Treasury regulations and other interpretive guidance issued thereunder, including without limitation any such regulations or other guidance that may be issued after the Effective Date. Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan or the applicable Award Agreement to the contrary, in the event that following the Effective Date the Administrator determines that any Award may be subject to Section 409A of the Code and related Department of Treasury guidance (including such Department of Treasury guidance as may be issued after the Effective Date), the Administrator may adopt such amendments to the Plan and the applicable Award Agreement or adopt other policies and procedures (including amendments, policies and procedures with retroactive effect), or take any other actions, that the Administrator determines are necessary or appropriate to (a) exempt the Award from Section 409A of the Code and/or preserve the intended tax treatment of the benefits provided with respect to the Award, or (b) comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code and related Department of Treasury guidance and thereby avoid the application of any penalty taxes under such Section.
Section 409A
22. . Each person who is or shall have been a member of the Committee, or of the Board, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Company against and from (a) any loss, cost, liability, or expense that may be imposed upon or reasonably incurred by him or her in connection with or resulting from any claim, action, suit, or proceeding to which he or she may be a party or in which he or she may be involved by reason of any action taken or failure to act under the Plan or any Award Agreement, and (b) from any and all amounts paid by him or her in settlement thereof, with the Company's approval, or paid by him or her in satisfaction of any judgment in any such claim, action, suit, or proceeding against him or her, provided he or she shall give the Company an opportunity, at its own expense, to handle and defend the same before he or she undertakes to handle and defend it on his or her own behalf. The foregoing right of indemnification shall not be exclusive of any other rights of indemnification to which such persons may be entitled under the Company's Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws, by contract, as a matter of law, or otherwise, or under any power that the Company may have to indemnify them or hold them harmless.
Indemnification
23. . All obligations of the Company under the Plan, with respect to Awards granted hereunder, shall be binding on any successor to the Company, whether the existence of such successor is the result of a direct or indirect purchase, merger, consolidation, or otherwise, of all or substantially all of the business or assets of the Company.
Successors
24. . Except where otherwise indicated by the context, any masculine term used herein also shall include the feminine; the plural shall include the singular and the singular shall include the plural.
Gender and Number
25. . In the event any provision of the Plan shall be held illegal or invalid for any reason, the illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts of the Plan, and the Plan shall be construed and enforced as if the illegal or invalid provision had not been included.
Severability
26. . The Plan and all Award Agreements shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of California (with the exception of its conflict of laws provisions).
Governing Law
27. . Captions are provided herein for convenience only, and shall not serve as a basis for interpretation or construction of the Plan.
Captions
 


