FILE:ADSK/ADSK-8K-20120223160236.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On February 23, 2012, Autodesk, Inc. (Autodesk or the Company) issued a press release and prepared remarks reporting financial results for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended January 31, 2012.  The press release and prepared remarks are furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference.
 
These exhibits shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
To supplement Autodesks consolidated financial statements presented on a GAAP basis, the press release and prepared remarks furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, respectively, provide investors with certain non-GAAP measures, including but not limited to historical non-GAAP net earnings and historical and future non-GAAP net earnings per diluted share. For our internal budgeting and resource allocation process, Autodesks management uses non-GAAP measures that do not include: (a) stock-based compensation expenses, (b) amortization of purchased intangibles and purchases of technology, (c) restructuring charges, (d) discrete tax items, and (e) the income tax effects on the difference between GAAP and non-GAAP costs and expenses.  Autodesks management uses non-GAAP measures in making operating decisions because we believe the measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding Autodesks earning potential. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures facilitate comparisons to our and our competitors historical results and operating guidance.
 
As described above, Autodesk excludes the following items from its non-GAAP measures:
 
A. Autodesk excludes stock-based compensation expenses from its non-GAAP measures primarily because they are non-cash expenses and management finds it useful to exclude certain non-cash charges to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods.
Stock-based compensation expenses.
 
B. Autodesk incurs amortization of acquisition-related purchased intangible assets, primarily in connection with its acquisition of certain businesses and technologies. The amortization of purchased intangibles varies depending on the level of acquisition activity, and management finds it useful to exclude these variable charges to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods.
Amortization of purchased intangibles and purchases of technology.
 
C. These expenses are associated with realigning our business strategies based on current economic conditions. In connection with these restructuring actions, we recognize costs related to termination benefits for former employees whose positions were eliminated, and the closure of facilities and cancelation of certain contracts. We exclude these charges because these expenses are not reflective of ongoing operating results in the current period.
Restructuring charges.
 
D. Autodesk excludes its GAAP tax provision, including discrete items, from its non-GAAP measure of income, and includes a non-GAAP tax provision based upon its projected annual non-GAAP effective tax rate. Management believes this approach assists investors in understanding the tax provision and the effective tax rate related to the Companys ongoing operations.
Discrete tax items.
 
E. The income tax effects that are excluded from the non-GAAP measures relate to the tax impact on the difference between GAAP and non-GAAP costs and expenses, primarily due to differences in the timing of when income tax benefits are recognized for stock compensation and purchased intangibles for GAAP and non-GAAP measures.
Income tax effects on the difference between GAAP and non-GAAP costs and expenses.
 
 
 
 
 
There are limitations in using non-GAAP financial measures because the non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. In addition, the non-GAAP financial measures are limited in value because they exclude certain items that may have a material impact upon our reported financial results. Management compensates for these limitations by analyzing current and future results on a GAAP basis as well as a non-GAAP basis and also by providing GAAP measures in our earnings release and prepared remarks. The presentation of non-GAAP financial information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The non-GAAP financial measures are meant to supplement, and be viewed in conjunction with, GAAP financial measures. Investors should review the information regarding non-GAAP financial measures provided in our press release and prepared remarks.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)  Exhibits.
                 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Date:  February 23, 2012
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
-- (NASDAQ: ADSK) today reported financial results for the fourth quarter and full fiscal year 2012.
SAN RAFAEL, Calif., February 23, 2012
Autodesk, Inc.
 
 
Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2012
 
 
Full Year Fiscal 2012
 
 
 
 
1
 
Our strong fourth quarter performance capped a terrific year for Autodesk, said , Autodesk president and CEO.  We finished the year with another strong quarter of diversified revenue growth and increased profitability.  Demand for our suites, AutoCAD, and AutoCAD LT products led to strong revenue growth across all of our geographies and record revenues in the Americas.  We also achieved record revenue in both our Manufacturing and AEC business segments.
Carl Bass
 
Were proud of the strong revenue and profitability growth that we delivered in fiscal 2012, continued Bass.  We made progress on all of our key initiatives including accelerating our cloud-based initiatives and launching our new design and creation suites, which we believe positions Autodesk for success in the future.  We also unveiled our new PLM initiative.  As we kick off fiscal 2013, we aim to delight our customers with our ever-improving product portfolio while delivering continued revenue and profitability growth.
Fourth Quarter Operational Overview
 
EMEA revenue was $234 million, an increase of 10 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year as reported and 8 percent on a constant currency basis.  Revenue in the Americas was a record $226 million, an increase of 17 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year.  Revenue in Asia Pacific was $133 million, an increase of 9 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year as reported and 3 percent on a constant currency basis.  Revenue from emerging economies was $95 million, an increase of 12 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year as reported and 14 percent on a constant currency basis.  Revenue from emerging economies represented 16 percent of total revenue in the fourth quarter.
 
Revenue from the Platform Solutions and Emerging Business segment was $214 million, an increase of 18 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year.  Revenue from the Architecture, Engineering and Construction business segment was a record $175 million, an increase of 8 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year.  Revenue from the Manufacturing business segment was a record $148 million, an increase of 11 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year.  Revenue from the Media and Entertainment business segment was $55 million, an increase of 7 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year.
 
 
 
2
 
 
Our strong fourth quarter results topped an excellent year of consistent performance and growth, said Mark Hawkins, Autodesk executive vice president, chief financial officer.  We generated strong growth in revenue from commercial new licenses, record maintenance billings, and solid cash flow from operations.  We achieved strong operating margin expansion in the quarter, driven by revenue growth and continued focus on cost controls.  The operating margin growth was consistent with the growth weve been able to achieve over the past two years.  With $1.6 billion in cash and marketable securities, no debt and a record deferred revenue balance, we ended the fiscal year with an exceptionally strong balance sheet.
Business Outlook
 
The following statements are forward-looking statements that are based on current expectations and assumptions, and involve risks and uncertainties some of which are set forth below.  Autodesks business outlook for the first quarter and full year fiscal 2013 assumes a continuation of the current economic environment and foreign exchange currency rate environment.
First Quarter Fiscal 2013
 
 
Non-GAAP earnings per diluted share exclude $0.10 related to stock-based compensation expense and $0.07 for the amortization of acquisition related intangibles, net of tax.
 
 
 
3
 
 
Full Year Fiscal 2013
 
Net revenue for fiscal 2013 is expected to increase by at least 10 percent compared to fiscal 2012.  Autodesk anticipates fiscal 2013 GAAP operating margin to increase by approximately 130 basis points and non-GAAP operating margin to increase by approximately 200 basis points compared to fiscal 2012.  A reconciliation between the GAAP and non-GAAP estimates for fiscal 2013 is provided in the tables following this press release.
 
Both first quarter fiscal 2013 and full year fiscal 2013 outlooks assume an effective tax rate of approximately 26.5 percent for both GAAP and non-GAAP results.  This rate does not include the federal R&D tax credit benefit, which expired on December 31, 2011.  The assumed effective tax rate will be adjusted if or when there is a renewal of the tax credit. 
Earnings Conference Call and Webcast
 
Autodesk will host its fourth quarter conference call today at 5:00 p.m. ET. The live broadcast can be accessed at http://www.autodesk.com/investors. Supplemental financial information and prepared remarks for the conference call will be posted to the investor relations section of Autodesks website simultaneously with this press release.
NOTE:
The prepared remarks will not be read on the conference call.  The conference call will include only brief remarks followed by questions and answers.
 
A replay of the broadcast will be available at 7:00 pm ET at http://www.autodesk.com/investors. This replay will be maintained on Autodesks website for at least 12 months.
 
 
 
4
 
Safe Harbor Statement
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including statements regarding increased shareholder value with continued revenue and profitability growth, statements in the paragraphs under Business Outlook above, and other statements regarding our expected strategies, market and products positions, performance, and results.  There are a significant number of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from statements made in this press release, including:  general market, political, economic and business conditions, failure to maintain our revenue growth and profitability, our performance in particular geographies, including emerging economies, failure to successfully incorporate sales of licenses of products suites into our overall sales strategy, failure to successfully expand adoption of our products, failure to maintain cost reductions and productivity increases or otherwise control our expenses, slowing momentum in maintenance billings or revenues, difficulties encountered in integrating new or acquired businesses and technologies, the inability to identify and realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions, the financial and business condition of our reseller and distribution channels, fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates, the success of our foreign currency hedging program, failure to achieve sufficient sell-through in our channels for new or existing products, pricing pressure, unexpected fluctuations in our tax rate, the timing and degree of expected investments in growth and efficiency opportunities, changes in the timing of product releases and retirements, failure of key new applications to achieve anticipated levels of customer acceptance, failure to achieve continued success in technology advancements, interruptions or terminations in the business of Autodesk consultants, the expense and impact of legal or regulatory proceedings, and any unanticipated accounting charges.
 
Further information on potential factors that could affect the financial results of Autodesk are included in Autodesks report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 31, 2011 and Forms 10-Q for the quarters ended April 30, 2011, July 31, 2011 and October 31, 2011, which are on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Autodesk does not assume any obligation to update the forward-looking statements provided to reflect events that occur or circumstances that exist after the date on which they were made.
 
About Autodesk
 
Autodesk, Inc., is a leader in , engineering and entertainment software. Customers across the manufacturing, architecture, building, construction, and media and entertainment industries  including the last 16 Academy Award winners for Best Visual Effects  use Autodesk software to design, visualize, and simulate their ideas. Since its introduction of AutoCAD software in 1982, Autodesk continues to develop the broadest portfolio of state-of-the-art software for global markets. For additional information about Autodesk, visit .
3D design
www.autodesk.com
 
 
 
5
 
 
Autodesk AutoCAD and AutoCAD LT are registered trademarks or trademarks of Autodesk, Inc., and/or its subsidiaries and/or affiliates in the USA and/or other countries. Academy Award is a registered trademark of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences. All other brand names, product names, or trademarks belong to their respective holders. Autodesk reserves the right to alter product and service offerings, and specifications and pricing at any time without notice, and is not responsible for typographical or graphical errors that may appear in this document.
 
 2012 Autodesk, Inc. All rights reserved.
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reconciliation for Fiscal 2013:
The following is a reconciliation of anticipated fiscal 2013 GAAP and non-GAAP operating margins:
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
Autodesk is posting a copy of these prepared remarks and its press release to its Investor Relations website.  These prepared remarks are offered to provide shareholders and analysts with additional time and detail for analyzing our results in advance of our quarterly conference call. As previously scheduled, the conference call will begin today, February 23, 2012 at 2:00 pm PT (5:00 pm ET) and will include only brief comments followed by questions and answers. These prepared remarks will not be read on the call.
 
To access the live broadcast of the question and answer session, please visit the Investor Relations section of Autodesks website at www.autodesk.com/investor.  A complete reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP results is provided in the tables following these prepared remarks.
Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2012 Overview
 
Driven by strong fourth quarter results, Autodesk grew revenue by 14 percent and recorded a strong increase in profitability in fiscal 2012.  GAAP operating margin increased 210 basis points to 16 percent and non-GAAP operating margin increased 260 basis points to 24 percent in fiscal 2012.  GAAP diluted earnings per share increased 36 percent and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share increased 32 percent in fiscal 2012.  Growth in the fourth quarter was diversified across all major geographies and was led by the Americas which achieved record revenue results.  Suites continued to lead product growth while AutoCAD and AutoCAD LT posted solid growth as well.  Additional fourth quarter highlights include diversified growth across all business segments, record revenue achieved by both the Architecture, Engineering and Construction (AEC) and Manufacturing businesses, record maintenance billings, record deferred revenue, solid cash flow from operations, and strong improvement in operating margin and earnings per share.
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
Revenue Analysis
 
 
Total net revenue for the fourth quarter was $592 million, an increase of 12 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year as reported and 10 percent on a constant currency basis.  Total net revenue for the fourth quarter increased 8 percent sequentially as reported and 8 percent on a constant currency basis.
License and other revenue was $370 million, an increase of 12 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year, and 12 percent sequentially.
Revenue from commercial new licenses increased 18 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year, and 10 percent sequentially.
Maintenance revenue was a record $222 million, an increase of 12 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year, and 2 percent sequentially.
 
 
 
2
 
 
The fourth quarter was a record for net maintenance billings, which increased 18 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year, and 48 percent sequentially due to typical seasonality, increased renewal rates, and an increase in multi-year subscriptions.
Revenue by Geography
 
 
Revenue in EMEA was $234 million, an increase of 10 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year as reported and 8 percent on a constant currency basis.  EMEA revenue increased 16 percent sequentially as reported and 17 percent on a constant currency basis.  Our EMEA region experienced particular strength in northern Europe and emerging economies, partially offset by weakness in southern Europe.  EMEA also benefited from strength in large deal activity (deals greater than $1 million in total value) in our Manufacturing and AEC business segments.
 
Revenue in the Americas was a record $226 million, an increase of 17 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year and 13 percent sequentially.  Strength in the Americas was broad based across all business segments and strong growth in the U.S., Canada, Mexico, and Brazil.
Revenue in APAC was $133 million, an increase of 9 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year as reported and 3 percent on a constant currency basis.  Revenue in APAC decreased 9 percent sequentially as reported and 9 percent on a constant currency basis.  Year-over-year growth in APAC was diversified with strength in Southeast Asia, China and South Korea.   The sequential decline in revenue from APAC was against a difficult compare in the third quarter, which benefited from a large deal.
 
 
 
3
 
 
Revenue from emerging economies was $95 million, an increase of 12 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year as reported and 14 percent on a constant currency basis.  Revenue from emerging economies increased 9 percent sequentially as reported and 13 percent on a constant currency basis.
Revenue by Product Type
 
 
  Revenue by Product Type for periods prior to 1Q 2012 have been presented to conform with the current presentation.
1
Revenue from Flagship products was $331 million and increased 7 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year, and 6 percent sequentially.  Growth in Flagship was driven by strength in both AutoCAD and AutoCAD LT.
Revenue from Suites was $162 million, or 27 percent of total revenue.  Revenue from Suites increased 25 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year, and 7 percent sequentially.  Suites continue to gain acceptance globally led by growth in our AEC and Manufacturing suites.  Suites revenue includes previously existing suites, such as our Inventor and Revit family suites, as well as recently launched design and creation suites.
Revenue from New and Adjacent products was $99 million and increased 11 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year, and 15 percent sequentially.  Growth in New and Adjacent was driven by simulation, consumer, and consulting services.
As our customers migrate from our stand-alone products to Suites, we anticipate that our revenue from Suites will increase as a percentage of total revenue and that our revenue from our Flagship and New and Adjacent products will similarly decline as a percentage of total revenue.
 
 
 
4
 
 
Revenue by Business Segment
 
 
Revenue from our Platform Solutions and Emerging Business (PSEB) segment was $214 million, an increase of 18 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year and 2 percent sequentially.  Combined revenue from AutoCAD and AutoCAD LT was $191 million, an increase of 16 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year, and 11 percent sequentially.  Revenue from PSEB suites grew 88 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year and decreased 27 percent sequentially off a small base.  The sequential decline was related to a seasonal decrease in educational suites.
Revenue from our AEC business segment was a record $175 million, an increase of 8 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year and 15 percent sequentially.  Revenue from our AEC suites increased 32 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year and 22 percent sequentially.  Growth in AEC was led by strength in the Americas and continued adoption of AEC suites.  We also experienced continued penetration in the government vertical and won another contract with a state department of transportation.
Revenue from our Manufacturing business segment was a record $148 million, an increase of 11 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year and 11 percent sequentially.  Revenue from our Manufacturing suites increased 11 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year and 8 percent sequentially.  Growth in our manufacturing segment was led by continued adoption of our core manufacturing design products and suites, as well as strong growth in our simulation offerings.
Revenue from our Media and Entertainment (M&E) business segment was $55 million, an increase of 7 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year and 4 percent sequentially.  Revenue from our animation products including Maya, 3dsMax, and our Entertainment Creation Suites increased 11 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year and decreased 2 percent sequentially.  Revenue growth from animation products was led by strength in 3dsMax.  Revenue from Creative Finishing decreased 1 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year and increased 21 percent sequentially.
 
 
 
5
 
 
Margins and EPS Review
 
 
GAAP gross margin in the fourth quarter was 90 percent.  Non-GAAP gross margin in the fourth quarter was 92 percent.  The year-over-year decrease of both GAAP and non-GAAP gross margin is primarily related to an increase in our consulting business costs.  The expected sequential increase of both GAAP and non-GAAP gross margin is primarily related to a seasonal increase in revenue including large deals.
GAAP operating expenses increased 9 percent year-over-year and 11 percent sequentially.  Non-GAAP operating expenses increased 6 percent year-over-year and 11 percent sequentially.  The year-over-year increase in operating expenses is primarily related to higher employee related costs and higher professional fees.  The sequential increase in operating costs is related to seasonally higher sales commissions and employee related costs, as well as higher professional fees.   
GAAP operating margin was 15 percent and increased 190 basis points compared to the fourth quarter last year.  GAAP operating margin decreased 90 basis points sequentially.
 
 
 
6
 
 
Non-GAAP operating margin was 24 percent and increased 360 basis points compared to the fourth quarter last year.  The year-over-year increase in both GAAP and non-GAAP operating margin was driven primarily by increased revenue.  Non-GAAP operating margin decreased 90 basis points sequentially.   The sequential decrease in both GAAP and non-GAAP operating margin was driven primarily by a seasonal increase in sales commissions and employee related costs, as well as higher professional fees.
The fourth quarter effective tax rate was 23 percent for our GAAP results and 25 percent for our non-GAAP results.
Earnings per diluted share for the fourth quarter were $0.31 GAAP and $0.46 non-GAAP.
The share count used to compute basic net income per share was 226.1 million.  The share count used to compute diluted net income per share was 231.5 million.
A complete reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP results is provided in the tables following these prepared remarks.
 
Foreign Currency Impact
 
 
The foreign currency impact represents the U.S. Dollar impact of changes in foreign currency rates on our financial results as well as the impact of gains and losses from our hedging program.
Compared to the fourth quarter of last year, the impact of foreign currency exchange rates including the impact of our hedging program was $12 million favorable on revenue and $5 million unfavorable on cost of revenue and operating expenses.
 
 
 
7
 
 
Compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2012, the impact of foreign currency exchange rates and hedging was $2 million unfavorable on revenue and $4 million favorable on expenses.
 
Balance Sheet Items and Cash Review
 
 
Total cash and investments at the end of the fourth quarter was approximately $1.6 billion.  In the fourth quarter we closed 5 small business and technology acquisitions totaling close to $40 million (net of cash acquired).
During the fourth quarter, Autodesk used approximately $64 million to repurchase 2 million shares of common stock at an average price of $31.79 per share.  For the full year, Autodesk used approximately $327 million to repurchase 9.7 million shares of common stock at an average repurchase price of $33.71 per share.
Cash flow from operating activities during the fourth quarter was $175 million, approximately flat compared to the fourth quarter last year and an increase of 27 percent sequentially.
Days sales outstanding (DSO) was 61 days, an increase of 6 days compared to the fourth quarter last year and 18 days sequentially.  The year-over-year increase is primarily related to a shift in billings linearity.  The sequential increase is primarily the result of seasonally strong maintenance billings and a shift in billings linearity.   
  
Deferred revenue was a record $719 million, an increase of 22 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year and 16 percent sequentially.  The year-over-year increase is primarily due to increased maintenance billings.  The sequential increase is primarily related to seasonally higher maintenance billings and an increase in maintenance renewal rates.
 
 
 
8
 
 
Shippable backlog at the end of the fourth quarter was $27 million, a decrease of $1 million compared to the fourth quarter last year and an increase of $5 million sequentially.
At the end of the fourth quarter, channel inventory was approximately 1 week.  In fiscal 2013, Autodesk is making certain new licenses in most developed countries available through electronic delivery.  In anticipation of this move, we initiated a plan to reduce inventory in the channel.  Over the past two quarters, we reduced inventory in the channel by approximately $13 million in total.  This phase of the initiative is now complete.  Over time, we expect to phase in electronic delivery of new licenses in emerging countries as well.
Financial Highlights for Fiscal 2012
 
 
 
 
9
 
 
Business Outlook
 
The following statements are forward-looking statements that are based on current expectations and assumptions, and involve risks and uncertainties some of which are set forth below.  Autodesks business outlook for the first quarter and full year fiscal 2013 assumes a continuation of the current economic environment and foreign exchange currency rate environment.
First Quarter Fiscal 2013
 
 
Non-GAAP earnings per diluted share exclude $0.10 related to stock-based compensation expense and $0.07 for the amortization of acquisition related intangibles, net of tax.
The majority of the projected euro and yen denominated net revenue for our first quarter fiscal 2013 has been hedged, which should help reduce the impact of currency fluctuations on our first quarter results.  However, over an extended period of time, currency fluctuations will increasingly impact our results.
Full Year Fiscal 2013
 
Net revenue for fiscal 2013 is expected to increase by at least 10 percent compared to fiscal 2012.  Autodesk anticipates fiscal 2013 GAAP operating margin to increase by approximately 130 basis points and non-GAAP operating margin to increase by approximately 200 basis points compared to fiscal 2012. A reconciliation between the GAAP and non-GAAP estimates for fiscal 2013 is provided in the tables following these prepared remarks.
Both first quarter fiscal 2013 and full year fiscal 2013 outlooks assume an effective tax rate of approximately 26.5 percent for both GAAP and non-GAAP results.  This rate does not include the federal R&D tax credit benefit, which expired on December 31, 2011.  The assumed effective tax rate will be adjusted if or when there is a renewal of the tax credit. 
 
 
 
10
 
 
Over an extended period of time, currency fluctuations will increasingly impact our results. We hedge our net exposures using a four quarter rolling layered hedge program.  As such, a portion of the projected euro, yen, and Australian dollar denominated net revenue for our fiscal 2013 has been hedged.  The closer to the current time period, the more we are hedged.  See below for more details on our foreign currency hedging program.
Autodesks Foreign Currency Hedging Program and Calculation of Constant Currency Growth
 
Given the recent foreign exchange volatility, we would like to provide a brief summary of how we handle foreign currency exchange hedging as well as a description of how we calculate constant currency growth rates.  A few points on our hedging program include:
 
 
 
When we report period-over-period growth rate percentages on a constant currency basis, we attempt to represent the changes in the underlying business operations by eliminating fluctuations caused by changes in foreign currency exchange rates as well as eliminating hedge gains or losses recorded within the current and comparative period.  However, when we calculate the foreign currency impact of exchange rates in the current and comparative period on our financial results (See table in above Foreign Currency Impact section) we include the U.S. Dollar impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates as well as the impact of gains and losses recorded as a result of our hedging program.
 
 
 
11
 
Autodesks Product Type Classification
 
The following represents Autodesks current view for product categorization. Autodesk will periodically make changes to this list.  This is not a complete list.
 
 
Flagship includes the following products:
 
 
Suites include the following products classes:
 
 
 
 
12
 
 
New and Adjacent includes the following products and services:
 
Safe Harbor Statement
 
These prepared remarks contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including statements regarding increased shareholder value with continued revenue and profitability growth, statements in the paragraphs under Business Outlook above, statements regarding anticipated revenue performance and trends (including by geography, product, product type, and end user), electronic product delivery and the related reduction of channel inventory, the impact of foreign exchange hedges and other statements regarding our expected strategies, performance and results.  There are a significant number of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from statements made in these remarks, including: general market, political, economic and business conditions, failure to maintain our revenue growth and profitability, our performance in particular geographies, including emerging economies, failure to successfully incorporate sales of licenses of products suites into our overall sales strategy, failure to successfully expand adoption of our products, failure to maintain cost reductions and productivity increases or otherwise control our expenses, slowing momentum in maintenance billings or revenues, difficulties encountered in integrating new or acquired businesses and technologies, the inability to identify and realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions, the financial and business condition of our reseller and distribution channels, fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates, the success of our foreign currency hedging program, failure to achieve sufficient sell-through in our channels for new or existing products, pricing pressure, unexpected fluctuations in our tax rate, the timing and degree of expected investments in growth and efficiency opportunities, changes in the timing of product releases and retirements, failure of key new applications to achieve anticipated levels of customer acceptance, failure to achieve continued success in technology advancements, interruptions or terminations in the business of Autodesk consultants, the expense or impact of legal or regulatory proceedings, and any unanticipated accounting charges.
 
 
 
13
 
 
Further information on potential factors that could affect the financial results of Autodesk are included in Autodesks report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 31, 2011 and Forms 10-Q for the quarters ended April 30, 2011, July 31, 2011 and October 31, 2011, which are on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Autodesk does not assume any obligation to update the forward-looking statements provided to reflect events that occur or circumstances that exist after the date on which they were made.
 
 2012 Autodesk, Inc. All rights reserved.
 
 
 
14
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reconciliation for Fiscal 2013:
The following is a reconciliation of anticipated fiscal 2013 GAAP and non-GAAP operating margins:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


