Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition," contain both historical and forward looking statements. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward looking statements within the meaning of section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward looking statements are not based on historical facts, but rather reflect the Companys current expectations concerning future results and events. These forward looking statements generally can be identified by the use of statements that include phrases such as "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "plan," "foresee," "likely," "will" or other similar words or phrases. Similarly, statements that describe the Companys objectives, plans or goals are or may be forward looking statements. These forward looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that are difficult to predict and which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the Company to be different from any future results, performance and achievements expressed or implied by these statements. More information about these risks, uncertainties and other factors is set forth below. There may be additional risks, uncertainties and factors that the Company does not currently view as material or that are not necessarily known. The forward looking statements included in this document are only made as of the date of this document and the Company does not have any obligation to publicly update any forward looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances. RISK FACTORS For an enterprise as large and complex as the Company, a wide range of factors could affect our business and financial results. The factors described below are considered to be the most significant. There may be other currently unknown or unpredictable economic, business, competitive, regulatory or other factors that could have material adverse effects on the Companys future results. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. I 26  A Decline in Advertising Expenditures Could Cause the Companys Revenues and Operating Results to Decline Significantly in Any Given Period or in Specific Markets The Company derives substantial revenues from the sale of advertising on its broadcast and basic cable networks, television stations, radio stations, outdoor media and syndicated programming. A decline in the economic prospects of advertisers, the economy in general or the economy of any individual geographic market, particularly a major market such as Los Angeles, New York or Chicago, in which the Company owns and operates sizeable businesses, could alter current or prospective advertisers spending priorities. Disasters, acts of terrorism, political uncertainty or hostilities could lead to a reduction in advertising expenditures as a result of uninterrupted news coverage and economic uncertainty. Advertising expenditures may also be affected by increasing competition for the leisure time of audiences. In addition, advertising expenditures by companies in certain sectors of the economy, including the automotive, financial and pharmaceutical segments, represent a significant portion of the Companys advertising revenues. Any political, economic, social or technological change resulting in a reduction in these sectors advertising expenditures may adversely affect the Companys revenue. Advertisers willingness to purchase advertising from the Company may also be affected by a decline in audience ratings for the Companys programming, the inability of the Company to retain the rights to popular programming, increasing audience fragmentation caused by the proliferation of new media formats, including cable networks, the Internet and video on demand and the deployment of portable digital devices which allow consumers to time shift programming and skip or fast forward through advertisements. The Companys revenues from outdoor advertising also depend on the Companys continued ability to obtain the right to use effective outdoor advertising space. Any reduction in advertising expenditures could have an adverse effect on the Companys revenues and results of operations. The Companys Success Is Dependent upon Audience Acceptance of Its Content, Particularly its Television and Radio Programs, Which Is Difficult to Predict Television and radio content production and distribution are inherently risky businesses because the revenues derived from the production and distribution of a television or radio program, and the licensing of rights to the intellectual property associated with the program, depend primarily upon their acceptance by the public, which is difficult to predict. The commercial success of a television or radio program also depends upon the quality and acceptance of other competing programs released into the marketplace at or near the same time, the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, general economic conditions and other tangible and intangible factors, all of which are difficult to predict. Rating points are also factors that are weighed when determining the advertising rates that the Company receives. Poor ratings can lead to a reduction in pricing and advertising spending. For example, there can be no assurance that any replacement programming on the Companys radio or television stations will generate the same level of revenues or profitability of previous programming. In addition, the success of the Companys cable networks and Simon & Schuster is dependent in part on audience acceptance of its programming and publications, respectively. Consequently, low public acceptance of the Companys content, particularly its television and radio programs, will have an adverse effect on the Companys results of operations. Failure by the Company to Obtain, Create and Retain the Rights in Popular Programming Could Adversely Affect the Companys Revenues Operating results from the Companys programming businesses fluctuate primarily with the acceptance of such programming by the public, which is difficult to predict. The Companys revenue from its television and radio business is therefore partially dependent on the Companys continued ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in consumer tastes and behavior on a timely basis. Moreover, the Company derives a meaningful portion of its revenues from the exploitation of its extensive library of television programming. Generally, a television series must have a network run of at least three or four years to be successfully sold in domestic syndication. If the content of its television programming library ceases to be widely accepted by audiences or is not continuously replenished with popular content, the Companys revenues could be I 27 adversely affected. The Company obtains a significant portion of its popular programming from third parties. For example, some of CBS Networks most widely viewed broadcasts, including the NCAA Division 1 Mens Basketball Championship, golfs Masters Tournament and PGA Championship, and NFL games, are made available based upon programming rights of varying duration that the Company has negotiated with third parties. In addition, Showtime Networks enters into commitments to acquire rights to feature films and other programming for Showtime, The Movie Channel and FLIX from motion picture producers and other suppliers for varying durations, and CBS Radio acquires the broadcast rights to syndicated shows and to various programs, such as sports events from third parties. Competition for popular programming that is licensed from third parties is intense, and the Company may be outbid by its competitors for the rights to new, popular programming or in connection with the renewal of popular programming currently licensed by the Company. The Companys failure to obtain or retain rights to popular content could adversely affect the Companys revenues. Any Decrease in Popularity of the Programming for Which the Company Has Incurred Significant Commitments Could Have an Adverse Effect on Its Profitability Programming and talent commitments of the Company, estimated to aggregate approximately $14.16 billion as of December 31, 2005, included $9.89 billion for the acquisition of sports programming rights, $2.86 billion relating to television, radio and film production and acquisitions and $897.8 million for talent contracts, with $3.09 billion of these amounts payable in and after 2011. A shortfall, now or in the future, in the expected popularity of the sports events for which the Company has acquired rights, or in the television and radio programming the Company expects to air, could lead to decreased profitability or losses for a significant period of time. The Companys Operating Results Are Subject to Seasonal Variations The Companys business has experienced and is expected to continue to experience seasonality due to, among other things, seasonal advertising patterns, seasonal theme park attendance and seasonal influences on peoples viewing, reading and listening habits. Typically, the Companys revenue from advertising increases in the fourth quarter, Simon & Schuster generates a substantial portion of its revenues in the fourth quarter and Paramount Parks revenues from admissions are primarily generated in the second and third quarters. In addition, advertising revenues in even numbered years benefit from advertising placed by candidates for political offices. The effect of such seasonality makes it difficult to estimate future operating results based on the previous results of any specific quarter. The Companys Businesses Operate in Highly Competitive Industries The Company competes with other media companies for high quality content and attractive outdoor advertising space to achieve large audiences and to generate advertising revenue. The Company also competes for distribution on various cable, DTH satellite and other platforms. The Companys ability to attract viewers and advertisers and obtain favorable distribution depends in part on its ability to provide popular television, syndicated programming and radio programming and books, as well as well placed outdoor advertising faces. In addition, the consolidation of advertising agencies, distributors and television service providers has made competition for viewers, advertising revenue, and distribution more intense. In addition, consolidation among book retailers has resulted in increased competition for limited shelf space for the Companys publications. Competition for viewers and advertising comes from: broadcast television stations and networks; cable television systems and networks; the Internet; terrestrial and satellite radio and portable digital audio players; outdoor advertisers; local, regional and national newspapers; direct mail; and other communications and advertising media that operate in these markets. Other television and radio stations or cable networks may change their formats or programming, a new station or new network may adopt a format to compete directly with the Companys stations or networks, or stations or networks might engage in aggressive promotional campaigns. This competition could result in lower ratings and advertising and subscription revenues or increased promotional and other expenses and, consequently, lower earnings and cash flow for the Company. The Company cannot assure you that it will be able to I 28 compete successfully in the future against existing or potential competitors, or that competition will not have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition or results of operations. The Company Must Respond to Rapid Changes in Technology, Services and Standards in Order to Remain Competitive Video, telecommunications, radio and data services technologies used in the entertainment industry are changing rapidly. Advances in technologies or alternative methods of product delivery or storage, or certain changes in consumer behavior driven by these or other technologies and methods of delivery and storage, could have a negative effect on the Companys businesses. Examples of such advances in technologies include video on demand, satellite radio, new video and electronic book formats and downloading from the Internet and digital outdoor displays. For example, devices that allow users to view or listen to television or radio programs on a time delayed basis and technologies that enable users to fast forward or skip advertisements, such as DVRs and portable digital devices, may cause changes in consumer behavior that could affect the attractiveness of the Companys offerings to advertisers and could therefore adversely affect its revenues. In addition, further increases in the use of portable digital devices which allow users to view or listen to content of their own choosing, in their own time, while avoiding traditional commercial advertisements, could adversely affect the Companys radio and television broadcasting advertising and subscription revenues. Cable providers and DTH satellite operators are developing new techniques that allow them to transmit more channels on their existing equipment to highly targeted audiences, reducing the cost of creating channels and potentially leading to the division of the television marketplace into more specialized niche audiences. More television options increase competition for viewers and competitors targeting programming to narrowly defined audiences may gain an advantage over the Company for television advertising and subscription revenues. The ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in technology on a timely basis and exploit new sources of revenue from these changes will affect the Companys ability to continue to grow and increase its revenue. Increased Programming and Content Costs May Adversely Affect the Companys Profits The Company produces and acquires programming and content and incurs costs for all types of creative talent, including actors, authors, writers and producers. An increase in the costs of such programming and content or in the costs for creative talent may lead to decreased profitability. Piracy of the Companys Programming and Other Content, Including Digital and Internet Piracy, May Decrease Revenue Received from the Exploitation of the Companys Programming and Other Content and Adversely Affect Its Businesses and Profitability Piracy of programming is prevalent in many parts of the world and is made easier by technological advances allowing conversion of programming and other content into digital formats, which facilitates the creation, transmission and sharing of high quality unauthorized copies of the Companys content. The proliferation of unauthorized copies and piracy of these products has an adverse effect on the Companys businesses and profitability because these products reduce the revenue that the Company potentially could receive from the legitimate sale and distribution of its products and services. In addition, if piracy were to increase, it would have an adverse effect on the Companys businesses and profitability. Changes in U.S. Communications Laws or Other Regulations May Have an Adverse Effect on the Companys Business The television and radio broadcasting and distribution industries in the U.S. are highly regulated by U.S. federal laws and regulations issued and administered by various federal agencies, including the FCC. The television and radio broadcasting industry is subject to extensive regulation by the FCC under the Communications Act. For example, the Company is required to obtain licenses from the FCC to operate its radio and television stations. The Company cannot assure you that the FCC will approve its future renewal applications or that the renewals will be for full terms or will not include conditions or qualifications. The non renewal, or renewal with substantial conditions or modifications, of one or more of I 29 the Companys licenses could have a material adverse effect on the Companys revenues. The Company must also comply with extensive FCC regulations and policies in the ownership and operation of its television and radio stations and its television networks. FCC regulations prohibit the ownership of more than one of the top four networks, ABC, CBS, FOX and NBC, and limit the number of television and radio stations that a licensee can own in a market and the number of television stations that can be owned nationwide, which could restrict the Companys ability to consummate future transactions and in certain circumstances could require it to divest some television or radio stations. New FCC rules on childrens television programming could adversely affect the Company. The Company and public interest groups, among others, have entered into a settlement agreement, which, if adopted by the FCC, would moot the concerns. In the meantime, the FCC has stayed the effectiveness of the new rules pending its decision of whether to accept the settlement. As part of the nationwide transition from analog to digital broadcasting, the Companys full power television stations are required to transmit a digital signal 100% of the time they are transmitting an analog signal. This requirement increases the Companys operating costs. At the end of the analog to digital period, which is scheduled to occur in February 2009, these television stations will be required to cease analog transmissions. The Company is unable to predict the extent to which consumers will acquire digital television receivers or digital conversion devices for analog television receivers and the effect of the cessation of analog broadcasting on viewership. In addition, the Company is unable to predict the extent or timing of consumer demand for digital television services and the resulting impact on the Companys viewership. The U.S. Congress and the FCC currently have under consideration, and may in the future adopt, new laws, regulations, and policies regarding a wide variety of matters that could, directly or indirectly, affect the operation and ownership of the Companys radio and television properties. For example, from time to time, proposals have been advanced in the U.S. Congress and at the FCC to require radio and television broadcast stations to provide advertising time to political candidates for free or at a reduced charge. In addition, some policymakers maintain that cable operators should be required to offer a la carte programming to subscribers on a network by network basis or "family friendly" programming tiers. The FCC recently issued a report finding that consumers would benefit if cable operators were required to offer programming on an a la carte basis because of greater choice and the opportunity to lower bills. Unbundling packages of program services may increase both competition for carriage on distribution platforms and marketing expenses, which could adversely affect the Companys cable networks results of operations. Changes to the media ownership and other FCC rules may affect the competitive landscape in ways that could increase the competition faced by the Company. Proposals have also been advanced from time to time before the U.S. Congress and the FCC to extend the program access rules (currently applicable only to those cable program services which also own or are owned by cable distribution systems) to all cable program services. The Companys ability to obtain the most favorable terms available for its content could be adversely affected should such an extension be enacted into law. In addition, changes in international laws may have an adverse impact on the Companys international businesses. The Company is unable to predict the effect that any such laws, regulations or policies may have on its operations. Vigorous Enforcement or Enhancement of FCC Indecency and Other Program Content Rules Against the Broadcast and Cable Industries Could Have an Adverse Effect on the Companys Businesses and Results of Operations The FCCs rules prohibit the broadcast of obscene material at any time and indecent or profane material on television or radio broadcast stations between the hours of 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. Broadcasters risk violating the prohibition against broadcasting indecent material because of the vagueness of the FCCs definition of indecent material, coupled with the spontaneity of live programming. The FCC vigorously enforces its indecency rules against the broadcasting industry as a whole. The FCC has indicated that it is stepping up its enforcement activities as they apply to indecency, and has threatened to initiate license revocation proceedings against broadcast licensees for "serious" indecency violations. The FCC has found on a number of occasions recently, chiefly with regard to radio stations, that the content of broadcasts has contained indecent material. In such instances, the FCC issued fines to the offending licensees. Moreover, I 30 the FCC has recently begun imposing separate fines for each allegedly indecent "utterance," in contrast with its previous policy, which generally considered all indecent words or phrases within a given program as constituting a single violation. In addition, legislation has been introduced in the U.S. Congress which would, among other things, (i) significantly increase the fines for indecent broadcasts, (ii) specify that all indecency violations are "serious" violations for license renewal purposes and (iii) mandate an evidentiary hearing to consider the revocation of a stations license or construction permit of any station that has had three indecency violations during its license term. If the FCC denied a license renewal for one of the Companys broadcast radio or television stations, the Company would lose its authority to operate the station. The determination of whether content is indecent is inherently subjective and, as such, it can be difficult to predict whether particular content could violate indecency standards. The difficulty in predicting whether individual programs, words or phrases may violate the FCCs indecency rules adds significant uncertainty to the Companys ability to comply with the rules. Violation of the indecency rules could lead to sanctions which may adversely affect the Companys businesses and results of operations. Some policymakers also support the extension of the indecency rules that are applicable to over the air broadcasters to cover cable and satellite programming and or attempts to step up enforcement of or otherwise expand existing laws and rules. If such an extension, attempt to step up enforcement or other expansion took place and were found to be constitutional, some of the Companys cable content could be subject to additional regulation and might not be able to attract the same subscription and viewership levels. The Loss of Affiliation Agreements or Retransmission Agreements Could Materially Adversely Affect the Companys Results of Operations CBS and UPN television networks provide their affiliates with up to 98 and 10 hours, respectively, of programming per week. In return, CBS Networks affiliated stations and UPNs affiliated stations broadcast network inserted commercials during that programming. Loss of network affiliation agreements of CBS and UPN television networks could adversely affect the Companys results of operations by reducing the reach of the Companys programming and therefore its attractiveness to advertisers and renewal on less favorable terms may also adversely affect the Companys results of operations. The 50/50 joint venture between the Company and Warner Bros. Entertainment is pursuing affiliation agreements for the launch of The CW network and there can be no assurance that broad distribution for the network will be achieved. The non renewal or termination of retransmission agreements with distributors such as Comcast Corporation, Time Warner Cable, a division of Time Warner Inc., DIRECTV Holdings LLC, or EchoStar Communications Corporation or continued distribution on less favorable terms, could also adversely affect the Companys ability to distribute its network programming to a nationwide audience and affect the Companys ability to sell advertising, which could have a material adverse effect on the Companys results of operations. Showtime Networks and the CSTV cable network are also dependent upon the maintenance of affiliation agreements with cable and DTH satellite operators, and there can be no assurance that these affiliation agreements will be renewed in the future on terms acceptable to such entities. The loss of one or more of these arrangements would reduce the distribution of Showtime Networks and CSTVs program services and reduce revenues from subscriber fees, as applicable. Further, the loss of favorable packaging, positioning, pricing or other marketing opportunities with any distributor could reduce revenues from subscriber fees. In addition, consolidation among cable and DTH satellite operators and increased vertical integration of such distributors into the cable or broadcast network business have provided more leverage to these providers and could adversely affect the Companys ability to maintain or obtain distribution for its network programming or distribution and or marketing of its subscription program services on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. I 31 The Failure or Destruction of Satellites and Transmitter Facilities That the Company Depends Upon to Distribute Its Programming Could Materially Adversely Affect the Companys Businesses and Results of Operations The Company uses satellite systems to transmit its broadcast and cable networks to affiliates. The distribution facilities include uplinks, communications satellites and downlinks. Transmissions may be disrupted as a result of local disasters that impair on ground uplinks or downlinks, or as a result of an impairment of a satellite. Currently, there are a limited number of communications satellites available for the transmission of programming. If a disruption occurs, the Company may not be able to secure alternate distribution facilities in a timely manner. Failure to secure alternate distribution facilities in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on the Companys businesses and results of operations. In addition, each of the Companys television and radio stations and cable networks uses studio and transmitter facilities that are subject to damage or destruction. Failure to restore such facilities in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on the Companys businesses and results of operations. The Company Could Suffer Losses Due to Asset Impairment Charges for Goodwill, Intangible Assets, FCC Licenses and Programming In accordance with SFAS 142, the Company will test goodwill and intangible assets, including broadcast licenses, for impairment during the fourth quarter of each year, and on an interim date should factors or indicators become apparent that would require an interim test. A downward revision in the fair value of a reporting unit or intangible assets could result in an impairment under SFAS 142 and a non cash charge would be required. Any significant shortfall, now or in the future, in the expected popularity of the programming for which the Company has acquired rights could lead to a downward revision in the fair value of such assets. Any such charge could have a material effect on the Companys reported net earnings. The Loss of Key Personnel, Including Talent, Could Disrupt the Management or Operations of the Companys Business and Adversely Affect Its Revenues The Companys business depends upon the continued efforts, abilities and expertise of its chief executive officer and other key employees and entertainment personalities. The Company believes that the unique combination of skills and experience possessed by its executive officers would be difficult to replace, and that the loss of its executive officers could have a material adverse effect on the Company, including the impairment of the Companys ability to execute its business strategy. Additionally, the Company employs or independently contracts with several entertainment personalities and authors with significant loyal audiences. Entertainment personalities are sometimes significantly responsible for the ranking of a television or radio station and, therefore, the ability of the station to sell advertising, and an authors popularity can be significantly responsible for the success of a particular book. There can be no assurance that these entertainment personalities and authors will remain with the Company or will retain their current audiences or readership. If the Company fails to retain these entertainment personalities and authors or they lose their current audiences or readership, the Companys revenues could be adversely affected. Regulation of the Outdoor Advertising Industry Could Materially Adversely Affect the Companys Outdoor Business The outdoor advertising industry is subject to extensive governmental regulation and enforcement at the federal, state and local levels in the U.S. and to national, regional and local restrictions in foreign countries. These regulations and enforcement actions can affect the operation and continuance of operations of advertising displays and include restrictions on the construction, repair, upgrading, height, size and location of outdoor advertising structures and, in some instances, the content of advertising copy that can be displayed on these structures. In addition, in recent years, outdoor advertising has become the subject of targeted state and municipal taxes. Such laws may reduce the Companys expansion opportunities or may increase competitive pressure from others. The Company cannot give any assurance that existing or future laws or regulations will not materially and adversely affect its outdoor business. I 32 If Accidents Occur at Paramount Parks or Competing Parks, Attendance at Paramount Parks May Decline Which Would Negatively Impact the Companys Revenues There are inherent risks involved with the attractions at theme parks. An accident or an injury at any of Paramount Parks theme parks could expose the Company to significant liability for personal injury claims. In addition, an accident or injury at these parks or at parks operated by competitors of Paramount Parks may create public concern and negative media coverage about the safety of theme parks and reduce attendance at Paramount Parks theme parks, which would negatively impact the Companys revenues. Fluctuations in Foreign Exchange Rates Could Have an Adverse Effect on the Companys Results of Operations Certain of the Companys revenues are earned and expenses are incurred in foreign currencies. The value of these currencies fluctuates relative to the U.S. dollar. As a result, the Company is exposed to exchange rate fluctuations, which could have an adverse effect on its results of operations. The Companys Liabilities Related to Discontinued Operations and Former Businesses Could Adversely Impact Its Financial Condition The Company has both recognized and potential liabilities and costs related to discontinued operations and former businesses, certain of which are unrelated to the media business, including leases, guarantees, environmental liabilities, liabilities related to the pensions and medical expenses of retirees, asbestos liabilities, contractual disputes and other pending and threatened litigation. The Company cannot assure you that its reserves are sufficient to cover these liabilities in their entirety or any one of these liabilities when it becomes due or at what point any of these liabilities may come due. Therefore, there can be no assurances that these liabilities will not have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial position, operating performance or cash flow. The Company Could Be Adversely Affected by Strikes and Other Union Activity The Company and its suppliers engage the services of writers, directors, actors and other talent, trade employees and others who are subject to collective bargaining agreements. If the Company or its suppliers are unable to renew expiring collective bargaining agreements, it is possible that the affected unions could take action in the form of strikes or work stoppages. Such actions, higher costs in connection with these agreements or a significant labor dispute could adversely affect the Companys television and radio businesses by causing delays in the production of the Companys television or radio programming or the Companys outdoor business by disrupting its ability to place advertising on outdoor faces. Political and Economic Risks Associated with the Companys International Businesses Could Harm the Companys Financial Condition or Results of Operations The Companys businesses operate and have customers worldwide. Inherent risks of doing business in international markets include, among other risks, changes in the economic environment, export restrictions, exchange controls, tariffs and other trade barriers and longer payment cycles. The Company may incur substantial expense as a result of the imposition of new restrictions or changes in the existing economic environment in the regions where it does business. In addition, acts of terrorism or other hostilities, or other future financial, political, economic or other uncertainties, could lead to a reduction in advertising expenditures, which could materially adversely affect the Companys business, financial condition or results of operations. NAI, Through Its Voting Control of the Company, is in a Position to Control Actions that Require Stockholder Approval NAI, through its beneficial ownership of the Companys Class A Common Stock, has voting control of the Company. Mr. Sumner M. Redstone, the controlling stockholder, chairman of the board of directors and chief executive officer of NAI, serves as Executive Chairman of the Companys Board of Directors, and Ms. Shari Redstone, the president and a director of NAI, serves as Vice Chair of the Companys Board of I 33 Directors. In addition, Messrs. Andelman and Dauman are directors of NAI and they are directors of the Company. NAI is in a position to control the outcome of corporate actions that require stockholder approval, including the election of directors and transactions involving a change of control. Other stockholders are unable to affect the outcome of the corporate actions of the Company for so long as NAI retains voting control. Many Factors May Cause the Stock Price of the Companys Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock to Fluctuate The stock price of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock may fluctuate significantly as a result of many factors. These factors, some or all of which are beyond the Companys control, include: lack of a trading history since the Separation; actual or anticipated fluctuations in CBS Corp.s operating results; changes in expectations as to CBS Corp.s future financial performance or changes in financial estimates of securities analysts; success of CBS Corp.s operating and growth strategies; investor anticipation of strategic, technological or regulatory threats, whether or not warranted by actual events; operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies; and realization of any of the risks described in these risk factors. In addition, the stock market has experienced volatility that often has been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the trading prices of the Companys common stock, regardless of the Companys actual operating performance.  Risks Related to the Separation The Financial Results of the Company May Be Subject to Increased Variability After the Separation After the Separation, the Company has market dynamics and economics that may be different from Former Viacom. The businesses that the Company operates are sensitive to general economic conditions, consumer confidence, consumer retail spending, interest rates, adverse publicity, competition and trends in technology. The diversification that Former Viacom had prior to the Separation, resulting from operating the businesses of New Viacom alongside the businesses of the Company, may have moderated financial and operational volatility. Following the Separation, that diversification diminishes, and the Company may experience increased volatility in terms of cash flow, seasonality, working capital and financing requirements. The Businesses of the Company and New Viacom Will Be Attributable to the Other Company for Certain Regulatory Purposes So long as the Company and New Viacom are under common control, each companys businesses, as well as the businesses of any other commonly controlled company, will be attributable to the other company for purposes of U.S. and non U.S. antitrust rules and regulations, certain rules and regulations of the FCC, and certain rules regarding political campaign contributions in the U.S., among others. The businesses of one company will continue to be attributable to the other company for certain FCC purposes even after the two companies cease to be commonly controlled, if the two companies share common officers, directors, or attributable stockholders. As a result, the businesses and conduct of New Viacom may have the effect of limiting the activities or strategic business alternatives available to the Company. I 34 The Separation Agreement Prohibits the Company from Engaging in Certain Types of Businesses Under the terms of the Separation Agreement entered into between the Company and New Viacom in connection with the Separation, the Company may not make acquisitions, enter into agreements or accept or agree to any condition that purports to bind New Viacom or subjects New Viacom to restrictions it is not otherwise subject to by legal order without New Viacoms consent. The Company and New Viacom have agreed that prior to the earliest of (1) the fourth anniversary of the Separation, (2) the date on which none of Mr. Redstone, NAI, NAIRI, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of NAI, or any of their successors, assigns or transferees are deemed to have interests in both the Company and New Viacom that are attributable under applicable U.S. federal laws and (3) the date on which the other company ceases to own the video programming vendors that it owns as of the Separation, neither of them will own or acquire an interest in a cable television operator if such ownership would subject the other company to U.S. federal laws regulating contractual relationships between video programming vendors and video programming distributors that the other company is not then subject to. These restrictions could limit the strategic business alternatives available to the Company. The Tax Matters Agreement and the Tax Rules Applicable to the Separation May Restrict the Companys Ability to Engage in Certain Corporate Transactions In connection with the Separation, the Company and New Viacom entered into a tax matters agreement dated December 30, 2005, which is filed as an exhibit to this report, effective as of the Separation (the "Tax Matters Agreement"). The Tax Matters Agreement provides, among other things, that, depending on the event, New Viacom may have to indemnify the Company, or the Company may have to indemnify New Viacom, for some or all of the taxes resulting from the merger and the distribution of New Viacom common stock in the merger if the merger and distribution do not qualify as a tax free distribution under Sections 355 and 368 of the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"). In addition, the current U.S. federal income tax law creates a presumption that the distribution of New Viacom common stock in the merger would be taxable to Former Viacom, but not to its stockholders, if either New Viacom or the Company engages in, or enters into an agreement to engage in, a transaction that would result in a 50% or greater change, by vote or value, in the Companys or New Viacoms stock ownership during the four year period that begins two years before the date of the Separation, unless it is established that the transaction was not undertaken pursuant to a plan or series of transactions related to the Separation. The Treasury Regulations currently in effect generally provide that whether such distribution is part of a plan is determined based on all of the facts and circumstances, including, but not limited to, specific factors described in the Treasury Regulations. In addition, the Treasury Regulations provide several "safe harbors" for acquisition transactions that are not considered to be part of a plan. The indemnification obligations set forth in the Tax Matters Agreement and the above described provisions of the tax law may prevent the Company from entering into transactions which might be advantageous to its stockholders, such as issuing equity securities to satisfy financing needs or acquiring businesses or assets with equity securities, and may make the Company less attractive to a potential acquiror and reduce the possibility that an acquiror will propose or seek to effect certain transactions with the Company. If the Merger Is Determined to Be Taxable, the Company and its Stockholders Could Be Subject to a Material Amount of Taxes Former Viacom received an opinion of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP and a private letter ruling from the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS), in each case, to the effect that, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the merger and the distribution of New Viacom common stock in the merger qualified as a tax free distribution under Sections 355 and 368 of the Code and the distribution of the Companys common stock in the merger was also generally tax free to Former Viacom and its stockholders. In accordance with current IRS ruling policy, the IRS ruling does not address certain significant issues relating to qualification under Section 355 of the Code and, as to those issues, Former Viacom relied on an opinion of counsel. The merger was structured to be tax free for U.S. federal income tax purposes to Former Viacom stockholders, except with respect to cash received in lieu of fractional I 35 shares of CBS Corp. common stock. The merger was also tax free to the Company for U.S. federal income tax purposes, except with respect to taxes arising out of foreign and other internal restructurings undertaken in connection with the Separation and any "excess loss account" or "intercompany transaction" required to be taken into account by Former Viacom under the Treasury Regulations. The IRS ruling was based on the facts presented and representations made by Former Viacom in the ruling request. Generally, an IRS private letter ruling will not be revoked or modified retroactively unless there was an omission or misstatement of a material fact or a breach of a material representation. If the facts or representations are found to be incorrect or incomplete in a material respect or if the facts at the time of the Separation were materially different from the facts upon which the IRS ruling was based, the Company cannot rely on the IRS ruling. An opinion of counsel is not binding on the IRS or any court and is also based on representations and assumptions included therein. If the factual representations and assumptions were incorrect, the Company cannot rely on the tax opinion. If the merger is determined to be taxable, the Company and its stockholders who received shares of CBS Corp. common stock would be subject to a material amount of taxes. CBS Corp. will not indemnify any individual stockholder for any taxes that may be incurred in connection with the Separation. In Connection with the Separation, Each Company Will Rely on the Other Companys Performance Under Various Agreements Between the Companies In connection with the Separation, the Company and New Viacom entered into various agreements, including the Separation Agreement, the Tax Matters Agreement, a transition services agreement pursuant to which the Company and New Viacom have agreed to provide certain specified services to each other following the Separation (the "transition services agreement") and certain related party arrangements pursuant to which the Company and New Viacom will provide services and products to each other from and after the Separation. The Separation Agreement sets forth the allocation of assets, liabilities, rights and obligations of the Company and New Viacom following the Separation, and includes indemnification obligations for such liabilities and obligations. In addition, pursuant to the Tax Matters Agreement, certain income tax liabilities and related responsibilities are allocated between, and indemnification obligations are assumed by, each of the Company and New Viacom. Each company will rely on the other to satisfy its performance and payment obligations under these agreements. Certain of the liabilities to be assumed or indemnified by the Company or New Viacom under these agreements are legal or contractual liabilities of the other company. If New Viacom were to breach or be unable to satisfy its material obligations under these agreements, including a failure to satisfy its indemnification obligations, the Company could suffer operational difficulties or significant losses. Certain Members of Management, Directors and Stockholders May Face Actual or Potential Conflicts of Interest The management and directors of the Company own both CBS Corp. common stock and New Viacom common stock, and both the Company and New Viacom are controlled by NAI. Mr. Redstone, the controlling stockholder, chairman of the board of directors and chief executive officer of NAI, serves as Executive Chairman of the Companys Board of Directors and executive chairman of New Viacoms board of directors. Ms. Redstone, the president and a director of NAI, serves as Vice Chair of the Board of Directors of each of the Company and New Viacom. Messrs. David R. Andelman and Philippe P. Dauman are directors of NAI, and Mr. Dauman serves as a director of both the Company and New Viacom and Mr. Andelman serves as a director of the Company. This ownership overlap and these common directors could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when the Companys and New Viacoms management, directors and controlling stockholder face decisions that could have different implications for the Company and New Viacom. For example, potential conflicts of interest could arise in connection with the resolution of any dispute between the Company and New Viacom regarding the terms of the agreements governing the Separation and the relationship between the Company and New Viacom thereafter. These agreements include, among others, the Separation Agreement, the Tax Matters I 36 Agreement, the transition services agreement and any commercial agreements between the parties or their affiliates. Potential conflicts of interest could also arise if the Company and New Viacom enter into any commercial arrangements with each other in the future. Each of Mr. Redstone, Ms. Redstone and Mr. Dauman may also face conflicts of interest with regard to the allocation of his or her time between the Company and New Viacom. CBS Corp.s certificate of incorporation contains provisions related to corporate opportunities that may be of interest to both the Company and New Viacom. CBS Corp.s certificate of incorporation provides that in the event that a director, officer or controlling stockholder of the Company who is also a director, officer or controlling stockholder of New Viacom acquires knowledge of a potential corporate opportunity for both the Company and New Viacom, such director, officer or controlling stockholder may present such opportunity to the Company or New Viacom or both, as such director, officer or controlling stockholder deems appropriate in his or her sole discretion, and that by doing so such person will have satisfied his or her fiduciary duties to the Company and its stockholders. In addition, CBS Corp.s certificate of incorporation provides that it renounces any interest in any such opportunity presented to New Viacom. These provisions create the possibility that a corporate opportunity of one of such companies may be used for the benefit of the other company. CBS Corp. May Not Enjoy All of the Benefits of Scale that Former Viacom Achieved with All of Its Businesses Under the Same Corporate Structure Prior to the Separation, Former Viacom businesses shared benefits of scope and scale in costs, human capital, vendor relationships and customer relationships. While the Company and New Viacom entered into agreements that will govern a number of their commercial and other relationships after the Separation, those arrangements do not fully capture the benefits the businesses enjoyed as a result of common ownership prior to the Separation. The loss of these benefits as a consequence of the Separation could have an adverse effect on the Companys businesses, results of operations and financial condition following the Separation. CBS Corp. Has a New Operating Structure and New Management The separation of Former Viacom into two publicly traded companies involved the division of Former Viacoms businesses. In connection with the Separation, many jointly held assets and operating systems as well as personnel have been allocated between the companies, in particular at Paramount and in Former Viacoms corporate offices, and new related party agreements have been entered into to govern the ongoing business relationships between the companies following the Separation. The Company has a senior corporate staff that includes several executives who were hired relatively recently or who recently assumed all or a substantial part of their current responsibilities. There can therefore be no assurance that the Company will be successful under these conditions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 2. Properties. The Company maintains its world headquarters at 51 West 52nd Street, New York, New York, where it owns a building containing approximately 900,000 square feet of office space, of which approximately 240,000 square feet is occupied by the Company, with the balance being leased to third parties. The Company owns the CBS Broadcast Center complex located on approximately 3.7 acres at 524 West 57th Street, New York, New York, which consists of approximately 860,000 square feet of office and studio space. The Company also owns two studio facilities in California: (a) the CBS Studio Center at 4024 Radford Avenue, Studio City, California, located on approximately 40 acres, and (b) CBS Television City at 7800 Beverly Boulevard, Los Angeles, California, located on approximately 25 acres. In connection with I 37 the Separation, the Company leases or subleases from New Viacom subsidiaries the following facilities for certain of its operating divisions: (a) office space at 1515 Broadway, New York, New York, (b) office space at 1633 Broadway, New York, New York and (c) office and tape storage space at the Paramount Pictures Studio, 5555 Melrose Avenue, Los Angeles, California. Simon & Schuster leases approximately 237,000 square feet of office space at 1230 Avenue of the Americas, New York, New York, which lease runs to 2009. Paramount Parks operations in the U.S. include approximately 1,950 acres owned and 108 acres leased and in Canada include approximately 380 acres owned. The Company and its subsidiaries also own and lease office, studio and warehouse space, broadcast, antenna and satellite transmission facilities and outdoor advertising properties throughout the U.S., Canada and several countries around the world for its businesses. The Company considers its properties adequate for its present needs. Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Shareholder Derivative Lawsuits and Demands. Two shareholder derivative lawsuits, consolidated as In re Viacom Shareholders Derivative Litigation, were filed in July 2005 in New York State Supreme Court relating to executive compensation and alleged corporate waste. The actions name each member of Former Viacoms Board of Directors, Messrs. Tom Freston and Leslie Moonves (each of whom were executive officers of Former Viacom), and, as a nominal defendant, Former Viacom, alleging that the 2004 compensation of Messrs. Redstone, Freston, and Moonves was excessive and unwarranted and challenging the independence of certain Former Viacom directors. Mr. Redstone is the Companys Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors and Founder and Mr. Moonves is the Companys President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Freston is New Viacoms President and Chief Executive Officer. Plaintiffs seek unspecified damages from the members of the Former Viacom Board of Directors for their alleged breach of fiduciary duties, disgorgement of the 2004 compensation paid to the officers of Former Viacom, equitable relief, and attorney fees and expenses. The Company moved to dismiss the complaints and oral argument was heard on February 16, 2006. No decision has been issued by the court. Any liabilities in this matter adverse to the Company and or New Viacom will be shared equally between the Company and New Viacom. The Company believes that the plaintiffs positions in these actions are without merit and it intends to vigorously defend itself in the litigation. The Company has received shareholder demands seeking access to books and records of the Company relating to executive compensation paid to Sumner M. Redstone, Tom Freston and Leslie Moonves, accompanied by statements that such demands are in furtherance of an investigation of possible mismanagement, self dealing and corporate waste by directors and officers of Former Viacom. Another shareholder demand seeking access to books and records relates to the compensation of Sumner M. Redstone and Mel Karmazin (former Chief Operating Officer of Former Viacom). One of the demands also seeks access to books and records of the Company relating to Sumner M. Redstones acquisition of a controlling interest in Midway Games Inc. The Company intends to comply with all reasonable requests. Under the Separation Agreement between the Company and New Viacom, liabilities in connection with executive compensation claims relating to officers of Former Viacom are shared equally by the Company and New Viacom. Claims Related to Former Businesses: Asbestos, Environmental and Other. The Company is a defendant in lawsuits claiming various personal injuries related to asbestos and other materials, which allegedly occurred principally as a result of exposure caused by various products manufactured by Westinghouse, a predecessor, generally prior to the early 1970s. Westinghouse was neither a producer nor a manufacturer of asbestos. The Company is typically named as one of a large number of defendants in both state and federal cases. In the majority of asbestos lawsuits, the plaintiffs have not identified which of the Companys products is the basis of a claim. Claims against the Company in which a product has been identified principally relate to exposures allegedly caused by asbestos containing insulating material in turbines sold for power generation, industrial and marine use, or by asbestos containing grades of decorative micarta, a laminate used in commercial ships. I 38 Claims are frequently filed and or settled in large groups, which may make the amount and timing of settlements, and the number of pending claims, subject to significant fluctuation from period to period. The Company does not report as pending those claims on inactive, stayed, deferred or similar dockets which some jurisdictions have established for claimants who allege minimal or no impairment. As of December 31, 2005, the Company had pending approximately 101,170 asbestos claims, as compared with approximately 112,140 as of December 31, 2004 and approximately 112,280 as of December 31, 2003. Of the claims pending as of December 31, 2005, approximately 70,910 were pending in state courts, 27,640 in federal courts and approximately 2,620 were third party claims. During 2005, the Company received approximately 11,470 new claims and closed or moved to an inactive docket approximately 22,440 claims. The Company reports claims as closed when it becomes aware that a dismissal order has been entered by a court or when the Company has reached agreement with the claimants on the material terms of a settlement. Settlement costs depend on the seriousness of the injuries that form the basis of the claim, the quality of evidence supporting the claims and other factors. To date, the Company has not been liable for any third party claims. The Companys total costs for the years 2005 and 2004 for settlement and defense of asbestos claims after insurance recoveries and net of tax benefits were approximately $37.2 million and $58.4 million, respectively. The Companys costs for settlement and defense of asbestos claims may vary year to year as insurance proceeds are not always recovered in the same period as the insured portion of the expenses. Filings include claims for individuals suffering from mesothelioma, a rare cancer, the risk of which is allegedly increased primarily by exposure to asbestos; lung cancer, a cancer which may be caused by various factors, one of which is alleged to be asbestos exposure; other cancers, and conditions that are substantially less serious, including claims brought on behalf of individuals who are asymptomatic as to an allegedly asbestos related disease. Claims identified as cancer remain a small percentage of asbestos claims pending at December 31, 2005. In a substantial number of the pending claims, the plaintiff has not yet identified the claimed injury. The Company believes that its reserves and insurance are adequate to cover its asbestos liabilities. The Company from time to time receives claims from federal and state environmental regulatory agencies and other entities asserting that it is or may be liable for environmental cleanup costs and related damages principally relating to historical and predecessor operations of the Company. In addition, the Company from time to time receives personal injury claims including toxic tort and product liability claims (other than asbestos) arising from historical operations of the Company and its predecessors. On an ongoing basis, the Company defends itself in a multitude of lawsuits and proceedings and responds to various investigations and inquiries from federal, state and local authorities (collectively, "litigation"). Litigation is inherently uncertain and always difficult to predict. However, based on its understanding and evaluation of the relevant facts and circumstances, the Company believes that the above described legal matters and other litigation to which it is a party are not likely, in the aggregate, to have a material adverse effect on its results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Under the Separation Agreement between the Company and New Viacom, New Viacom has agreed to defend and indemnify CBS Corp. in certain litigation in which CBS Corp. is named. Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders. None. I 39  EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY Set forth below is certain information concerning the executive officers of the Company as of March 10, 2006. Name Age Title Sumner M. Redstone 82 Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors and Founder Leslie Moonves 56 President and Chief Executive Officer and Director Anthony G. Ambrosio 45 Executive Vice President, Human Resources and Administration Louis J. Briskman 57 Executive Vice President and General Counsel Carl D. Folta 48 Executive Vice President, Office of the Chairman Martin D. Franks 55 Executive Vice President, Planning, Policy and Government Relations Susan C. Gordon 52 Senior Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer Joseph R. Ianniello 38 Senior Vice President, Finance and Treasurer Richard M. Jones 40 Senior Vice President and General Tax Counsel Fredric G. Reynolds 55 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Gil Schwartz 54 Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications Martin M. Shea 62 Executive Vice President, Investor Relations Angeline C. Straka 60 Senior Vice President, Deputy General Counsel and Secretary None of the executive officers of the Company is related to any other executive officer or director by blood, marriage or adoption except that Shari Redstone, Vice Chair of the Board of Directors of the Company, is the daughter of Sumner M. Redstone. Mr. Redstone is the Companys Founder and has been Executive Chairman of the Board of the Company since the Separation. He was Chairman of the Board of Former Viacom from 1987 until the Separation and Chief Executive Officer of Former Viacom since 1996 through 2005. Mr. Redstone has also served as Chairman of the Board of NAI since 1986 and Chief Executive Officer of NAI since 1967. He served as President of NAI from 1967 through 1999. Mr. Redstone served as the first Chairman of the Board of the National Association of Theatre Owners and is currently a member of its Board, Emeritus. Mr. Redstone has been a frequent lecturer at universities, including Harvard Law School, and was formerly a visiting professor of Brandeis University. Mr. Redstone graduated from Harvard University in 1944 and received a LL.B. from Harvard University School of Law in 1947. Upon graduation, Mr. Redstone served as Law Secretary with the United States Court of Appeals and then as a Special Assistant to the United States Attorney General. Mr. Redstone served in the Military Intelligence Division during World War II. While a student at Harvard, he was selected to join a special intelligence group whose mission was to break Japans high level military and diplomatic codes. Mr. Redstone received, among other honors, two commendations from the Military Intelligence Division in recognition of his service, contribution and devotion to duty. He is also a recipient of the Army Commendation Award. Mr. Redstone also serves as Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors of New Viacom. Mr. Moonves has been President and Chief Executive Officer and a Director of the Company since the Separation. Previously, Mr. Moonves served as Co President and Co Chief Operating Officer of Former Viacom since June 2004. Prior to that, Mr. Moonves served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of CBS since 2003 and as its President and Chief Executive Officer since 1998. Mr. Moonves joined former CBS Corporation in 1995 as President, CBS Entertainment. Prior to that, Mr. Moonves was President of Warner Bros. Television since July 1993. Mr. Ambrosio has been Executive Vice President, Human Resources and Administration of the Company since the Separation. Previously, he served as Co Executive Vice President, Human Resources of the Company since September 2005 and as Senior Vice President, Human Resources and Administration of the CBS, Infinity and Viacom Outdoor businesses since 2000. Prior to that, Mr. Ambrosio served as Vice President, Corporate Human Resources of the former CBS Corporation from 1999 to 2000, as Vice President, Benefits of the former CBS Corporation from 1995 to November 1999 and as Director, I 40 Personnel of the former CBS Corporation in 1995. He joined the former CBS Corporation in 1985 and held various positions in the human resources area since that time. Mr. Briskman has been Executive Vice President and General Counsel of the Company since the Separation. Previously, since September 2005, he served as Executive Vice President and General Counsel of the businesses that comprise the Company after the Separation. Prior to that, Mr. Briskman served as Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Aetna Inc. since April 2004 and as Executive Vice President and General Counsel for CBS Television from 2000 to 2002. From 1993 to 2000, Mr. Briskman served as General Counsel of the former CBS Corporation and its predecessor, Westinghouse Electric Corporation. He joined Westinghouse Electric Corporation in 1975 and became its General Counsel in 1993 after serving as General Counsel of its Group W division beginning in 1983. Mr. Folta has been Executive Vice President, Office of the Chairman of the Company since the Separation. Previously, he served as Executive Vice President, Corporate Relations of Former Viacom since November 2004. Prior to that, he served as Senior Vice President, Corporate Relations of Former Viacom from November 1994 to November 2004, and Vice President, Corporate Relations of Former Viacom from April 1994 to November 1994. Mr. Folta held various communications positions at Paramount Communications Inc. from 1984 until joining Former Viacom in April 1994. Mr. Folta also serves as Executive Vice President, Office of the Chairman of New Viacom. Mr. Franks has been Executive Vice President, Planning, Policy and Government Relations of the Company since the Separation. Previously, he served as Executive Vice President, CBS Television since 2000 and was also Senior Vice President of Former Viacom from 2000 to 2005. Prior to that, Mr. Franks served as Senior Vice President of the former CBS Corporation from 1997 to 2000, as Senior Vice President, Washington of the former CBS Corporation from 1994 to 1997, and as Vice President, Washington of the former CBS Corporation from 1988 to 1994. Ms. Gordon has been Senior Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of the Company since the Separation. Prior to that, she served as Senior Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of Former Viacom from May 2002 until the Separation, as Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer from April 1995 to May 2002 and as Vice President, Internal Audit of Former Viacom from October 1986 to April 1995. Ms. Gordon served as Controller of Viacom Broadcasting from June 1985 to October 1986. Ms. Gordon joined Former Viacom in 1981. Mr. Ianniello has been Senior Vice President, Finance and Treasurer of the Company since the Separation. Prior to that, he served as Senior Vice President and Treasurer of Former Viacom since July 2005, as Vice President, Corporate Development of Former Viacom from 2000 to 2005 and as Director, Financial Planning of the former CBS Corporation from 1997 to 2000. Mr. Jones has been Senior Vice President and General Tax Counsel of the Company since the Separation and for Former Viacom in December 2005. Previously, he served as Vice President of Tax, Assistant Treasurer and Tax Counsel for NBC Universal, Inc. since 2003. Prior to that, he spent 13 years with Ernst & Young in their media & entertainment and transaction advisory services practices. Mr. Jones also served honorably as a non commissioned officer in the U.S. Armys 75th Ranger Regiment. Mr. Reynolds has been Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company since the Separation. Previously, Mr. Reynolds served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the businesses that comprise the Company after the Separation and President of the CBS Television Stations Group since 2001. Prior to that, Mr. Reynolds served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Former Viacom from 2000 to 2001 and served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the former CBS Corporation and its predecessor, Westinghouse Electric Corporation, from 1994 to 2000. Mr. Reynolds was Chief Financial Officer of CBS Inc. from April 1996 to 1997. Mr. Schwartz has been Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications of the Company since the Separation. Previously, he was Executive Vice President of CBS Communications Group, which served I 41 the Companys broadcast and local television, syndication, radio and outdoor operations, among others, from 2004 until the Separation. He was Senior Vice President, Communications of CBS from 2000 to 2004, and Senior Vice President, Communications of the former CBS Corporation from 1996 to 2000. Mr. Schwartz served as Vice President, Corporate Communications of Westinghouse Broadcasting from 1995 to 1996. Prior to that, Mr. Schwartz served as Vice President, Communications for Westinghouse Broadcastings Group W Television Stations from 1989 to 1995. Mr. Schwartz joined Westinghouse Broadcasting in 1981. Mr. Shea has been Executive Vice President, Investor Relations of the Company since the Separation and for Former Viacom since November 2004. Prior to that, he served as Senior Vice President, Investor Relations of Former Viacom since January 1998. Mr. Shea was Senior Vice President, Corporation Communications for Triarc Companies, Inc. from July 1994 to May 1995 and from November 1995 to December 1997. He served as Managing Director of Edelman Worldwide from June 1995 through October 1995. Mr. Shea held various Investor Relations positions at Paramount Communications Inc., serving most recently as Vice President, Investor Relations from 1977 until July 1994. Ms. Straka has been Senior Vice President, Deputy General Counsel and Secretary of the Company since the Separation. Prior to that, Ms. Straka served as Vice President and Associate General Counsel and Co Head of the Corporate, Transactions and Securities practice group in the corporate law department of Former Viacom. She also served as an Assistant Secretary of Former Viacom, assisting the General Counsel with respect to Board of Director matters. Prior to joining the Former Viacom corporate law department in February 2001, Ms. Straka served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Infinity Broadcasting Corporation, then a majority owned public subsidiary of Former Viacom, from May 2000. Ms. Straka was Vice President, Deputy General Counsel and Secretary of the former CBS Corporation since 1992 and up to the time of the May 2000 merger of Former Viacom and the former CBS Corporation. I 42   Part II Item 5. Market for CBS Corporations Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Purchases of Equity Securities. The separation of former Viacom Inc. ("Former Viacom") into two publicly traded entities, CBS Corporation (together with its consolidated subsidiaries unless the context otherwise requires, the "Company" or "CBS Corp.") and new Viacom Inc. ("New Viacom") was completed on December 31, 2005 (the "Separation"). The Separation was accomplished pursuant to a merger in which a subsidiary of Former Viacom was merged with and into Former Viacom, with Former Viacom continuing as the surviving entity. On December 31, 2005, Former Viacom was renamed "CBS Corporation" and each outstanding share of Former Viacom class A common stock was converted into the right to receive .5 of a share of CBS Corporation class A common stock, $0.001 par value ("Class A Common Stock"), and .5 of a share of New Viacom class A common stock and each outstanding share of Former Viacom class B common stock was converted into the right to receive .5 of a share of CBS corporation class B common stock, $0.001 par value ("Class B Common Stock"), and .5 of a share of New Viacom class B common stock. As a result of the one share for .5 share conversion ("Share Conversion"), all Former Viacom share and per share data have been adjusted for all periods presented, unless otherwise indicated. Shares of the CBS Corp. Class A and Class B Common Stock commenced trading on the New York Stock Exchange on January 3, 2006, under the symbols: "CBS.A" (CBS Corporation Class A Common Stock) and "CBS" (CBS Corporation Class B Common Stock). There was no established trading market for CBS Corp. Class A and Class B Common Stock prior to its commencement of trading on January 3, 2006. On January 25, 2006, CBS Corporation declared a quarterly cash dividend of $.16 per share payable on April 1, 2006. CBS Corp. currently expects to continue to pay a regular cash dividend to its stockholders. Based on the number of shares of CBS Corp. Class A and Class B Common Stock outstanding after the Separation, a $.16 per share quarterly dividend for each of the four quarters of 2006 would result in approximately $480 million of annual dividends. Former Viacom declared a quarterly cash dividend on its common stock during each of the four quarters of 2005 and 2004 for a total of $440.9 million in 2005 and $427.0 million in 2004. As of March 1, 2006, there were approximately 1,000 record holders of CBS Corp. Class A Common Stock and approximately 18,880 record holders of CBS Corp. Class B Common Stock. These numbers do not include holders of Former Viacom common stock who had not exchanged as of March 1, 2006 shares of Former Viacom for shares of CBS Corp. Information required by this item is also contained in the CBS Corp. Proxy Statement for the Companys 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders under the heading "Equity Compensation Plan Information", which information is incorporated herein by reference. II 1 Below is a summary of Former Viacom purchases of its class B common stock during the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2005 under its $8.0 billion stock purchase program publicly announced on October 28, 2004. Since inception of this program the Company has spent $7.42 billion, leaving $579.8 million remaining authorization under the program. CBS Corp. does not currently expect to make purchases under this stock purchase program during 2006. (In millions, except per share amounts) Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price per Share Total Cost of Purchase Remaining Authorization Share and per share amounts not adjusted for the Share Conversion January 1, 2005 September 30, 2005 102.1 $ 35.12 $ 3,587.1 $ 2,448.9 October 1, 2005 October 31, 2005 14.9 $ 31.26 $ 465.7 $ 1,983.2 November 1, 2005 November 30, 2005 32.1 $ 32.86 $ 1,054.7 $ 928.5 December 1, 2005 December 31, 2005 10.1 $ 34.48 $ 348.7 $ 579.8 Fourth Quarter 2005 57.1 $ 32.73 $ 1,869.1 $ 579.8 Full Year 2005 159.2 $ 34.26 $ 5,456.2 $ 579.8 II 2 Item 6. Selected Financial Data. CBS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES (In millions, except per share amounts) Year Ended December 31,(a) 2005(b) 2004(b)(c) 2003 2002(d) 2001 Revenues $ 14,536.4 $ 14,547.3 $ 13,554.5 $ 13,163.4 $ 12,950.4 Operating income (loss) $ (6,817.9 ) $ (15,154.5 ) $ 2,511.3 $ 2,578.6 $ 790.2 Net earnings (loss) from continuing operations before cumulative effect of accounting changes $ (8,321.8 ) $ (16,391.9 ) $ 1,116.9 $ 1,088.0 $ (330.6 ) Net earnings from discontinued operations $ 1,232.7 $ 242.1 $ 318.5 $ 1,118.6 $ 107.1 Net earnings (loss) before cumulative effect of accounting changes $ (7,089.1 ) $ (16,149.8 ) $ 1,435.4 $ 2,206.6 $ (223.5 ) Net earnings (loss) $ (7,089.1 ) $ (17,462.2 ) $ 1,416.9 $ 725.7 $ (223.5 ) Basic earnings (loss) per common share: Net earnings(loss) from continuing operations before cumulative effect of accounting changes $ (10.54 ) $ (19.12 ) $ 1.28 $ 1.24 $ (.38 ) Net earnings from discontinued operations $ 1.56 $ .28 $ .37 $ 1.28 $ .12 Net earnings (loss) before cumulative effect of accounting changes $ (8.98 ) $ (18.84 ) $ 1.65 $ 2.52 $ (.26 ) Net earnings (loss) $ (8.98 ) $ (20.37 ) $ 1.62 $ .83 $ (.26 ) Diluted earnings (loss) per common share: Net earnings (loss) from continuing operations before cumulative effect of accounting changes $ (10.54 ) $ (19.12 ) $ 1.27 $ 1.23 $ (.38 ) Net earnings from discontinued operations $ 1.56 $ .28 $ .36 $ 1.26 $ .12 Net earnings (loss) before cumulative effect of accounting changes $ (8.98 ) $ (18.84 ) $ 1.63 $ 2.49 $ (.26 ) Net earnings (loss) $ (8.98 ) $ (20.37 ) $ 1.61 $ .82 $ (.26 ) Dividends per common share $ ..56 $ ..50 $ ..24 At Year End: Total assets: Continuing operations $ 42,827.4 $ 50,154.5 $ 67,943.3 $ 68,366.1 $ 68,044.4 Discontinued operations $ 202.2 $ 17,847.8 $ 22,282.2 $ 22,130.8 $ 23,299.3 Total assets $ 43,029.6 $ 68,002.3 $ 90,225.5 $ 90,496.9 $ 91,343.7 Total debt: Continuing operations $ 7,900.3 $ 9,363.6 $ 9,451.2 $ 9,665.0 $ 10,141.4 Discontinued operations $ 153.2 $ 553.4 $ 630.0 $ 940.9 $ 1,334.2 Total stockholders equity $ 21,737.0 $ 42,024.3 $ 63,205.0 $ 62,487.8 $ 62,716.8 (a) On December 31, 2005, the separation of former Viacom Inc. ("Former Viacom") into two publicly traded entities, CBS Corporation (the "Company" or "CBS Corp.") and new Viacom Inc. ("New Viacom") was completed ("the Separation"). Each outstanding share of Former Viacom common stock was converted into .5 of a share of CBS Corp. Common Stock and ..5 of a share of New Viacom common stock and as a result, all share and per share data of Former Viacom have been adjusted for all periods presented. CBS Corp. has accounted for the Separation as a spin off of New Viacom and accordingly, the results of New Viacom have been presented as discontinued operations in the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements for all periods presented. Included within New Viacoms results were discontinued operations for Famous Players and Blockbuster Inc. ("Blockbuster"). Famous Players, a Canadian based theater chain, was sold for approximately $400 million in July 2005. Blockbuster was split off from Former Viacom in 2004. (b) In 2005, as a result of the Companys annual goodwill impairment test performed in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" ("SFAS 142"), a non cash charge of $9.48 billion ($9.46 billion, net of tax), or $11.98 per diluted share, was recorded to reduce the carrying amount of Television and Radio goodwill to their respective estimated fair values. In 2004, as a result of the Companys annual goodwill impairment test, a non cash charge of $18.0 billion ($17.89 billion, net of tax), or $20.87 per diluted share, was recorded to reduce the carrying amount of Radio and Outdoor goodwill and intangible assets to their respective estimated fair values. (c) In 2004, as a result of the initial adoption of Emerging Issues Task Force Topic No. D 108 "Use of Residual Method to Value Acquired Assets Other than Goodwill", the Company recorded an after tax charge of $1.31 billion, or $1.53 per diluted share, as a cumulative effect of accounting change, to reduce the intangible assets balance attributable to television stations FCC licenses. (d) In 2002, the initial adoption of SFAS 142 resulted in an after tax non cash charge of $1.48 billion, recorded as a cumulative effect of accounting change. II 3 Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions) Managements discussion and analysis of the results of operations and financial condition should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes. Descriptions of all documents incorporated by reference herein or included as exhibits hereto are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of such documents so incorporated or included. Please see Item 1A. Risk Factors in Part I of this report for the Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward Looking Statements and Risk Factors. Separation The separation of former Viacom Inc. ("Former Viacom") into two publicly traded entities, CBS Corporation (together with its consolidated subsidiaries unless the context otherwise requires, the "Company" or "CBS Corp.") and new Viacom Inc. ("New Viacom") was completed on December 31, 2005 (the "Separation"). The Separation was accomplished pursuant to a merger in which a subsidiary of Former Viacom was merged with and into Former Viacom, with Former Viacom continuing as the surviving entity. On December 31, 2005, Former Viacom was renamed "CBS Corporation" and each outstanding share of Former Viacom class A common stock was converted into the right to receive .5 of a share of CBS Corp. class A common stock, $0.001 par value ("Class A Common Stock"), and .5 of a share of New Viacom class A common stock and each outstanding share of Former Viacom class B common stock was converted into the right to receive .5 of a share of CBS Corp. class B common stock, $0.001 par value ("Class B Common Stock"), and .5 of a share of New Viacom class B common stock. As a result of the one share for .5 share conversion ("Share Conversion"), all Former Viacom share and per share data have been adjusted for all periods presented, unless otherwise indicated. The Companys Registration Statement on Form S 4 which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") on November 23, 2005 and was subsequently declared effective by the SEC further describes the Separation. In connection with the Separation, CBS Corp. and New Viacom entered into a separation agreement dated December 19, 2005, which is filed as an exhibit to this report (the "Separation Agreement"). In accordance with the terms of the Separation Agreement, New Viacom paid to the Company an estimated special dividend of $5.4 billion. Pursuant to the provisions of the Separation Agreement, the estimated special dividend is subject to adjustment. On March 14, 2006, the Company submitted to New Viacom an adjustment to increase the estimated special dividend in the amount of approximately $460 million. The Company and New Viacom have up to 65 days to agree upon the adjustment before any disputed amounts would become subject to a dispute resolution process. The Company and New Viacom entered into other agreements to govern certain of the ongoing relationships between the Company and New Viacom after the Separation including a transition services agreement and a tax matters agreement dated December 30, 2005, which is filed as an exhibit to this report (the "Tax Matters Agreement"). These arrangements are summarized in the "Related Parties" section of this report. Overview CBS Corp. is comprised of the following segments: Television (CBS Television Network, UPN, Showtime Networks, CBS Television Stations, CBS Paramount Television and King World), Radio (CBS Radio), Outdoor (CBS Outdoor) and Parks/Publishing (Paramount Parks and Simon & Schuster). CBS Corp. has accounted for the Separation as a spin off of New Viacom and accordingly, the results of New Viacom have been reflected as discontinued operations in the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements for all periods presented. New Viacom is comprised of the Cable Networks and Entertainment segments. Included within New Viacoms results were discontinued operations for Famous Players and Blockbuster Inc. ("Blockbuster"). Famous Players, a Canadian based theater chain, was sold for approximately $400 million in July 2005. Blockbuster was split off from Former Viacom in 2004. II 4   Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) CBS Corp. revenues for 2005 decreased slightly to $14.54 billion in 2005 versus $14.55 billion in 2004. Revenues reflected advertising revenue growth of $235.1 million, or 2%, led by growth of 2% in Television and 4% in Outdoor offset by a decline in television license fees. CBS Corp. reported an operating loss of $6.82 billion in 2005 versus an operating loss of $15.15 billion in 2004. Full year 2005 net loss from continuing operations was $8.32 billion, or a loss of $10.54 per diluted share, compared with a net loss from continuing operations of $16.39 billion, or a loss of $19.12 per diluted share, for 2004. Full year 2005 results included a non cash impairment charge of $9.48 billion, ($9.46 billion, net of tax or $11.98 per diluted share), to reduce the carrying amount of Television and Radio goodwill to their respective estimated fair values. Full year 2004 results included a non cash impairment charge of $18.0 billion, ($17.89 billion, net of tax or $20.87 per diluted share), to reduce the carrying amount of Radio and Outdoor goodwill and intangible assets to their respective estimated fair value. CBS Corp. operates in the following segments: TELEVISION: The Television segment consists of the CBS and UPN television networks, the Companys 39 owned broadcast television stations, Showtime Networks, and its television production and syndication business, including CBS Paramount Television and King World Productions. Television revenues are generated primarily from advertising sales, television license fees and affiliate fees. Television contributed 64%, 65% and 64%, respectively, to consolidated revenues for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. In January 2006, the Company completed its acquisition of CSTV Networks, Inc., ("CSTV") for approximately $325 million. Beginning in the first quarter of 2006, CSTVs results will be included as part of the Television segment. RADIO: The Radio segment owns and operates 179 radio stations in 40 U.S. markets through CBS Radio. Radio revenues are generated primarily from advertising sales. Radio contributed 15%, 14% and 15%, respectively, to consolidated revenues for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. OUTDOOR: The Outdoor segment, principally through CBS Outdoor, displays advertising on media including billboards, transit shelters, buses, rail systems (in car, station platforms and terminals), mall kiosks, masts and stadium signage. Outdoor revenues are generated primarily from advertising sales. Outdoor contributed 13% to consolidated revenues for each of the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. PARKS/PUBLISHING: This all other category includes Simon & Schusters consumer book publishing business with imprints such as Simon & Schuster, Pocket Books, Scribner and Free Press. Parks is principally engaged in the ownership and operation of five theme parks and a themed attraction in the U.S. and Canada. Parks/Publishing contributed 8% to consolidated revenues for each of the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. In January 2006, the Company announced its intention to divest Paramount Parks and to complete the divestiture in the second half of 2006. II 5 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Consolidated Results of Operations 2005 vs. 2004 and 2004 vs. 2003 Revenues The tables below present the Companys consolidated revenues by type, net of intercompany eliminations, for each of the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. Revenues by Type Year Ended December 31, 2005 2004 Increase/(Decrease) 2005 vs. 2004 2003 Increase/(Decrease) 2004 vs. 2003 Advertising sales $ 10,415.7 $ 10,180.6 $ 235.1 2 % $ 9,403.7 $ 776.9 8 % Television license fees 1,277.2 1,622.1 (344.9 ) (21 ) 1,583.0 39.1 2 Affiliate fees 992.1 968.5 23.6 2 959.3 9.2 1 Publishing 763.6 750.9 12.7 2 693.5 57.4 8 Parks operations 423.5 409.9 13.6 3 375.8 34.1 9 Other 664.3 615.3 49.0 8 539.2 76.1 14 Total Revenues $ 14,536.4 $ 14,547.3 $ (10.9 ) % $ 13,554.5 $ 992.8 7 % Year Ended December 31, Percentage of Revenues by Type 2005 2004 2003 Advertising sales 72 % 70 % 69 % Television license fees 9 11 12 Affiliate fees 7 7 7 Publishing 5 5 5 Parks operations 3 3 3 Other 4 4 4 Total 100 % 100 % 100 % Advertising sales increased 2% in 2005 to $10.42 billion from $10.18 billion in 2004 reflecting growth in the Television, Outdoor and Radio segments. Televisions advertising increased 2% reflecting the strength in CBS/UPN primetime partially offset by the prior year telecast of the Super Bowl on CBS Network and lower political advertising. Outdoor advertising increased 4% reflecting a 6% increase in revenues from North American properties. Radio advertising increased 1% reflecting growth in local advertising. In 2004, advertising sales increased 8% to $10.18 billion from $9.40 billion in 2003 reflecting growth in Television, benefiting from the telecast of the Super Bowl on CBS Network and higher political advertising, and in Outdoor. Television license fees decreased 21% to $1.28 billion in 2005 from $1.62 billion in 2004 principally reflecting the absence of revenues from the prior year basic cable availability of Star Trek: Deep Space Nine and the absence of license fees for Frasier, which is no longer in production. Television license fees increased 2% to $1.62 billion in 2004 from $1.58 billion in 2003 principally relating to the mix of shows available for syndication, partially offset by lower network revenues for shows no longer in production. Affiliate fees increased 2% to $992.1 million in 2005 from $968.5 million in 2004 driven by rate increases and subscriber growth at Showtime Networks. Affiliate fees increased 1% to $968.5 million in 2004 from $959.3 million in 2003. Publishing revenues increased 2% to $763.6 million in 2005 and increased 8% to $750.9 million in 2004 versus the comparable prior year periods. The increases were primarily driven by the success of top selling titles. II 6 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Parks operations revenues increased 3% to $423.5 million in 2005 from $409.9 million in 2004 primarily due to increased attendance and higher average per capita spending. Parks operations revenues increased 9% to $409.9 million in 2004 from $375.8 million in 2003 due to increased attendance and the benefit of favorable foreign currency translation, partially offset by decreased average per capita spending. Other revenues, which include home entertainment revenues from television and cable product sales, and royalties and fees, increased 8% to $664.3 million in 2005 from $615.3 million in 2004 primarily reflecting growth in home entertainment revenues of $29.6 million from the mix of available DVD releases and other revenues from acquired companies. For 2004, other revenues increased 14% to $615.3 million from $539.2 million in 2003 primarily reflecting growth in home entertainment revenues of $73.9 million due to the availability of DVD releases. International Revenues The Company generated approximately 12% of its total revenues from international regions in 2005, and 11% in 2004 and 2003. Year Ended December 31, 2005 Percentage of Total 2004 Percentage of Total 2003 Percentage of Total United Kingdom $ 491.2 28 % $ 459.9 28 % $ 255.6 18 % Other Europe 666.8 39 605.7 38 667.9 46 Canada 376.6 22 345.9 21 259.5 18 All other 196.9 11 206.2 13 266.5 18 Total International Revenues $ 1,731.5 100 % $ 1,617.7 100 % $ 1,449.5 100 % Operating Expenses The table below presents the Companys consolidated operating expenses by type: Operating Expenses by Type Year Ended December 31, 2005 2004 Increase/ (Decrease) 2005 vs. 2004 2003 Increase/ (Decrease) 2004 vs. 2003 Programming $ 3,453.2 $ 3,441.8 $ 11.4 % $ 3,080.3 $ 361.5 12% Production 2,453.5 2,584.7 (131.2 ) (5 ) 2,661.9 (77.2 ) (3) Outdoor operations 1,134.2 1,102.7 31.5 3 1,012.6 90.1 9 Publishing operations 525.0 517.6 7.4 1 486.3 31.3 6 Parks operations 243.8 232.7 11.1 5 212.2 20.5 10 Other 862.1 764.1 98.0 13 712.1 52.0 7 Total Operating Expenses $ 8,671.8 $ 8,643.6 $ 28.2 % $ 8,165.4 $ 478.2 6% For 2005, operating expenses of $8.67 billion increased slightly over $8.64 billion in 2004. For 2004, operating expenses of $8.64 billion increased 6% over $8.17 billion in 2003. The major components and changes in operating expenses were as follows: Programming expenses represented approximately 40% of total operating expenses in 2005 and 2004 and 38% in 2003, and reflect the amortization of acquired rights of programs exhibited on the broadcast and cable networks, and television and radio stations. Programming expenses increased slightly to $3.45 billion in 2005 from $3.44 billion in 2004 principally reflecting higher costs for Showtime Networks theatrical titles. Programming expenses II 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) increased 12% to $3.44 billion in 2004 from $3.08 billion in 2003 reflecting higher program rights expenses for sports events and primetime series at the broadcast networks. Production expenses represented approximately 28% of total operating expenses in 2005, 30% in 2004 and 33% in 2003, and reflect the cost and amortization of internally developed television programs, including direct production costs, residuals and participation expenses, and production overhead, as well as television and radio costs including on air talent and other production costs. Production expenses decreased 5% to $2.45 billion in 2005 from $2.58 billion in 2004 principally reflecting lower network costs due to the absence of Frasier partially offset by increased costs for new network series. Production expenses decreased 3% to $2.58 billion in 2004 from $2.66 billion in 2003 reflecting fewer network series produced in 2004 partially offset by higher news costs for political campaign coverage. Outdoor operations costs represented approximately 13% of total operating expenses in 2005 and 2004, and 12% in 2003, and reflect transit and billboard lease, maintenance, posting and rotation expenses. Outdoor operations expenses increased 3% to $1.13 billion in 2005 from $1.10 billion in 2004 principally reflecting higher billboard lease costs and maintenance costs associated with the impact of hurricanes in 2005. Outdoor operations costs increased 9% to $1.10 billion in 2004 from $1.01 billion in 2003 primarily reflecting higher transit and billboard lease costs. Publishing operations costs, which represented approximately 6% of total operating expenses in each of the years 2005, 2004 and 2003, reflect cost of book sales, royalties and other costs incurred with respect to publishing operations. Publishing operations expenses for 2005 increased 1% to $525.0 million and increased 6% to $517.6 million in 2004 from $486.3 million in 2003 primarily due to higher revenues. Parks operations costs, which represented approximately 3% of total operating expenses in each of the years 2005, 2004 and 2003, increased 5% to $243.8 million in 2005 from $232.7 million in 2004 principally reflecting the cost of fourth quarter 2005 winter events held at the parks and the impact of foreign currency translation. In 2004, Parks operations costs increased 10% to $232.7 million from $212.2 million in 2003 primarily from the impact of foreign currency translation. Other operating expenses, which represented approximately 10% of total operating expenses in 2005 and 9% in 2004 and 2003, primarily include distribution costs incurred with respect to television product, costs associated with digital media and compensation. Other operating expenses increased 13% to $862.1 million in 2005 from $764.1 million in 2004 primarily reflecting a 10% increase in distribution costs due to the DVD release of Charmed and increased costs associated with digital media from the inclusion of SportsLine.com, Inc. ("SportsLine.com") since its acquisition in December 2004. Other operating expenses for 2004 increased 7% to $764.1 million in 2004 from $712.1 million in 2003 principally reflecting 15% higher distribution costs due to additional volume of DVD releases of the Star Trek series and higher compensation. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") expenses which include expenses incurred for selling and marketing costs, occupancy and back office support, were approximately 19% of revenues for 2005 and 18% of revenues for 2004 and 2003. SG&A expenses increased $146.9 million, or 6%, to $2.70 billion in 2005 from $2.55 billion in 2004, primarily reflecting transition costs and professional fees related to the II 8 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Separation, higher employee compensation, advertising, marketing and incremental SG&A from SportsLine.com. Also included in 2005 and 2004 expenses are severance charges of $11.3 million and $28.1 million, respectively. Advertising expenses of $369.1 million, included in SG&A expenses, increased 3% reflecting increased spending primarily at Radio and Television. For 2004, SG&A expenses increased $176.4 million, or 7%, to $2.55 billion from $2.38 billion in 2003 reflecting higher employee compensation and commissions, 2004 severance charges of $28.1 million due to management changes and the absence of a 2003 pre tax gain of $40 million from the settlement of a physical damage and business interruption claim. Advertising expenses of $358.4 million, included in SG&A expenses, increased 8% reflecting increased spending primarily at Radio. Included within SG&A expenses are residual costs, which primarily include pension and postretirement benefit costs for benefit plans retained by the Company for previously divested businesses. Residual costs for 2005 increased to $118.7 million from $113.8 million in 2004 primarily due to a lower discount rate. Residual costs decreased to $113.8 million in 2004 from $146.5 million in 2003 principally due to the recognition of lower actuarial losses resulting from better than expected performance of plan assets in 2003. Impairment Charges SFAS 142 requires the Company to perform an annual fair value based impairment test of goodwill. The Company performed its annual impairment test as of October 31, 2005 concurrently with its annual budgeting process which begins in the fourth quarter each year. The first step of the test examines whether or not the book value of each of the Companys reporting units exceeds its fair value. If the book value for a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step of the test is required to compare the implied fair value of that reporting units goodwill with the book value of the goodwill. The Companys reporting units are generally consistent with or one level below the operating segments underlying the reportable segments. As a result of the 2005 annual impairment test, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $9.48 billion in the fourth quarter of 2005. The $9.48 billion reflects charges to reduce the carrying value of goodwill at the CBS Television reporting unit of $6.44 billion and the Radio reporting unit of $3.05 billion. During 2005, traded values decreased for both the television and radio broadcasting industries. Broadcast advertising spending is closely correlated to the U.S. economy, which has been negatively impacted by, among other things, higher interest rates and energy prices. In addition, a reduction in advertising spending in certain business sectors led to a reduction in forecasted cash flows and long term growth rates. As a result, the Company reduced its revenue, operating profit and cash flow projections for the CBS Television and Radio reporting units to reflect current market conditions. The estimated fair value of the CBS Television and Radio reporting units were computed principally based upon the present value of future cash flows (Discounted Cash Flow Method) and both the traded and transaction values of comparable businesses (Market Comparable Method). The Discounted Cash Flow Method and Market Comparable Method were weighted equally and resulted in substantially equal fair values. As a result of the annual impairment test performed for 2004, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $18.0 billion in the fourth quarter of 2004. The $18.0 billion reflects charges to reduce the carrying value of goodwill at the Radio reporting unit of $10.94 billion and the Outdoor reporting unit of $7.06 billion as well as a reduction of the carrying value of intangible assets of $27.8 million related to the FCC licenses at the Radio segment. Several factors led to a reduction in forecasted cash flows and long term growth rates for both the Radio and Outdoor reporting units. Radio and Outdoor both fell short of budgeted revenue and operating income growth targets in 2004. Competition from other advertising II 9 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) media, including Internet advertising and cable and broadcast television reduced Radio and Outdoor growth rates. Also, the emergence of new competitors and technologies necessitated a shift in managements strategy for the Radio and Outdoor businesses, including changes in composition of the sales force and operating management as well as increased levels of investment in marketing and promotion. Depreciation and Amortization For 2005, depreciation and amortization decreased 2% to $498.7 million from $508.6 million primarily reflecting lower depreciation expense for outdoor advertising properties. For 2004, depreciation and amortization increased 1% to $508.6 million from $501.7 million. Interest Expense For 2005, interest expense increased 4% to $720.5 million from $694.0 million primarily due to higher average bank debt and commercial paper borrowings, and higher interest rates partially offset by lower average fixed rate debt balances. For 2004, interest expense decreased 3% to $694.0 million from $716.1 million in 2003 primarily due to lower average debt balances in 2004, including commercial paper borrowings, and lower interest on programming contracts. Proceeds from the special cash dividend of $5.4 billion received from New Viacom were used to repay outstanding commercial paper, debt outstanding under revolving credit facilities and certain fixed rate debt upon maturity in January 2006. As a result of lower debt, interest expense is expected to decrease significantly in 2006 as compared with 2005. The Company had approximately $8.05 billion at December 31, 2005 and $9.92 billion at December 31, 2004 of principal amount of debt outstanding (including discontinued operations and current maturities) at weighted average interest rates of 6.9% and 6.7%, respectively. Interest Income For 2005, interest income decreased by $.4 million to $21.4 million. For 2004, interest income increased by $12.6 million to $21.8 million from $9.2 million primarily due to increased cash and cash equivalents. Other Items, Net For 2005, "Other items, net" of $5.3 million principally reflected a net gain of $86.2 million from the sale of investments and businesses, and foreign exchange gains of $10.9 million, partially offset by losses associated with securitizing trade receivables of $23.8 million and a non cash charge of $67.9 million to reflect other than temporary declines in the market value of certain radio investments. For 2004, "Other items, net" of $25.1 million principally reflected foreign exchange gains of $25.9 million and a net gain from the sale of investments and businesses of $32.5 million, partially offset by a non cash charge of $21.7 million associated with other than temporary declines in the Companys investments and losses associated with securitizing trade receivables of $11.6 million. For 2003, "Other items, net" of $21.4 million principally consisted of foreign exchange gains of $14.8 million, net gains from the sale of investments of $14.8 million and an insurance recoupment of $5.6 million partially offset by losses of $9.1 million associated with securitizing trade receivables and a non cash charge of approximately $5.0 million associated with other than temporary declines in the market value of several investments. II 10   Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Provision for Income Taxes The provision for income taxes represents federal, state and local, and foreign income taxes on earnings (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes, equity in earnings (loss) of affiliated companies, minority interest and cumulative effect of accounting changes. The annual effective tax rate was (10.8%) in 2005 versus (3.9%) in 2004 and 39.8% in 2003. Included in the 2005 and 2004 rates was the impact of the non cash impairment charges. Also included in the 2004 rate was the impact of severance charges and the recognition of a tax benefit from the resolution of certain income tax audits in 2004. Equity in Earnings (Loss) of Affiliated Companies, Net of Tax "Equity in earnings (loss) of affiliated companies, net of tax" reflected a net loss of $1.5 million for 2005, earnings of $19.2 million for 2004 and earnings of $18.3 million for 2003. For 2005, the loss principally reflected a non cash charge associated with an other than temporary decline in a radio investment partially offset by earnings from affiliated companies. For 2004 and 2003, results principally reflected positive results from affiliated companies, partially offset by losses from Internet investments. Minority Interest, Net of Tax Minority interest primarily represents the minority ownership of certain international entities. Net Earnings (Loss) from Continuing Operations before Cumulative Effect of Accounting Changes The Company reported net earnings (loss) from continuing operations before cumulative effect of accounting changes of $(8.32) billion in 2005 versus $(16.39) billion in 2004 and $1.12 billion in 2003. The loss in 2005 was driven by the non cash impairment charge for goodwill of $9.48 billion. The loss in 2004 was driven by the non cash impairment charge for goodwill and intangible assets of $18.0 billion. Net Earnings from Discontinued Operations The businesses of New Viacom have been presented as discontinued operations in CBS Corp.s consolidated financial statements for all periods presented. Included within New Viacoms results were discontinued operations for Famous Players and Blockbuster. Famous Players, a Canadian based theater chain, was sold for approximately $400 million in July 2005. Blockbuster was split off from Former Viacom in 2004. The following tables set forth the detail of CBS Corp.s net earnings from discontinued operations, which are comprised of both New Viacoms results from continuing operations and their discontinued businesses, Famous Players and Blockbuster. Additionally, Eliminations/Other include eliminations between CBS Corp. and New Viacom, and aircraft financing leases that are generally expected to liquidate in accordance with contractual terms. II 11 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Year Ended December 31, 2005 New Viacom Famous Players Eliminations/ Other Total Revenues from discontinued operations $ 9,609.6 $ 208.0 $ (328.5 ) $ 9,489.1 Earnings (loss) from discontinued operations $ 2,327.7 $ (25.1 ) $ 16.3 $ 2,318.9 Loss on disposal of discontinued operations (72.9 ) (72.9 ) Minority interest (6.6 ) (1.6 ) (8.2 ) 2,321.1 (99.6 ) 16.3 2,237.8 Income tax (provision) benefit, net of minority interest (1,017.2 ) 52.7 (40.6 ) (1,005.1 ) Net earnings (loss) from discontinued operations $ 1,303.9 $ (46.9 ) $ (24.3 ) $ 1,232.7 Year Ended December 31, 2004 New Viacom Blockbuster Famous Players Eliminations/ Other Total Revenues from discontinued operations $ 8,132.2 $ 4,528.9 $ 392.5 $ (535.6 ) $ 12,518.0 Earnings (loss) from discontinued operations $ 2,204.2 $ (1,404.2 ) $ (11.6 ) $ (86.0 ) $ 702.4 Loss on disposal of discontinued operations (38.2 ) (38.2 ) Minority interest (4.7 ) 259.7 (2.2 ) 252.8 2,199.5 (1,182.7 ) (13.8 ) (86.0 ) 917.0 Income tax (provision) benefit, net of minority interest (806.6 ) 92.4 4.9 34.4 (674.9 ) Net earnings (loss) from discontinued operations $ 1,392.9 $ (1,090.3 ) $ (8.9 ) $ (51.6 ) $ 242.1 Year Ended December 31, 2003 New Viacom Blockbuster Famous Players Eliminations/ Other Total Revenues from discontinued operations $ 7,304.4 $ 5,911.7 $ 386.9 $ (408.0 ) $ 13,195.0 Earnings (loss) from discontinued operations $ 1,938.0 $ (878.8 ) $ 1.0 $ (43.8 ) $ 1,016.4 Minority interest (4.5 ) 160.0 (1.6 ) 153.9 1,933.5 (718.8 ) (.6 ) (43.8 ) 1,170.3 Income tax (provision) benefit, net of minority interest (786.1 ) (83.6 ) .2 17.7 (851.8 ) Net earnings (loss) from discontinued operations $ 1,147.4 $ (802.4 ) $ (.4 ) $ (26.1 ) $ 318.5 Included in discontinued operations in 2004 and 2003 are non cash impairment charges of $1.5 billion ($1.2 billion net of minority interest and tax) and $1.3 billion ($1.0 billion, net of minority interest and tax), respectively, for the impairment of Blockbuster goodwill and other long lived assets in accordance with SFAS 142 and SFAS No. 144 "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets" ("SFAS 144"). Cumulative Effect of Accounting Changes, Net of Minority Interest and Tax Effective December 31, 2004, the Company elected early adoption of Emerging Issues Task Force Topic No. D 108 "Use of the Residual Method to Value Acquired Assets Other Than Goodwill" ("D 108"). D 108 requires companies who have applied the residual value method in the valuation of intangible assets for purposes of impairment testing to use the direct value method. As a result of the II 12 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) adoption, the Company recorded a charge of $2.2 billion ($1.3 billion net of tax), or $1.53 per diluted share, to reduce the intangible assets balance attributable to its television stations FCC licenses. This charge has been reflected as a cumulative effect of accounting change. For 2003, the cumulative effect of accounting change, net of minority interest and tax, of $18.5 million, or $.02 per diluted share, resulted from the adoption of SFAS No. 143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations." Net Earnings (Loss) For 2005, the Company reported a net loss of $7.09 billion versus $17.46 billion in 2004 and net earnings of $1.42 billion in 2003. For 2005 and 2004, the loss was driven by the non cash impairment charges of $9.48 billion in 2005 and $18.0 billion in 2004. For 2004 and 2003, net earnings (loss) also reflected an after tax non cash charge of $1.2 billion and $1.0 billion, respectively, reflected in discontinued operations. Segment Results of Operations For the Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 The tables below present the Companys revenues, Segment operating income before depreciation and amortization and SFAS 142 impairment charges ("Segment OIBDA before SFAS 142 Impairment Charges"), operating income (loss), and depreciation and amortization by segment, for each of the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. Year Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Revenues: Television $ 9,325.2 $ 9,448.5 $ 8,680.5 Radio 2,114.8 2,096.1 2,097.6 Outdoor 1,949.3 1,880.2 1,748.3 Parks/Publishing 1,187.1 1,160.8 1,069.3 Eliminations (40.0 ) (38.3 ) (41.2 ) Total Revenues $ 14,536.4 $ 14,547.3 $ 13,554.5 II 13 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Segment OIBDA before SFAS 142 Impairment Charges(a): Television $ 1,824.7 $ 1,981.2 $ 1,656.5 Radio 925.0 948.2 1,002.4 Outdoor 469.9 453.9 423.8 Parks/Publishing 184.8 180.2 148.1 Corporate (120.5 ) (98.5 ) (71.3 ) Residual costs (118.7 ) (113.8 ) (146.5 ) SFAS 142 impairment charges (b) (9,484.4 ) (17,997.1 ) Depreciation and amortization (498.7 ) (508.6 ) (501.7 ) Operating Income (Loss) $ (6,817.9 ) $ (15,154.5 ) $ 2,511.3 Operating Income (Loss): Television (b) $ (4,791.5 ) $ 1,807.5 $ 1,481.5 Radio (b) (2,154.1 ) (10,023.5 ) 975.0 Outdoor (b) 260.5 (6,824.5 ) 207.9 Parks/Publishing 117.6 111.2 77.5 Corporate (131.7 ) (111.4 ) (84.1 ) Residual costs (118.7 ) (113.8 ) (146.5 ) Total Operating Income (Loss) $ (6,817.9 ) $ (15,154.5 ) $ 2,511.3 Depreciation and Amortization: Television $ 178.8 $ 173.7 $ 175.0 Radio 32.1 29.9 27.4 Outdoor 209.4 223.1 215.9 Parks/Publishing 67.2 69.0 70.6 Corporate 11.2 12.9 12.8 Total Depreciation and Amortization $ 498.7 $ 508.6 $ 501.7 (a)The Company presents Segment OIBDA before SFAS 142 Impairment Charges as the primary measure of profit and loss for its operating segments in accordance with SFAS 131 "Disclosure about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information" ("SFAS 131"). The Company believes the presentation of Segment OIBDA before SFAS 142 Impairment Charges is relevant and useful for investors because it allows investors to view segment performance in a manner similar to the method used by the Companys management and enhances their ability to understand the Companys operating performance. The reconciliation of Segment OIBDA before SFAS 142 Impairment Charges to the Companys consolidated Net earnings (loss) is presented in Note 15 (Reportable Segments) to the Consolidated Financial Statements. (b)As a result of the Companys annual goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets impairment test, non cash charges of $9.48 billion and $18.0 billion were recorded in 2005 and 2004, respectively, to reduce the carrying value of goodwill in 2005 and goodwill and intangible assets in 2004. The 2005 charge of $9.48 billion is comprised of $6.44 billion for Television and $3.05 billion for Radio. The 2004 charge of $18.0 billion is comprised of $10.94 billion for Radio and $7.06 billion for Outdoor. II 14 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Segment Results of Operations 2005 vs. 2004 and 2004 vs. 2003 Television (CBS and UPN Television Networks and Stations, Television Production and Syndication, and Showtime Networks, owner of several premium subscription television program services) (Contributed 64% of consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005, 65% for the year ended December 31, 2004 and 64% for the year ended December 31, 2003.) Year Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Revenues $ 9,325.2 $ 9,448.5 $ 8,680.5 OIBDA before SFAS 142 impairment charge $ 1,824.7 $ 1,981.2 $ 1,656.5 SFAS 142 impairment charge (6,437.4 ) Depreciation and amortization (178.8 ) (173.7 ) (175.0 ) Operating income (loss) $ (4,791.5 ) $ 1,807.5 $ 1,481.5 Operating income as a % of revenues NM 19 % 17% Capital expenditures $ 197.2 $ 118.5 $ 115.6 NM Not meaningful 2005 vs. 2004 For 2005, Television revenues decreased $123.3 million, or 1%, to $9.33 billion as advertising revenue growth of 2% was more than offset by lower television license fee revenues. CBS and UPN combined advertising increased 4% with a 7% increase in primetime due to 6% average rate increases, partially offset by a decline in sports from the absence of the Super Bowl. For 2005, the Stations group advertising revenues decreased 2% as 2004 advertising revenues benefited from political spending in a presidential election year and the telecast of the Super Bowl on CBS. Excluding the impact of the Super Bowl and political advertising, the Stations group advertising revenues increased 2%. Television license fee revenues for 2005 decreased 21% reflecting lower domestic syndication and network revenues. Domestic syndication revenues decreased as contributions from 2005 availabilities, including the Insider, Becker and Diagnosis Murder, did not match prior year contributions from Star Trek: Deep Space Nine, Frasier and Hollywood Squares. Network revenues were lower due to the absence of revenues from the series Frasier which is no longer in production. Affiliate fees at Showtime Networks increased 2% principally reflecting rate increases and growth in subscribers. For 2005, Television reported an operating loss of $4.79 billion, which included a non cash impairment charge of $6.44 billion to reduce the carrying amount of goodwill. Television OIBDA before SFAS 142 Impairment Charge decreased 8% to $1.82 billion in 2005 from $1.98 billion in 2004 reflecting the decrease in revenues noted above and higher SG&A expenses partially offset by lower operating expenses. Operating expenses, primarily comprised of production and programming expenses, decreased 1%, or $56.6 million, to $6.22 billion principally due to lower production costs for network series and the absence of prior year costs for the Super Bowl. SG&A expenses increased 8% to $1.28 billion primarily due to higher advertising and promotion and the inclusion of expenses for SportsLine.com, acquired in December 2004. Included in 2005 SG&A expenses is a severance charge of $11.3 million for organizational changes at Showtime Networks. Capital expenditures increased $78.7 million to $197.2 million in 2005 from $118.5 million in 2004, principally reflecting increased spending for broadcasting equipment. II 15 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) License fees for completed television programming in syndication and on cable are recorded as revenues in the period that the products are available for exhibition, which, among other reasons, may cause substantial fluctuation in operating results. Unrecognized revenues attributable to such licensing agreements were approximately $788.1 million and $728.9 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. 2004 vs. 2003 For 2004, Television revenues increased $768.0 million, or 9%, to $9.45 billion principally driven by advertising revenue growth at the broadcast networks and the Stations group and higher television license fee revenues. CBS and UPN Networks combined advertising revenues increased 12% with an 11% increase in CBS and UPN primetime due to 11% average rate increases. CBS Network and the Stations group advertising revenues benefited from the 2004 telecast of Super Bowl XXXVIII. The combination of the Super Bowl and increased political advertising contributed 3% of Televisions total revenue growth. For 2004, the Stations group advertising revenues increased 10% reflecting higher political advertising with more units sold at higher average unit rates. The Stations group also benefited from higher ad sales in the automotive, leisure and media, and restaurant industries. Television revenues in 2004 included an increase in television license fee revenues of 2% benefiting from the basic cable availability of Star Trek: Deep Space Nine, the initial domestic syndication of CSI and the renewal by incumbent stations of Everybody Loves Raymond, partially offset by lower network revenues for shows no longer in production including Frasier. Home entertainment revenues increased due to the DVD releases of Star Trek: Voyager and Star Trek: Original Series. Showtime Networks affiliate revenues increased 1%. For 2004, Television operating income increased $326.0 million, or 22%, to $1.81 billion and Television OIBDA before SFAS 142 Impairment Charge increased $324.7 million, or 20%, to $1.98 billion principally due to the revenue increases noted above partially offset by higher expenses. Total expenses increased 6% in 2004 primarily due to higher production and programming expenses and higher SG&A expenses. Production costs and programming expenses increased 5% reflecting higher program rights expense for sports events and primetime series. Included in SG&A expenses was a severance charge of $10.4 million recorded in the second quarter of 2004 related to a management change. Television operating income in 2003 included approximately $27 million in insurance recoveries. Operating income as a percentage of revenues was 19% in 2004 versus 17% in 2003. II 16 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Radio (CBS Radio) (Contributed 15% of consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005, 14% for the year ended December 31, 2004 and 15% for the year ended December 31, 2003.) Year Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Revenues $ 2,114.8 $ 2,096.1 $ 2,097.6 OIBDA before SFAS 142 impairment charges $ 925.0 $ 948.2 $ 1,002.4 SFAS 142 impairment charges (3,047.0 ) (10,941.8 ) Depreciation and amortization (32.1 ) (29.9 ) (27.4 ) Operating income (loss) $ (2,154.1 ) $ (10,023.5 ) $ 975.0 Operating income as a % of revenues NM NM 46% Capital expenditures $ 37.7 $ 38.2 $ 14.1 NM Not meaningful 2005 vs. 2004 Radios revenues are generated domestically from 179 radio stations. For 2005, Radio revenues increased 1% to $2.11 billion reflecting 2% growth in local radio advertising partially offset by a 1% decrease in national advertising. Advertising revenues reflected an increase in average unit rates partially offset by a decline in the units sold. The top 10 markets were up 3% and the top 20 markets were up 2% in advertising revenues, led by increases in Los Angeles, Philadelphia and Atlanta. Radio receives consideration for management services provided to Westwood One, an affiliated company. Revenues from these arrangements were approximately $63.4 million for 2005 versus $65.9 million for 2004. For 2005, Radio reported an operating loss of $2.15 billion compared with an operating loss of $10.02 billion in 2004, which included non cash impairment charges of $3.05 billion and $10.94 billion in 2005 and 2004, respectively, to reduce goodwill and intangible assets. Radio OIBDA before SFAS 142 Impairment Charges decreased 2% to $925.0 million in 2005 from $948.2 million in 2004 reflecting increases in operating and SG&A expenses, partially offset by the revenue increases noted above. Operating expenses, primarily comprised of radio programming and production expenses increased 7% to $548.7 million in 2005 from $513.9 million in 2004 primarily due to increased talent costs, higher music licensing, and increased programming costs and sports rights. SG&A expenses increased 1% to $641.0 million in 2005 from $634.0 million in 2004 primarily reflecting the gain on sale of FCC licenses of $14.6 million in 2005 versus $30.9 million in 2004, partially offset by lower bad debt expense in 2005. As a result of changes in morning show programming at 27 owned radio stations, the Company anticipates flat to slightly lower Radio revenues and expenses in 2006. 2004 vs. 2003 For 2004, Radio revenues were relatively flat at $2.10 billion reflecting continued weakness in national and local radio advertising revenues in part due to increased competition from other advertising media. Advertising revenues reflected a decline in the units sold, partially offset by an increase in average unit rates and higher affiliated revenues. Revenues from Westwood One were approximately $65.9 million for 2004 versus $64.3 million for 2003. II 17 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) For 2004, Radio reported an operating loss of $10.02 billion, which included a $10.94 billion non cash impairment charge to reduce goodwill and intangible assets. Radio OIBDA before SFAS 142 Impairment Charge decreased 5% to $948.2 million in 2004 from $1.0 billion in 2003, reflecting higher operating and SG&A expenses. Operating expenses increased 5% to $513.9 million in 2004 from $489.7 million in 2003 reflecting higher contractual talent costs. SG&A expenses increased 5% to $634.0 million in 2004 from $605.5 million in 2003 reflecting higher advertising, promotion and employee related expenses. Outdoor (CBS Outdoor) (Contributed 13% of consolidated revenues for each of the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003.) Year Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Revenues $ 1,949.3 $ 1,880.2 $ 1,748.3 OIBDA before SFAS 142 impairment charge $ 469.9 $ 453.9 $ 423.8 SFAS 142 impairment charge (7,055.3 ) Depreciation and amortization (209.4 ) (223.1 ) (215.9 ) Operating income (loss) $ 260.5 $ (6,824.5 ) $ 207.9 Operating income as a % of revenues 13 % NM 12% Capital expenditures $ 68.4 $ 56.5 $ 58.1 NM Not meaningful 2005 vs 2004 For 2005, Outdoor revenues increased 4% to $1.95 billion from $1.88 billion, principally due to a 6% increase from its North American properties, reflecting an 18% increase in Mexico, a 16% increase in Canadian properties and a 4% increase in U.S. billboards and displays. European revenues were flat year over year, primarily reflecting growth in the U.K. offset by a decline in Italy due to the loss of a component of the Italian transit contract in 2004. The impact of foreign exchange translation on revenues in 2005 was approximately $8 million in additional revenues, primarily in Canada. In constant dollars, Canadas revenues increased 8%. Approximately 45% of Outdoor revenues were generated from international regions, principally Europe, for both 2005 and 2004. Operating income increased to $260.5 million in 2005 from a loss of $6.82 billion in 2004, which included a non cash impairment charge of $7.06 billion to reduce goodwill. Outdoor OIBDA before SFAS 142 Impairment Charge increased 4% to $469.9 million in 2005 from $453.9 million in 2004, reflecting the revenue increases noted above partially offset by higher operating and SG&A expenses. Operating expenses increased 3% to $1.13 billion in 2005 from $1.10 billion in 2004, reflecting higher billboard lease costs and maintenance expenses, partially offset by lower transit lease costs. SG&A expenses increased 7% to $345.2 million in 2005 from $323.6 million in 2004 primarily reflecting higher employee related expenses. Revenues and operating income were negatively impacted by $11 million and $28 million, respectively, in 2005 due to hurricanes. II 18 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) 2004 vs. 2003 For 2004, Outdoor revenues increased 8% to $1.88 billion from $1.75 billion reflecting a 14% increase from its European properties and a 4% increase in North America. North American properties reflected a 16% increase in Canadian revenues and a 5% increase in U.S. billboards revenues, partially offset by a decrease of 11% in Mexico. Revenue growth from the European properties benefited from favorable foreign exchange rates. The impact of foreign exchange translation on revenues was approximately $68 million, or four percentage points of the increase for the year. Approximately 45% of Outdoor revenues were generated from international regions, principally Europe, in 2004 versus 43% in 2003. For 2004, Outdoor reported an operating loss of $6.82 billion, which included the $7.06 billion non cash impairment charge, versus operating income of $207.9 million in 2003. Outdoor OIBDA before SFAS 142 Impairment Charge increased 7% to $453.9 million in 2004 from $423.8 million in 2003 reflecting higher revenues partially offset by higher operating and SG&A expenses. Operating expenses increased 9% due to higher transit and billboard lease costs, as well as the impact of foreign exchange translation. SG&A expenses increased 4% primarily due to higher employee related expenses. Parks/Publishing (Theme Parks Operations and Consumer Book Publishing) (Contributed 8% to consolidated revenues for each of the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003.) Year Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Revenues $ 1,187.1 $ 1,160.8 $ 1,069.3 OIBDA $ 184.8 $ 180.2 $ 148.1 Depreciation and amortization (67.2 ) (69.0 ) (70.6 ) Operating income $ 117.6 $ 111.2 $ 77.5 Capital expenditures $ 52.8 $ 48.9 $ 46.2 2005 vs. 2004 For 2005, Parks/Publishing revenues increased 2% to $1.19 billion in 2005 from $1.16 billion in 2004, reflecting higher revenues at both Parks and Publishing. Parks revenues increased 3%, driven by a 2% increase in attendance and a 1% increase in per capita spending. Parks also benefited from favorable foreign currency translation in 2005. Publishing revenues increased 2% primarily due to several top selling 2005 titles including 1776 by David McCullough, Love Smart by Dr. Phil C. McGraw and Teacher Man by Frank McCourt, as well as 5% growth in the Childrens group led by the performance of series titles, such as Dora the Explorer and Peanuts. Revenues from the Audio group increased 14% in 2005. For 2005, Parks/Publishing operating income increased 6% to $117.6 million from $111.2 million and OIBDA increased 3% to $184.8 million from $180.2 million, primarily due to the revenue increases noted above, partially offset by higher operating and SG&A expenses. Operating expenses increased 2%, reflecting a 4% increase at Parks and a 1% increase at Publishing. SG&A expenses increased 3% reflecting a 4% increase at Publishing, primarily due to higher advertising, selling and marketing costs, partially offset by a 1% decrease at Parks. II 19 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) 2004 vs. 2003 For 2004, Parks/Publishing revenues increased 9% to $1.16 billion from $1.07 billion reflecting higher revenues at both Parks and Publishing. Parks revenues increased 9%, driven by a 12% increase in attendance partially offset by a 2% decline in per capita spending. In 2004, Parks benefited from favorable foreign currency translation. Publishing revenues increased 8% primarily due to several top selling titles including Angels & Demons by Dan Brown and Family First by Dr. Phil C. McGraw. For 2004, Parks/Publishing operating income increased 43% to $111.2 million from $77.5 million and OIBDA increased 22% to $180.2 million from $148.1 million, primarily due to the revenue increases noted above, partially offset by a 7% increase in operating expenses and a 3% increase in SG&A expenses. Financial Position Current assets decreased by $698.0 million to $6.80 billion at December 31, 2005 from $7.49 billion at December 31, 2004 primarily due to a $2.36 billion decrease in current assets of discontinued operations reflecting the spin off of New Viacom. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in cash and cash equivalents of $877.1 million, receivables of $256.7 million, inventory of $226.6 million and deferred tax assets of $267.4 million. The allowance for doubtful accounts as a percentage of receivables was 5.1% at December 31, 2005 compared with 5.8% at December 31, 2004. Net property and equipment remained relatively flat at $3.23 billion as capital expenditures of $375.6 million, the addition of capital leases of $18.6 million and the effects of acquisitions were offset by depreciation expense of $402.8 million. Goodwill of $18.90 billion decreased $9.35 billion from $28.25 billion at December 31, 2004, primarily reflecting the impairment of goodwill at the Television and Radio segments. Intangible assets, principally consisting of FCC licenses, increased by $141.3 million to $10.51 billion at December 31, 2005 from $10.37 billion at December 31, 2004, primarily reflecting the acquisition of a television station, partially offset by amortization expense of $95.9 million. Current liabilities decreased $1.50 billion to $5.38 billion at December 31, 2005 from $6.88 billion at December 31, 2004 primarily due to a $2.59 billion decrease in current liabilities of discontinued operations reflecting the spin off of New Viacom and a $57.3 million decrease in other current liabilities. This decrease was partially offset by increases of $205.8 million in accounts payable, $187.9 million in participants share, residuals and royalties payable and $130.9 million in program rights primarily for television product. Total stockholders equity decreased $20.29 billion to $21.74 billion at December 31, 2005 from $42.02 billion at December 31, 2004. The following table summarizes the significant activity during the year. Total Stockholders Equity at December 31, 2004 $ 42,024.3 Net loss for the year ended December 31, 2005 (7,089.1 ) Spin off of New Viacom (7,730.7 ) Stock purchases (5,456.2 ) Dividends (440.9 ) Exercise of stock options, including tax benefit 423.9 Other 5.7 Total Stockholders Equity at December 31, 2005 $ 21,737.0 II 20 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Cash Flows Cash and cash equivalents, including discontinued operations, increased by $727.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. The change in cash and cash equivalents was as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Cash provided by operating activities from: Continuing operations $ 1,909.6 $ 1,650.7 $ 1,586.4 Discontinued operations 1,627.4 1,989.9 1,911.0 Cash provided by operating activities 3,537.0 3,640.6 $ 3,497.4 Cash provided by (used for) investing activities from: Continuing operations 4,932.9 (245.1 ) (267.8 ) Discontinued operations (165.1 ) (288.6 ) (1,594.6 ) Cash provided by (used for) investing activities 4,767.8 (533.7 ) (1,862.4 ) Cash used for financing activities from: Continuing operations (7,151.8 ) (2,919.0 ) (1,006.3 ) Discontinued operations (425.9 ) (110.4 ) (409.4 ) Cash used for financing activities (7,577.7 ) (3,029.4 ) (1,415.7 ) Net increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 727.1 $ 77.5 $ 219.3 Operating Activities. In 2005, cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations increased $258.9 million, or 16%, to $1.91 billion in 2005 from $1.65 billion in 2004 principally reflecting changes in working capital partially offset by higher taxes paid in 2005. In 2004, cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations increased $64.3 million, or 4%, to $1.65 billion from $1.59 billion principally reflecting higher earnings after adjusting for the non cash impairment charge, partially offset by higher taxes paid in 2004 compared to 2003. Cash paid for income taxes from continuing operations of $520.3 million for 2005 was higher than 2004 payments of $416.6 million principally due to the absence of audit refunds that were received in 2004. Cash taxes for 2006 are anticipated to increase by approximately $250 million to $300 million principally driven by higher pre tax income and a decrease in income tax benefit from stock option exercises. Investing Activities. In 2005, cash provided by investing activities from continuing operations of $4.93 billion reflected the $5.4 billion special dividend received from New Viacom in the fourth quarter of 2005 as well as proceeds from dispositions of $279.6 million, principally from the sale of television and radio stations. These proceeds were partially offset by capital expenditures of $375.6 million and acquisitions of $462.9 million, primarily reflecting the acquisition of KOVR TV in Sacramento and KIFR FM, a San Francisco radio station. Capital expenditures increased $113.4 million, or 43%, to $375.6 million in 2005 from $262.2 million principally reflecting additional broadcasting equipment and investments in infrastructures in preparation of the Separation on December 31, 2005. Net cash expenditures for investing activities from continuing operations of $245.1 million primarily for investment in systems upgrades and building improvements for the year ended December 31, 2004 principally reflected capital expenditures of $262.2 million. Net cash expenditures for investing activities from continuing operations of $267.8 million in 2003 primarily reflected capital expenditures of $234.1 million primarily for broadcasting equipment and outdoor advertising structures. II 21   Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Capital expenditures for 2006 are anticipated to be in the range of $375 million to $400 million. Financing Activities. In 2005, cash flow used for financing activities from continuing operations of $7.15 billion principally reflected the purchase of Company stock for $5.56 billion, repayment of notes and debentures of $1.44 billion and dividend payments of $451.3 million. These uses were partially offset by proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options of $317.5 million. In 2004, cash flow used for financing activities from continuing operations of $2.92 billion principally reflected the purchase of Company stock for $2.50 billion and dividend payments of $415.2 million. These uses were partially offset by the exercise of employee stock options of $119.6 million. Net cash flow used for financing activities from continuing operations of $1.01 billion for 2003 principally reflected the purchase of Company stock for $945.1 million, the repayment of notes and debentures of $765.4 million, the net repayment of bank debt, including commercial paper, of $162.1 million and the payment of $104.6 million of dividends. These uses were partially offset by proceeds from the issuance of notes and debentures of $736.5 million and from the exercise of employee stock options of $245.2 million. Stock Purchase Program and Cash Dividends In 2005, on a trade date basis, Former Viacom purchased 79.6 million shares of class B common stock for approximately $5.46 billion. As of December 31, 2005, there was approximately $579.8 million remaining under the $8.0 billion purchase program. The Company does not currently expect to make purchases under its stock purchase program during 2006. In 2004, on a trade date basis, Former Viacom purchased 34.2 million shares of class B common stock for approximately $2.53 billion. As a result of the Separation, all Former Viacom share and per share data have been adjusted to reflect the one share for .5 share conversion. The Former Viacom declared a quarterly cash dividend on its common stock during each of the four quarters of 2005 and 2004 for a total of $440.9 million in 2005 and $427.0 million in 2004. On January 25, 2006, the Company declared a quarterly cash dividend of $.16 per share payable on April 1, 2006. CBS Corp. currently expects to continue to pay a regular cash dividend to its stockholders. Based on the number of shares of CBS Corp. Class A and Class B Common Stock outstanding after the Separation, a $.16 per share quarterly dividend declaration for each of the four quarters of 2006 would result in approximately $480 million of annual dividends. Acquisitions and Dispositions In January 2006, the Company announced its intention to divest Paramount Parks and to complete the divesture in the second half of 2006. On January 5, 2006, the Company completed the acquisition of CSTV Networks, Inc., a cable network and online digital sports media company, for a purchase price of approximately $325 million, comprised of 10.2 million shares of CBS Corp. Class B Common Stock and $49 million in cash. During the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company acquired KIFR FM, a San Francisco radio station, for approximately $95 million. During the second quarter of 2005, the Company acquired KOVR TV, a Sacramento television station for approximately $285.0 million. II 22 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Capital Structure At December 31, 2005 2004 Notes payable to banks $ 7.2 $ 5.9 Senior debt 4.625% 8.875% due 2005 2051 7,919.9 9,421.4 Other notes 1.0 17.9 Obligations under capital leases 125.4 471.8 Total debt 8,053.5 9,917.0 Less other discontinued operations debt 153.2 553.4 Less current portion of long term debt 747.1 12.1 Total long term debt from continuing operations, net of current portion $ 7,153.2 $ 9,351.5 Total debt of $8.05 billion at December 31, 2005 and $9.92 billion at December 31, 2004 was 27% and 19%, respectively, as a percentage of total capitalization of the Company. The senior debt of CBS Corp. is fully and unconditionally guaranteed by its wholly owned subsidiary CBS Operations Inc. (formerly known as Viacom International Inc.). Senior debt in the amount of $52.2 million of the Companys wholly owned subsidiary, CBS Broadcasting Inc., is not guaranteed. The Companys total debt included, as of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively, (i) an aggregate unamortized premium of $31.8 million and $35.3 million and (ii) the net change in the carrying value of the debt relating to fair value hedges of $(8.5) million and $17.4 million. On January 30, 2006, the Company redeemed, at maturity, all of the outstanding 6.4% senior notes for $800.0 million. For the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, the following debt maturities, redemptions and repurchases occurred: Debt Maturities May 20, 2005, 7.15% senior notes, $500.0 million June 1, 2005, 7.75% senior notes, $951.0 million Debt Redemptions July 15, 2004, all of the outstanding Go Outdoor Systems Holdings S.A. 10.50% senior subordinated notes due 2009 at 105.25% of principal During 2004, the Company acquired SportsLine.com, which had outstanding $16.9 million 5% convertible subordinated notes due 2006. These notes were redeemed in January 2005. Debt Repurchases For the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Company repurchased approximately $21.2 million and $20.0 million of its debt, respectively. The Companys scheduled maturities of long term debt at face value, including discontinued operations debt and excluding commercial paper and capital leases, outstanding at December 31, 2005 were as follows: 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 and thereafter Long term debt $ 804.6 $ 700.7 $ .8 $ .8 $ 1,637.7 $ 4,760.2 II 23 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) CBS Corp. Credit Agreement As of December 31, 2005, the Company had a $3.0 billion revolving credit facility due December 2010 (the "Credit Facility"). The Company, at its option, may also borrow in certain foreign currencies up to specified limits under the Credit Facility. Borrowing rates under the facility are determined at the Companys option at the time of each borrowing and are based generally on the prime rate in the United States or the London Interbank Offer Rate ("LIBOR") plus a margin based on the Companys senior unsecured debt rating. The Company pays a facility fee based on the total amount of the commitments. As of December 31, 2005, the remaining availability under the Credit Facility, net of outstanding letters of credit, was $2.72 billion. The Credit Facility contains covenants, which, among other things, require that the Company maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio. At December 31, 2005, the Company was in compliance with all covenants under the Credit Facility. The primary purpose of the Credit Facility is to support commercial paper borrowings. At December 31, 2005, the Company had no commercial paper borrowings under its $3.0 billion commercial paper program. Accounts Receivable Securitization Programs As of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively, the Company had an aggregate of $550.0 million and $1.0 billion outstanding under revolving receivable securitization programs. The decrease reflects $450.0 million of securitized receivables that are attributable to the New Viacom program since the Separation. The programs result in the sale of receivables on a non recourse basis to unrelated third parties on a one year renewable basis, thereby reducing accounts receivable and debt on the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheets. The Company enters into these arrangements because they provide an additional source of liquidity. Proceeds from the programs were used to reduce outstanding borrowings. The terms of the revolving securitization arrangements require that the receivable pools subject to the programs meet certain performance ratios. As of December 31, 2005, the Company was in compliance with the required ratios under the receivable securitization programs. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company believes that its operating cash flows from continuing operations ($1.91 billion in 2005), cash and cash equivalents ($1.66 billion at December 31, 2005), borrowing capacity under its committed bank facility (which consisted of availability under the Credit Facility of $2.72 billion at December 31, 2005), and access to capital markets are sufficient to fund its operating needs, including commitments and contingencies, capital and investing commitments and its financing requirements for the foreseeable future. The funding for commitments to purchase sports programming rights, television and film operations, and talent contracts will come primarily from cash flow from operations. The Company continually projects anticipated cash requirements, which include capital expenditures, acquisitions, dividends and principal payments on its outstanding indebtedness, as well as cash flows generated from operating activities available to meet these needs. Any net cash funding requirements are financed with short term borrowings (primarily commercial paper) and long term debt. Commercial paper borrowings, which also accommodate day to day changes in funding requirements, are backed by a committed bank facility that may be utilized in the event that commercial paper borrowings are not available. The Company believes its credit position affords sufficient access to the capital markets to meet the Companys financing requirements. In accordance with the terms of the Separation Agreement, New Viacom paid to the Company an estimated special dividend of $5.4 billion. Pursuant to the provisions of the Separation Agreement, the II 24 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) estimated special dividend is subject to adjustment. CBS Corp. used the proceeds from the special cash dividend to, among other things, repay outstanding commercial paper, debt outstanding under its revolving Credit Facility and certain fixed rate debt upon maturity in January 2006. On March 14, 2006, the Company submitted to New Viacom an adjustment to increase the estimated special dividend in the amount of approximately $460 million. The Company and New Viacom have up to 65 days to agree upon the adjustment before any disputed amounts would become subject to a dispute resolution process. The Company anticipates that future debt maturities will be funded with cash and cash equivalents, and cash flows generated from operating activities and other debt financing. There are no provisions in any of the Companys material financing agreements that would cause an acceleration of the obligation in the event of a downgrade in the Companys debt ratings. The Company filed a shelf registration statement with the SEC registering debt securities, preferred stock and warrants of CBS Corp. that may be issued for aggregate gross proceeds of $5.0 billion. The registration statement was first declared effective on January 8, 2001. The net proceeds from the sale of the offered securities may be used by CBS Corp. for general corporate purposes, including repayment of borrowings, working capital and capital expenditures, or for such other purposes as may be specified in the applicable prospectus supplement. To date, the Company has issued $2.385 billion of securities under the shelf registration statement. As of December 31, 2005, the Companys significant contractual obligations, including payments due by period, were as follows: Payments Due by Period Total 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 and thereafter Programming and talent commitments (1) $ 14,164.3 $ 3,299.0 $ 4,392.1 $ 3,382.9 $ 3,090.3 Operating leases (2) 1,288.9 253.5 406.1 256.6 372.7 Guaranteed minimum franchise payments (3) 1,822.7 405.7 512.5 351.5 553.0 Purchase obligations (4) 281.3 158.1 68.6 52.0 2.6 Capital lease obligations (including interest) (5) 169.0 21.2 38.6 29.6 79.6 Long term debt obligations (6) 7,904.8 804.6 701.5 1,638.5 4,760.2 Other long term contractual obligations (7) 1,115.6 720.2 250.7 144.7 Interest commitments on long term debt (8) 6,338.6 498.3 921.9 856.2 4,062.2 (1)Programming and talent commitments of the Company include $9.89 billion for the acquisition of sports programming rights, $2.86 billion relating to television, radio, and film production and acquisitions and $897.8 million for talent contracts. (2)Includes long term noncancelable operating lease commitments for office space and equipment, transponders, studio facilities and vehicles. (3)The outdoor advertising business has franchise rights entitling it to display advertising on media including billboards, transit shelters, buses, rail systems (in car, station platforms and terminals), mall kiosks, masts and stadium signage. Under most of these franchise agreements, the franchisor is entitled to receive the greater of a percentage of the relevant advertising revenues, net of advertising agency fees, or a specified guaranteed minimum annual payment. (4)Purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including open purchase orders. (5)Includes capital leases for satellite transponders. (6)Long term debt obligations are presented at face value. (7)Long term contractual obligations including program liabilities and participations due to producers and residuals. (8)Future interest based on scheduled debt maturities, excluding capital leases. II 25 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In connection with the Separation, New Viacom has agreed to indemnify CBS Corp. with respect to obligations related to Blockbuster. Among those obligations are guarantees entered into by Former Viacom of certain Blockbuster store leases which aggregated approximately $352.9 million at December 31, 2005. Certain leases contain renewal options that can extend the primary lease term and remain covered by the guarantees. These guarantees are secured by a $150 million Blockbuster letter of credit. In connection with the July 2005 divestiture of Famous Players, New Viacom has agreed to indemnify CBS Corp. with respect to liabilities associated with Famous Players theater leases. In the fourth quarter of 2004, the Company sold its 50% equity interest in UCI, which operates movie theaters in Europe, Latin America and Asia. In connection with the Separation, New Viacom has agreed to indemnify CBS Corp. with respect to liabilities associated with certain UCI theater leases. The guarantees entered into by Former Viacom totaled approximately $152.4 million at December 31, 2005 and are secured by bank guarantees provided by the buyer. New Viacom also owns a 50% interest in WF Cinema Holdings, L.P. and Graumans Theatres, LLC and certain of their theater leases were guaranteed by Former Viacom. New Viacom has agreed to indemnify CBS Corp. with respect to obligations under these guarantees. These guarantees totaled approximately $10.0 million at December 31, 2005. Additionally, the Company has indemnification obligations with respect to letters of credit and surety bonds primarily used as security against non performance in the normal course of business. The outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds approximated $348.2 million at December 31, 2005 and are not recorded on the balance sheet as of December 31, 2005. Critical Accounting Policies Financial Reporting Release No. 60, "Cautionary Advice Regarding Disclosure About Critical Accounting Policies" ("FRR 60"), suggests companies provide additional disclosure and commentary on those accounting policies considered most critical. FRR 60 considers an accounting policy to be critical if it is important to the Companys financial condition and results of operations, and requires significant judgment and estimates on the part of management in its application. For a summary of the Companys significant accounting policies, including the critical accounting policies discussed below, see the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. The preparation of the Companys financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amount of expenses during the reporting period. On an ongoing basis, the Company evaluates its estimates, which are based on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. The result of these evaluations forms the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities and the reported amount of expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions. The following accounting policies require significant management judgments and estimates. Accounting for the production and distribution of television programming is in accordance with SOP 00 2, which requires managements judgment as it relates to total revenues to be received and costs to be incurred throughout the life of each program. These judgments are used to determine the amortization II 26 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) of capitalized production costs, expensing of participation and residual cost and any necessary net realizable value adjustments. The Company accounts for its business acquisitions under the purchase method of accounting. The total cost of acquisitions is allocated to the underlying net assets, based on their respective estimated fair values. The excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the tangible and identifiable intangible net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed requires managements judgment and often involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions, including assumptions with respect to future cash inflows and outflows, discount rates, asset lives, and market multiples, among other items. In accordance with SFAS 142, the Company tests goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment during the fourth quarter of each year, and on an interim date should factors or indicators become apparent that would require an interim test. A significant downward revision in the present value of estimated future cash flows for a reporting unit or intangible assets could result in an impairment under SFAS 142 and a non cash charge would be required. Balance sheet reserves and liabilities related to legal issues, restructuring charges and discontinued businesses, including asbestos and environmental matters, require significant judgments and estimates by management. The Company continually evaluates these estimates based on changes in the relevant facts and circumstances and events that may impact estimates. While management believes that the current reserves for matters related to historical and predecessor operations of the Company, including environmental and asbestos are adequate, there can be no assurance that circumstances will not change in future periods. Pension benefit obligations and net periodic pension costs are calculated using many actuarial assumptions. Two key assumptions used in accounting for pension liabilities and expenses are the discount rate and expected rate of return on plan assets. The discount rate reflects the rate at which the pension benefit obligations could effectively be settled. The Company determined the discount rate by projecting the plans expected future benefit payments as defined for the projected benefit obligation. Those projected benefit payments are used to construct a high quality bond portfolio with interest and principal payments that provide the cash flows necessary to meet the projected benefit payments. The projected benefit payments are discounted by the weighted average yield of the bond portfolio. The expected long term returns on plan assets were based upon the target asset allocation and return estimates for equity and debt securities. The expected rate of return for equities was based upon the risk free rate plus a premium for equity securities. The expected return on debt securities was based upon an analysis of current and historical yields on portfolios of similar quality and duration. For 2005, the unrecognized actuarial loss for pension increased principally as a result of change in mortality rate assumption and lower than expected returns from plan assets. A decrease in the discount rate or a decrease in the expected rate of return on plan assets would increase pension expense. The estimated impact of a 25 basis point change in the discount rate would be a change of approximately $14 million on 2006 pension expense and will change the projected benefit obligation by approximately $152 million. The estimated impact of a 25 basis point change in the expected rate of return on plan assets is a change of approximately $10 million in 2006 pension expense. The Company is subject to income taxes in both the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining the worldwide provision for income taxes. The Company is continually audited by U.S. federal and state as well as foreign tax authorities. While it is often difficult to predict the final outcome or the timing of resolution of any particular tax matter, the Company believes that its tax reserves reflect the probable outcome of known contingencies. An estimated II 27 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) effective tax rate for a year is applied to quarterly operating results. In the event there is a significant or unusual item recognized in the quarterly operating results, the tax attributable to that item is separately calculated and recorded in the same quarter. A number of years may elapse before a tax return containing tax matters, for which a reserve has been established, is audited and finally resolved. During 2004, the Company recognized $128.4 million of tax benefits related to the resolution of certain prior year tax audits. Legal Matters Shareholder Derivative Lawsuits and Demands. Two shareholder derivative lawsuits, consolidated as In re Viacom Shareholders Derivative Litigation, were filed in July 2005 in New York State Supreme Court relating to executive compensation and alleged corporate waste. The actions name each member of Former Viacoms Board of Directors, Messrs. Tom Freston and Leslie Moonves (each of whom were executive officers of Former Viacom), and, as a nominal defendant, Former Viacom, alleging that the 2004 compensation of Messrs. Redstone, Freston, and Moonves was excessive and unwarranted and challenging the independence of certain Former Viacom directors. Mr. Redstone is the Companys Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors and Founder and Mr. Moonves is the Companys President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Freston is New Viacoms President and Chief Executive Officer. Plaintiffs seek unspecified damages from the members of the Former Viacom Board of Directors for their alleged breach of fiduciary duties, disgorgement of the 2004 compensation paid to the officers of Former Viacom, equitable relief, and attorney fees and expenses. The Company moved to dismiss the complaints and oral argument was heard on February 16, 2006. No decision has been issued by the court. Any liabilities in this matter adverse to the Company and or New Viacom will be shared equally between the Company and New Viacom. The Company believes that the plaintiffs positions in these actions are without merit and it intends to vigorously defend itself in the litigation. The Company has received shareholder demands seeking access to books and records of the Company relating to executive compensation paid to Sumner M. Redstone, Tom Freston and Leslie Moonves, accompanied by statements that such demands are in furtherance of an investigation of possible mismanagement, self dealing and corporate waste by directors and officers of Former Viacom. Another shareholder demand seeking access to books and records relates to the compensation of Sumner M. Redstone and Mel Karmazin (former Chief Operating Officer of Former Viacom). One of the demands also seeks access to books and records of the Company relating to Sumner M. Redstones acquisition of a controlling interest in Midway Games Inc. The Company intends to comply with all reasonable requests. Under the Separation Agreement between the Company and New Viacom, liabilities in connection with executive compensation claims relating to officers of Former Viacom are shared equally by the Company and New Viacom. Claims Related to Former Businesses: Asbestos, Environmental and Other. The Company is a defendant in lawsuits claiming various personal injuries related to asbestos and other materials, which allegedly occurred principally as a result of exposure caused by various products manufactured by Westinghouse, a predecessor, generally prior to the early 1970s. Westinghouse was neither a producer nor a manufacturer of asbestos. The Company is typically named as one of a large number of defendants in both state and federal cases. In the majority of asbestos lawsuits, the plaintiffs have not identified which of the Companys products is the basis of a claim. Claims against the Company in which a product has been identified principally relate to exposures allegedly caused by asbestos containing insulating material in turbines sold for power generation, industrial and marine use, or by asbestos containing grades of decorative micarta, a laminate used in commercial ships. II 28 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Claims are frequently filed and or settled in large groups, which may make the amount and timing of settlements, and the number of pending claims, subject to significant fluctuation from period to period. The Company does not report as pending those claims on inactive, stayed, deferred or similar dockets which some jurisdictions have established for claimants who allege minimal or no impairment. As of December 31, 2005, the Company had pending approximately 101,170 asbestos claims, as compared with approximately 112,140 as of December 31, 2004 and approximately 112,280 as of December 31, 2003. Of the claims pending as of December 31, 2005, approximately 70,910 were pending in state courts, 27,640 in federal courts and approximately 2,620 were third party claims. During 2005, the Company received approximately 11,470 new claims and closed or moved to an inactive docket approximately 22,440 claims. The Company reports claims as closed when it becomes aware that a dismissal order has been entered by a court or when the Company has reached agreement with the claimants on the material terms of a settlement. Settlement costs depend on the seriousness of the injuries that form the basis of the claim, the quality of evidence supporting the claims and other factors. To date, the Company has not been liable for any third party claims. The Companys total costs for the years 2005 and 2004 for settlement and defense of asbestos claims after insurance recoveries and net of tax benefits were approximately $37.2 million and $58.4 million, respectively. The Companys costs for settlement and defense of asbestos claims may vary year to year as insurance proceeds are not always recovered in the same period as the insured portion of the expenses. Filings include claims for individuals suffering from mesothelioma, a rare cancer, the risk of which is allegedly increased primarily by exposure to asbestos; lung cancer, a cancer which may be caused by various factors, one of which is alleged to be asbestos exposure; other cancers, and conditions that are substantially less serious, including claims brought on behalf of individuals who are asymptomatic as to an allegedly asbestos related disease. Claims identified as cancer remain a small percentage of asbestos claims pending at December 31, 2005. In a substantial number of the pending claims, the plaintiff has not yet identified the claimed injury. The Company believes that its reserves and insurance are adequate to cover its asbestos liabilities. The Company from time to time receives claims from federal and state environmental regulatory agencies and other entities asserting that it is or may be liable for environmental cleanup costs and related damages principally relating to historical and predecessor operations of the Company. In addition, the Company from time to time receives personal injury claims including toxic tort and product liability claims (other than asbestos) arising from historical operations of the Company and its predecessors. On an ongoing basis, the Company defends itself in a multitude of lawsuits and proceedings and responds to various investigations and inquiries from federal, state and local authorities (collectively, "litigation"). Litigation is inherently uncertain and always difficult to predict. However, based on its understanding and evaluation of the relevant facts and circumstances, the Company believes that the above described legal matters and other litigation to which it is a party are not likely, in the aggregate, to have a material adverse effect on its results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Under the Separation Agreement between the Company and New Viacom, New Viacom has agreed to defend and indemnify CBS Corp. in certain litigation in which CBS Corp. is named. Market Risk The Company is exposed to market risk related to foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. The Company uses derivative financial instruments to modify exposure to risks from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. In accordance with its policy, the Company does not use II 29 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) derivative instruments unless there is an underlying exposure and therefore, the Company does not hold or enter into financial instruments for speculative trading purposes. Foreign Exchange Risk The Company conducts business with companies in various countries outside the United States, resulting in exposure to movements in foreign exchange rates when translating from the foreign local currency to the U.S. dollar. In order to hedge anticipated cash flows and foreign currency balances in such currencies as the British Pound, the Euro, the Canadian Dollar, the Mexican Peso and the Australian Dollar foreign currency forward and option contracts are used. Additionally, the Company designates forward contracts used to hedge future production costs as cash flow hedges, and may designate certain forward contracts as a hedge of the foreign currency exposure of a net investment in a foreign operation. The change in fair value of the non designated contracts is included in current period results as part of "Other items, net." The Company manages the use of foreign exchange derivatives centrally. At December 31, 2005, the notional value of all foreign exchange contracts was $221.4 million which represents hedges of underlying foreign currency balances and expected foreign currency cash flows. At December 31, 2004, the notional value of all foreign exchange contracts was $458.2 million, of which $8.3 million related to the hedging of future productions costs. The remaining $449.9 million represented hedges of underlying foreign currency balances, expected foreign currency cash flows and investment hedges. Interest Rate Risk All of the Companys long term debt has been issued under fixed interest rate agreements. The Company has entered into fixed to floating rate swap agreements for a portion of this debt, which are designated as fair value hedges. These swaps expose the Company to movements in short term interest rates. Based on the amount of fixed to floating rate swaps and receivable securitization programs outstanding at December 31, 2005, a 100 basis point change in interest rates would cause a $16.3 change to pre tax earnings. As of December 31, 2005, if all parties were to agree, the swaps could have been terminated by a net payment from the Company of approximately $9.3 million including accrued interest. At December 31, 2005, the Company was a party to the following outstanding fair value hedges: Interest rate swaps totaling $350 million in notional amount, which matured on January 30, 2006, and (i) received interest on $200 million at a weighted average rate of approximately 2.78% and paid interest based on three month LIBOR in advance and (ii) received interest on $150 million at a weighted average rate of approximately 3.57% and paid interest based on six month LIBOR in arrears. Interest rate swaps totaling $700 million in notional amount, which mature on May 1, 2007, and (i) receive interest on $400 million at 5.11% and pay interest based on three month LIBOR in advance and (ii) receive interest on $300 million at a weighted average rate of approximately 5.35% and pay interest based on three month LIBOR in arrears. Interest rate swaps totaling $300 million in notional amount, which mature on May 15, 2018, receive interest at a weighted average rate of approximately 4.55% and pay interest based on three month LIBOR in advance. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Company did not have any interest rate cash flow hedges outstanding. II 30 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Credit Risk The Company continually monitors its positions with, and credit quality of, the financial institutions which are counterparties to its financial instruments. The Company is exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties to the agreements. However, the Company does not anticipate nonperformance by the counterparties. The Companys receivables do not represent significant concentrations of credit risk at December 31, 2005, due to the wide variety of customers, markets and geographic areas to which the Companys products and services are sold. Related Parties National Amusements, Inc. National Amusements, Inc. ("NAI") is the controlling stockholder of CBS Corp. Mr. Sumner M. Redstone, the controlling stockholder, chairman of the board of directors and chief executive officer of NAI, serves as the Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors for both CBS Corp. and New Viacom. On October 28, 2004, Former Viacom entered into an agreement (the "NAIRI Agreement") with NAI and NAIRI, Inc. ("NAIRI"), a wholly owned subsidiary of NAI, pursuant to which Former Viacom agreed to buy, and NAI and NAIRI agreed to sell, a number of shares of Class B Common Stock each month such that the ownership percentage of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock (considered as a single class) held by NAI and or NAIRI would not increase as a result of purchases of shares of Former Viacom Common Stock under the $8.0 billion stock purchase program announced in October 2004. Pursuant to this agreement, Former Viacom recorded the purchase of 9.2 million shares of Former Viacom Class B Common Stock from NAIRI for $628.9 million in 2005. All Former Viacom share and per share data have been adjusted to reflect the Share Conversion. The Company does not currently anticipate making purchases under this stock purchase program during 2006. New Viacom. CBS Corp., through its normal course of business, is involved in transactions with companies owned by or affiliated with New Viacom. CBS Corp., through its Television segment, licenses its television products to New Viacom, primarily MTV Networks and BET. In addition, CBS Corp. recognizes advertising revenues for media spending placed by various subsidiaries of New Viacom, primarily Paramount Pictures. CBS Corp.s total revenues from these transactions were $173.6 million, $378.2 million and $186.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Simon & Schuster and Paramount Parks are also involved in transactions with New Viacom that have not been material in any of the periods presented. CBS Corp., through Showtime Networks and CBS Television, purchases motion picture programming from New Viacom, primarily Paramount Pictures. The costs of these purchases are initially recorded as inventory and amortized over the life of the contract or projected useful life of the programming. Paramount Pictures also distributes certain television products on behalf of CBS Television in the home entertainment market. In addition, CBS Corp. places advertisements with various subsidiaries of New Viacom. The total purchases from these transactions were $154.9 million, $157.4 million and $221.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. II 31 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Transactions with New Viacom and its subsidiaries, through the normal course of business, are settled in cash. The following table presents the amounts due from or due to New Viacom and its subsidiaries in the normal course of business as reflected in CBS Corp.s Consolidated Balance Sheets: At December 31, 2005 2004 Amounts due from New Viacom Receivables $ 235.8 $ 204.5 Other assets (Receivables, non current) 225.2 349.2 Total amounts due from New Viacom $ 461.0 $ 553.7 Amounts due to New Viacom Accounts payable $ 3.4 $ 2.7 Program rights 64.7 64.1 Other liabilities (Program rights, non current) 41.2 43.4 Total amounts due to New Viacom $ 109.3 $ 110.2 In connection with the Separation, CBS Corp. and New Viacom entered into various agreements including the Separation Agreement, the Tax Matters Agreement and a transition services agreement. Separation Agreement. The Separation Agreement identified assets transferred, liabilities assumed and contracts assigned to CBS Corp. by New Viacom and to New Viacom by CBS Corp. in the Separation, and described when and how these transfers, assumptions and assignments were to occur. Neither CBS Corp. nor New Viacom made any representations or warranties with respect to any aspect of their respective assets, liabilities or businesses. The Separation Agreement also set forth certain agreements between CBS Corp. and New Viacom with respect to the period following the Separation. The Separation Agreement was executed on December 19, 2005. Tax Matters Agreement. The Tax Matters Agreement sets forth the responsibilities of each of CBS Corp. and New Viacom with respect to, among other things, liabilities for federal, state, local and foreign income taxes for periods before and including the merger, the preparation and filing of income tax returns for such periods, disputes with taxing authorities regarding income taxes for such periods and indemnification for income taxes that would become due if the merger were taxable. Transition Services Agreement. In connection with the Separation Agreement, CBS Corp. provides New Viacom and New Viacom provides CBS Corp. with various support services for certain of their respective businesses including data center, payroll and uplink services for various periods subsequent to the date of Separation. No amounts have been reflected in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations as the Separation occurred on December 31, 2005. Other Related Parties The Company owned approximately 18% in Westwood One, Inc. ("Westwood One") as of December 31, 2005, which is accounted for as an equity investment. Most of CBS Radios stations are affiliated with Westwood One, and Westwood One distributes nationally certain of the Companys radio programming. In connection with these arrangements, the Company receives affiliation fees as well as programming cost reimbursements and, in certain instances, shares in revenue from the sale by Westwood One of CBS Radios programming. In addition, certain employees of CBS Radio serve as officers of Westwood One for which the Company receives a management fee. CBS Television also enters into programming agreements with Westwood One. Revenues from these arrangements were approximately $81.3 million, $82.6 million and $82.1 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The Company, through the normal course of business, is involved in transactions with other affiliated companies that have not been material in any of the periods presented. II 32   Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Recent Pronouncements In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154 "Accounting Changes and Error Corrections" ("SFAS 154"), a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20, "Accounting Changes", and FASB Statement No. 3, "Reporting Accounting Changes in Interim Financial Statements", effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. SFAS 154 changes the requirements for the accounting and reporting of a voluntary change in accounting principle as well as the changes required by an accounting pronouncement which does not include specific transition provisions. The Company does not expect the implementation of SFAS 154 to have a significant impact on the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. On April 14, 2005, the SEC issued a ruling that amended the effective date for implementing SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004) "Share Based Payment" ("SFAS 123R"). SFAS 123R revises SFAS No. 123 "Accounting for Stock based Compensation" ("SFAS 123") and supersedes APB Opinion No. 25 "Accounting for Stock Issues to Employees." SFAS 123R requires companies to measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments based on grant date fair value of the award. That cost will be recognized over the vesting period during which an employee is required to provide service in exchange for the award. Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted SFAS 123R and, accordingly, will recognize compensation cost for equity based compensation for all new or modified grants after the date of adoption. In addition, the Company will recognize the unvested portion of the grant date fair value of awards made prior to the adoption based on the fair values previously calculated for disclosure purposes. At December 31, 2005, the aggregate value of unvested options as determined using a Black Scholes option valuation model was $83.0 million, which will be expensed over the remaining vesting period of these options. On March 8, 2005, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company approved the acceleration of the vesting of unvested stock options having an exercise price of $38.00 (not adjusted for the Share Conversion) or greater granted under the Companys 2000 and 1997 Long Term Management Incentive Plans. Stock option awards granted from 1999 through 2004 are subject to this acceleration which was effective as of March 8, 2005. Since these options had exercise prices in excess of the then current market value and were not fully achieving their original objectives of incentive compensation and employee retention, the Company expected the acceleration to have a positive effect on employee morale, retention and perception of option value. The acceleration also eliminated future compensation expense the Company would otherwise recognize in its Consolidated Statements of Operations under SFAS 123R. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. Response to this is included in "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition Market Risk." II 33  
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions) Managements discussion and analysis of the results of operations and financial condition should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes. Descriptions of all documents incorporated by reference herein or included as exhibits hereto are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of such documents so incorporated or included. Please see Item 1A. Risk Factors in Part I of this report for the Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward Looking Statements and Risk Factors. Separation The separation of former Viacom Inc. ("Former Viacom") into two publicly traded entities, CBS Corporation (together with its consolidated subsidiaries unless the context otherwise requires, the "Company" or "CBS Corp.") and new Viacom Inc. ("New Viacom") was completed on December 31, 2005 (the "Separation"). The Separation was accomplished pursuant to a merger in which a subsidiary of Former Viacom was merged with and into Former Viacom, with Former Viacom continuing as the surviving entity. On December 31, 2005, Former Viacom was renamed "CBS Corporation" and each outstanding share of Former Viacom class A common stock was converted into the right to receive .5 of a share of CBS Corp. class A common stock, $0.001 par value ("Class A Common Stock"), and .5 of a share of New Viacom class A common stock and each outstanding share of Former Viacom class B common stock was converted into the right to receive .5 of a share of CBS Corp. class B common stock, $0.001 par value ("Class B Common Stock"), and .5 of a share of New Viacom class B common stock. As a result of the one share for .5 share conversion ("Share Conversion"), all Former Viacom share and per share data have been adjusted for all periods presented, unless otherwise indicated. The Companys Registration Statement on Form S 4 which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") on November 23, 2005 and was subsequently declared effective by the SEC further describes the Separation. In connection with the Separation, CBS Corp. and New Viacom entered into a separation agreement dated December 19, 2005, which is filed as an exhibit to this report (the "Separation Agreement"). In accordance with the terms of the Separation Agreement, New Viacom paid to the Company an estimated special dividend of $5.4 billion. Pursuant to the provisions of the Separation Agreement, the estimated special dividend is subject to adjustment. On March 14, 2006, the Company submitted to New Viacom an adjustment to increase the estimated special dividend in the amount of approximately $460 million. The Company and New Viacom have up to 65 days to agree upon the adjustment before any disputed amounts would become subject to a dispute resolution process. The Company and New Viacom entered into other agreements to govern certain of the ongoing relationships between the Company and New Viacom after the Separation including a transition services agreement and a tax matters agreement dated December 30, 2005, which is filed as an exhibit to this report (the "Tax Matters Agreement"). These arrangements are summarized in the "Related Parties" section of this report. Overview CBS Corp. is comprised of the following segments: Television (CBS Television Network, UPN, Showtime Networks, CBS Television Stations, CBS Paramount Television and King World), Radio (CBS Radio), Outdoor (CBS Outdoor) and Parks/Publishing (Paramount Parks and Simon & Schuster). CBS Corp. has accounted for the Separation as a spin off of New Viacom and accordingly, the results of New Viacom have been reflected as discontinued operations in the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements for all periods presented. New Viacom is comprised of the Cable Networks and Entertainment segments. Included within New Viacoms results were discontinued operations for Famous Players and Blockbuster Inc. ("Blockbuster"). Famous Players, a Canadian based theater chain, was sold for approximately $400 million in July 2005. Blockbuster was split off from Former Viacom in 2004. II 4   Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) CBS Corp. revenues for 2005 decreased slightly to $14.54 billion in 2005 versus $14.55 billion in 2004. Revenues reflected advertising revenue growth of $235.1 million, or 2%, led by growth of 2% in Television and 4% in Outdoor offset by a decline in television license fees. CBS Corp. reported an operating loss of $6.82 billion in 2005 versus an operating loss of $15.15 billion in 2004. Full year 2005 net loss from continuing operations was $8.32 billion, or a loss of $10.54 per diluted share, compared with a net loss from continuing operations of $16.39 billion, or a loss of $19.12 per diluted share, for 2004. Full year 2005 results included a non cash impairment charge of $9.48 billion, ($9.46 billion, net of tax or $11.98 per diluted share), to reduce the carrying amount of Television and Radio goodwill to their respective estimated fair values. Full year 2004 results included a non cash impairment charge of $18.0 billion, ($17.89 billion, net of tax or $20.87 per diluted share), to reduce the carrying amount of Radio and Outdoor goodwill and intangible assets to their respective estimated fair value. CBS Corp. operates in the following segments: TELEVISION: The Television segment consists of the CBS and UPN television networks, the Companys 39 owned broadcast television stations, Showtime Networks, and its television production and syndication business, including CBS Paramount Television and King World Productions. Television revenues are generated primarily from advertising sales, television license fees and affiliate fees. Television contributed 64%, 65% and 64%, respectively, to consolidated revenues for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. In January 2006, the Company completed its acquisition of CSTV Networks, Inc., ("CSTV") for approximately $325 million. Beginning in the first quarter of 2006, CSTVs results will be included as part of the Television segment. RADIO: The Radio segment owns and operates 179 radio stations in 40 U.S. markets through CBS Radio. Radio revenues are generated primarily from advertising sales. Radio contributed 15%, 14% and 15%, respectively, to consolidated revenues for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. OUTDOOR: The Outdoor segment, principally through CBS Outdoor, displays advertising on media including billboards, transit shelters, buses, rail systems (in car, station platforms and terminals), mall kiosks, masts and stadium signage. Outdoor revenues are generated primarily from advertising sales. Outdoor contributed 13% to consolidated revenues for each of the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. PARKS/PUBLISHING: This all other category includes Simon & Schusters consumer book publishing business with imprints such as Simon & Schuster, Pocket Books, Scribner and Free Press. Parks is principally engaged in the ownership and operation of five theme parks and a themed attraction in the U.S. and Canada. Parks/Publishing contributed 8% to consolidated revenues for each of the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. In January 2006, the Company announced its intention to divest Paramount Parks and to complete the divestiture in the second half of 2006. II 5 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Consolidated Results of Operations 2005 vs. 2004 and 2004 vs. 2003 Revenues The tables below present the Companys consolidated revenues by type, net of intercompany eliminations, for each of the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. Revenues by Type Year Ended December 31, 2005 2004 Increase/(Decrease) 2005 vs. 2004 2003 Increase/(Decrease) 2004 vs. 2003 Advertising sales $ 10,415.7 $ 10,180.6 $ 235.1 2 % $ 9,403.7 $ 776.9 8 % Television license fees 1,277.2 1,622.1 (344.9 ) (21 ) 1,583.0 39.1 2 Affiliate fees 992.1 968.5 23.6 2 959.3 9.2 1 Publishing 763.6 750.9 12.7 2 693.5 57.4 8 Parks operations 423.5 409.9 13.6 3 375.8 34.1 9 Other 664.3 615.3 49.0 8 539.2 76.1 14 Total Revenues $ 14,536.4 $ 14,547.3 $ (10.9 ) % $ 13,554.5 $ 992.8 7 % Year Ended December 31, Percentage of Revenues by Type 2005 2004 2003 Advertising sales 72 % 70 % 69 % Television license fees 9 11 12 Affiliate fees 7 7 7 Publishing 5 5 5 Parks operations 3 3 3 Other 4 4 4 Total 100 % 100 % 100 % Advertising sales increased 2% in 2005 to $10.42 billion from $10.18 billion in 2004 reflecting growth in the Television, Outdoor and Radio segments. Televisions advertising increased 2% reflecting the strength in CBS/UPN primetime partially offset by the prior year telecast of the Super Bowl on CBS Network and lower political advertising. Outdoor advertising increased 4% reflecting a 6% increase in revenues from North American properties. Radio advertising increased 1% reflecting growth in local advertising. In 2004, advertising sales increased 8% to $10.18 billion from $9.40 billion in 2003 reflecting growth in Television, benefiting from the telecast of the Super Bowl on CBS Network and higher political advertising, and in Outdoor. Television license fees decreased 21% to $1.28 billion in 2005 from $1.62 billion in 2004 principally reflecting the absence of revenues from the prior year basic cable availability of Star Trek: Deep Space Nine and the absence of license fees for Frasier, which is no longer in production. Television license fees increased 2% to $1.62 billion in 2004 from $1.58 billion in 2003 principally relating to the mix of shows available for syndication, partially offset by lower network revenues for shows no longer in production. Affiliate fees increased 2% to $992.1 million in 2005 from $968.5 million in 2004 driven by rate increases and subscriber growth at Showtime Networks. Affiliate fees increased 1% to $968.5 million in 2004 from $959.3 million in 2003. Publishing revenues increased 2% to $763.6 million in 2005 and increased 8% to $750.9 million in 2004 versus the comparable prior year periods. The increases were primarily driven by the success of top selling titles. II 6 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Parks operations revenues increased 3% to $423.5 million in 2005 from $409.9 million in 2004 primarily due to increased attendance and higher average per capita spending. Parks operations revenues increased 9% to $409.9 million in 2004 from $375.8 million in 2003 due to increased attendance and the benefit of favorable foreign currency translation, partially offset by decreased average per capita spending. Other revenues, which include home entertainment revenues from television and cable product sales, and royalties and fees, increased 8% to $664.3 million in 2005 from $615.3 million in 2004 primarily reflecting growth in home entertainment revenues of $29.6 million from the mix of available DVD releases and other revenues from acquired companies. For 2004, other revenues increased 14% to $615.3 million from $539.2 million in 2003 primarily reflecting growth in home entertainment revenues of $73.9 million due to the availability of DVD releases. International Revenues The Company generated approximately 12% of its total revenues from international regions in 2005, and 11% in 2004 and 2003. Year Ended December 31, 2005 Percentage of Total 2004 Percentage of Total 2003 Percentage of Total United Kingdom $ 491.2 28 % $ 459.9 28 % $ 255.6 18 % Other Europe 666.8 39 605.7 38 667.9 46 Canada 376.6 22 345.9 21 259.5 18 All other 196.9 11 206.2 13 266.5 18 Total International Revenues $ 1,731.5 100 % $ 1,617.7 100 % $ 1,449.5 100 % Operating Expenses The table below presents the Companys consolidated operating expenses by type: Operating Expenses by Type Year Ended December 31, 2005 2004 Increase/ (Decrease) 2005 vs. 2004 2003 Increase/ (Decrease) 2004 vs. 2003 Programming $ 3,453.2 $ 3,441.8 $ 11.4 % $ 3,080.3 $ 361.5 12% Production 2,453.5 2,584.7 (131.2 ) (5 ) 2,661.9 (77.2 ) (3) Outdoor operations 1,134.2 1,102.7 31.5 3 1,012.6 90.1 9 Publishing operations 525.0 517.6 7.4 1 486.3 31.3 6 Parks operations 243.8 232.7 11.1 5 212.2 20.5 10 Other 862.1 764.1 98.0 13 712.1 52.0 7 Total Operating Expenses $ 8,671.8 $ 8,643.6 $ 28.2 % $ 8,165.4 $ 478.2 6% For 2005, operating expenses of $8.67 billion increased slightly over $8.64 billion in 2004. For 2004, operating expenses of $8.64 billion increased 6% over $8.17 billion in 2003. The major components and changes in operating expenses were as follows: Programming expenses represented approximately 40% of total operating expenses in 2005 and 2004 and 38% in 2003, and reflect the amortization of acquired rights of programs exhibited on the broadcast and cable networks, and television and radio stations. Programming expenses increased slightly to $3.45 billion in 2005 from $3.44 billion in 2004 principally reflecting higher costs for Showtime Networks theatrical titles. Programming expenses II 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) increased 12% to $3.44 billion in 2004 from $3.08 billion in 2003 reflecting higher program rights expenses for sports events and primetime series at the broadcast networks. Production expenses represented approximately 28% of total operating expenses in 2005, 30% in 2004 and 33% in 2003, and reflect the cost and amortization of internally developed television programs, including direct production costs, residuals and participation expenses, and production overhead, as well as television and radio costs including on air talent and other production costs. Production expenses decreased 5% to $2.45 billion in 2005 from $2.58 billion in 2004 principally reflecting lower network costs due to the absence of Frasier partially offset by increased costs for new network series. Production expenses decreased 3% to $2.58 billion in 2004 from $2.66 billion in 2003 reflecting fewer network series produced in 2004 partially offset by higher news costs for political campaign coverage. Outdoor operations costs represented approximately 13% of total operating expenses in 2005 and 2004, and 12% in 2003, and reflect transit and billboard lease, maintenance, posting and rotation expenses. Outdoor operations expenses increased 3% to $1.13 billion in 2005 from $1.10 billion in 2004 principally reflecting higher billboard lease costs and maintenance costs associated with the impact of hurricanes in 2005. Outdoor operations costs increased 9% to $1.10 billion in 2004 from $1.01 billion in 2003 primarily reflecting higher transit and billboard lease costs. Publishing operations costs, which represented approximately 6% of total operating expenses in each of the years 2005, 2004 and 2003, reflect cost of book sales, royalties and other costs incurred with respect to publishing operations. Publishing operations expenses for 2005 increased 1% to $525.0 million and increased 6% to $517.6 million in 2004 from $486.3 million in 2003 primarily due to higher revenues. Parks operations costs, which represented approximately 3% of total operating expenses in each of the years 2005, 2004 and 2003, increased 5% to $243.8 million in 2005 from $232.7 million in 2004 principally reflecting the cost of fourth quarter 2005 winter events held at the parks and the impact of foreign currency translation. In 2004, Parks operations costs increased 10% to $232.7 million from $212.2 million in 2003 primarily from the impact of foreign currency translation. Other operating expenses, which represented approximately 10% of total operating expenses in 2005 and 9% in 2004 and 2003, primarily include distribution costs incurred with respect to television product, costs associated with digital media and compensation. Other operating expenses increased 13% to $862.1 million in 2005 from $764.1 million in 2004 primarily reflecting a 10% increase in distribution costs due to the DVD release of Charmed and increased costs associated with digital media from the inclusion of SportsLine.com, Inc. ("SportsLine.com") since its acquisition in December 2004. Other operating expenses for 2004 increased 7% to $764.1 million in 2004 from $712.1 million in 2003 principally reflecting 15% higher distribution costs due to additional volume of DVD releases of the Star Trek series and higher compensation. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") expenses which include expenses incurred for selling and marketing costs, occupancy and back office support, were approximately 19% of revenues for 2005 and 18% of revenues for 2004 and 2003. SG&A expenses increased $146.9 million, or 6%, to $2.70 billion in 2005 from $2.55 billion in 2004, primarily reflecting transition costs and professional fees related to the II 8 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Separation, higher employee compensation, advertising, marketing and incremental SG&A from SportsLine.com. Also included in 2005 and 2004 expenses are severance charges of $11.3 million and $28.1 million, respectively. Advertising expenses of $369.1 million, included in SG&A expenses, increased 3% reflecting increased spending primarily at Radio and Television. For 2004, SG&A expenses increased $176.4 million, or 7%, to $2.55 billion from $2.38 billion in 2003 reflecting higher employee compensation and commissions, 2004 severance charges of $28.1 million due to management changes and the absence of a 2003 pre tax gain of $40 million from the settlement of a physical damage and business interruption claim. Advertising expenses of $358.4 million, included in SG&A expenses, increased 8% reflecting increased spending primarily at Radio. Included within SG&A expenses are residual costs, which primarily include pension and postretirement benefit costs for benefit plans retained by the Company for previously divested businesses. Residual costs for 2005 increased to $118.7 million from $113.8 million in 2004 primarily due to a lower discount rate. Residual costs decreased to $113.8 million in 2004 from $146.5 million in 2003 principally due to the recognition of lower actuarial losses resulting from better than expected performance of plan assets in 2003. Impairment Charges SFAS 142 requires the Company to perform an annual fair value based impairment test of goodwill. The Company performed its annual impairment test as of October 31, 2005 concurrently with its annual budgeting process which begins in the fourth quarter each year. The first step of the test examines whether or not the book value of each of the Companys reporting units exceeds its fair value. If the book value for a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step of the test is required to compare the implied fair value of that reporting units goodwill with the book value of the goodwill. The Companys reporting units are generally consistent with or one level below the operating segments underlying the reportable segments. As a result of the 2005 annual impairment test, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $9.48 billion in the fourth quarter of 2005. The $9.48 billion reflects charges to reduce the carrying value of goodwill at the CBS Television reporting unit of $6.44 billion and the Radio reporting unit of $3.05 billion. During 2005, traded values decreased for both the television and radio broadcasting industries. Broadcast advertising spending is closely correlated to the U.S. economy, which has been negatively impacted by, among other things, higher interest rates and energy prices. In addition, a reduction in advertising spending in certain business sectors led to a reduction in forecasted cash flows and long term growth rates. As a result, the Company reduced its revenue, operating profit and cash flow projections for the CBS Television and Radio reporting units to reflect current market conditions. The estimated fair value of the CBS Television and Radio reporting units were computed principally based upon the present value of future cash flows (Discounted Cash Flow Method) and both the traded and transaction values of comparable businesses (Market Comparable Method). The Discounted Cash Flow Method and Market Comparable Method were weighted equally and resulted in substantially equal fair values. As a result of the annual impairment test performed for 2004, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $18.0 billion in the fourth quarter of 2004. The $18.0 billion reflects charges to reduce the carrying value of goodwill at the Radio reporting unit of $10.94 billion and the Outdoor reporting unit of $7.06 billion as well as a reduction of the carrying value of intangible assets of $27.8 million related to the FCC licenses at the Radio segment. Several factors led to a reduction in forecasted cash flows and long term growth rates for both the Radio and Outdoor reporting units. Radio and Outdoor both fell short of budgeted revenue and operating income growth targets in 2004. Competition from other advertising II 9 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) media, including Internet advertising and cable and broadcast television reduced Radio and Outdoor growth rates. Also, the emergence of new competitors and technologies necessitated a shift in managements strategy for the Radio and Outdoor businesses, including changes in composition of the sales force and operating management as well as increased levels of investment in marketing and promotion. Depreciation and Amortization For 2005, depreciation and amortization decreased 2% to $498.7 million from $508.6 million primarily reflecting lower depreciation expense for outdoor advertising properties. For 2004, depreciation and amortization increased 1% to $508.6 million from $501.7 million. Interest Expense For 2005, interest expense increased 4% to $720.5 million from $694.0 million primarily due to higher average bank debt and commercial paper borrowings, and higher interest rates partially offset by lower average fixed rate debt balances. For 2004, interest expense decreased 3% to $694.0 million from $716.1 million in 2003 primarily due to lower average debt balances in 2004, including commercial paper borrowings, and lower interest on programming contracts. Proceeds from the special cash dividend of $5.4 billion received from New Viacom were used to repay outstanding commercial paper, debt outstanding under revolving credit facilities and certain fixed rate debt upon maturity in January 2006. As a result of lower debt, interest expense is expected to decrease significantly in 2006 as compared with 2005. The Company had approximately $8.05 billion at December 31, 2005 and $9.92 billion at December 31, 2004 of principal amount of debt outstanding (including discontinued operations and current maturities) at weighted average interest rates of 6.9% and 6.7%, respectively. Interest Income For 2005, interest income decreased by $.4 million to $21.4 million. For 2004, interest income increased by $12.6 million to $21.8 million from $9.2 million primarily due to increased cash and cash equivalents. Other Items, Net For 2005, "Other items, net" of $5.3 million principally reflected a net gain of $86.2 million from the sale of investments and businesses, and foreign exchange gains of $10.9 million, partially offset by losses associated with securitizing trade receivables of $23.8 million and a non cash charge of $67.9 million to reflect other than temporary declines in the market value of certain radio investments. For 2004, "Other items, net" of $25.1 million principally reflected foreign exchange gains of $25.9 million and a net gain from the sale of investments and businesses of $32.5 million, partially offset by a non cash charge of $21.7 million associated with other than temporary declines in the Companys investments and losses associated with securitizing trade receivables of $11.6 million. For 2003, "Other items, net" of $21.4 million principally consisted of foreign exchange gains of $14.8 million, net gains from the sale of investments of $14.8 million and an insurance recoupment of $5.6 million partially offset by losses of $9.1 million associated with securitizing trade receivables and a non cash charge of approximately $5.0 million associated with other than temporary declines in the market value of several investments. II 10   Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Provision for Income Taxes The provision for income taxes represents federal, state and local, and foreign income taxes on earnings (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes, equity in earnings (loss) of affiliated companies, minority interest and cumulative effect of accounting changes. The annual effective tax rate was (10.8%) in 2005 versus (3.9%) in 2004 and 39.8% in 2003. Included in the 2005 and 2004 rates was the impact of the non cash impairment charges. Also included in the 2004 rate was the impact of severance charges and the recognition of a tax benefit from the resolution of certain income tax audits in 2004. Equity in Earnings (Loss) of Affiliated Companies, Net of Tax "Equity in earnings (loss) of affiliated companies, net of tax" reflected a net loss of $1.5 million for 2005, earnings of $19.2 million for 2004 and earnings of $18.3 million for 2003. For 2005, the loss principally reflected a non cash charge associated with an other than temporary decline in a radio investment partially offset by earnings from affiliated companies. For 2004 and 2003, results principally reflected positive results from affiliated companies, partially offset by losses from Internet investments. Minority Interest, Net of Tax Minority interest primarily represents the minority ownership of certain international entities. Net Earnings (Loss) from Continuing Operations before Cumulative Effect of Accounting Changes The Company reported net earnings (loss) from continuing operations before cumulative effect of accounting changes of $(8.32) billion in 2005 versus $(16.39) billion in 2004 and $1.12 billion in 2003. The loss in 2005 was driven by the non cash impairment charge for goodwill of $9.48 billion. The loss in 2004 was driven by the non cash impairment charge for goodwill and intangible assets of $18.0 billion. Net Earnings from Discontinued Operations The businesses of New Viacom have been presented as discontinued operations in CBS Corp.s consolidated financial statements for all periods presented. Included within New Viacoms results were discontinued operations for Famous Players and Blockbuster. Famous Players, a Canadian based theater chain, was sold for approximately $400 million in July 2005. Blockbuster was split off from Former Viacom in 2004. The following tables set forth the detail of CBS Corp.s net earnings from discontinued operations, which are comprised of both New Viacoms results from continuing operations and their discontinued businesses, Famous Players and Blockbuster. Additionally, Eliminations/Other include eliminations between CBS Corp. and New Viacom, and aircraft financing leases that are generally expected to liquidate in accordance with contractual terms. II 11 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Year Ended December 31, 2005 New Viacom Famous Players Eliminations/ Other Total Revenues from discontinued operations $ 9,609.6 $ 208.0 $ (328.5 ) $ 9,489.1 Earnings (loss) from discontinued operations $ 2,327.7 $ (25.1 ) $ 16.3 $ 2,318.9 Loss on disposal of discontinued operations (72.9 ) (72.9 ) Minority interest (6.6 ) (1.6 ) (8.2 ) 2,321.1 (99.6 ) 16.3 2,237.8 Income tax (provision) benefit, net of minority interest (1,017.2 ) 52.7 (40.6 ) (1,005.1 ) Net earnings (loss) from discontinued operations $ 1,303.9 $ (46.9 ) $ (24.3 ) $ 1,232.7 Year Ended December 31, 2004 New Viacom Blockbuster Famous Players Eliminations/ Other Total Revenues from discontinued operations $ 8,132.2 $ 4,528.9 $ 392.5 $ (535.6 ) $ 12,518.0 Earnings (loss) from discontinued operations $ 2,204.2 $ (1,404.2 ) $ (11.6 ) $ (86.0 ) $ 702.4 Loss on disposal of discontinued operations (38.2 ) (38.2 ) Minority interest (4.7 ) 259.7 (2.2 ) 252.8 2,199.5 (1,182.7 ) (13.8 ) (86.0 ) 917.0 Income tax (provision) benefit, net of minority interest (806.6 ) 92.4 4.9 34.4 (674.9 ) Net earnings (loss) from discontinued operations $ 1,392.9 $ (1,090.3 ) $ (8.9 ) $ (51.6 ) $ 242.1 Year Ended December 31, 2003 New Viacom Blockbuster Famous Players Eliminations/ Other Total Revenues from discontinued operations $ 7,304.4 $ 5,911.7 $ 386.9 $ (408.0 ) $ 13,195.0 Earnings (loss) from discontinued operations $ 1,938.0 $ (878.8 ) $ 1.0 $ (43.8 ) $ 1,016.4 Minority interest (4.5 ) 160.0 (1.6 ) 153.9 1,933.5 (718.8 ) (.6 ) (43.8 ) 1,170.3 Income tax (provision) benefit, net of minority interest (786.1 ) (83.6 ) .2 17.7 (851.8 ) Net earnings (loss) from discontinued operations $ 1,147.4 $ (802.4 ) $ (.4 ) $ (26.1 ) $ 318.5 Included in discontinued operations in 2004 and 2003 are non cash impairment charges of $1.5 billion ($1.2 billion net of minority interest and tax) and $1.3 billion ($1.0 billion, net of minority interest and tax), respectively, for the impairment of Blockbuster goodwill and other long lived assets in accordance with SFAS 142 and SFAS No. 144 "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets" ("SFAS 144"). Cumulative Effect of Accounting Changes, Net of Minority Interest and Tax Effective December 31, 2004, the Company elected early adoption of Emerging Issues Task Force Topic No. D 108 "Use of the Residual Method to Value Acquired Assets Other Than Goodwill" ("D 108"). D 108 requires companies who have applied the residual value method in the valuation of intangible assets for purposes of impairment testing to use the direct value method. As a result of the II 12 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) adoption, the Company recorded a charge of $2.2 billion ($1.3 billion net of tax), or $1.53 per diluted share, to reduce the intangible assets balance attributable to its television stations FCC licenses. This charge has been reflected as a cumulative effect of accounting change. For 2003, the cumulative effect of accounting change, net of minority interest and tax, of $18.5 million, or $.02 per diluted share, resulted from the adoption of SFAS No. 143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations." Net Earnings (Loss) For 2005, the Company reported a net loss of $7.09 billion versus $17.46 billion in 2004 and net earnings of $1.42 billion in 2003. For 2005 and 2004, the loss was driven by the non cash impairment charges of $9.48 billion in 2005 and $18.0 billion in 2004. For 2004 and 2003, net earnings (loss) also reflected an after tax non cash charge of $1.2 billion and $1.0 billion, respectively, reflected in discontinued operations. Segment Results of Operations For the Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 The tables below present the Companys revenues, Segment operating income before depreciation and amortization and SFAS 142 impairment charges ("Segment OIBDA before SFAS 142 Impairment Charges"), operating income (loss), and depreciation and amortization by segment, for each of the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. Year Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Revenues: Television $ 9,325.2 $ 9,448.5 $ 8,680.5 Radio 2,114.8 2,096.1 2,097.6 Outdoor 1,949.3 1,880.2 1,748.3 Parks/Publishing 1,187.1 1,160.8 1,069.3 Eliminations (40.0 ) (38.3 ) (41.2 ) Total Revenues $ 14,536.4 $ 14,547.3 $ 13,554.5 II 13 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Segment OIBDA before SFAS 142 Impairment Charges(a): Television $ 1,824.7 $ 1,981.2 $ 1,656.5 Radio 925.0 948.2 1,002.4 Outdoor 469.9 453.9 423.8 Parks/Publishing 184.8 180.2 148.1 Corporate (120.5 ) (98.5 ) (71.3 ) Residual costs (118.7 ) (113.8 ) (146.5 ) SFAS 142 impairment charges (b) (9,484.4 ) (17,997.1 ) Depreciation and amortization (498.7 ) (508.6 ) (501.7 ) Operating Income (Loss) $ (6,817.9 ) $ (15,154.5 ) $ 2,511.3 Operating Income (Loss): Television (b) $ (4,791.5 ) $ 1,807.5 $ 1,481.5 Radio (b) (2,154.1 ) (10,023.5 ) 975.0 Outdoor (b) 260.5 (6,824.5 ) 207.9 Parks/Publishing 117.6 111.2 77.5 Corporate (131.7 ) (111.4 ) (84.1 ) Residual costs (118.7 ) (113.8 ) (146.5 ) Total Operating Income (Loss) $ (6,817.9 ) $ (15,154.5 ) $ 2,511.3 Depreciation and Amortization: Television $ 178.8 $ 173.7 $ 175.0 Radio 32.1 29.9 27.4 Outdoor 209.4 223.1 215.9 Parks/Publishing 67.2 69.0 70.6 Corporate 11.2 12.9 12.8 Total Depreciation and Amortization $ 498.7 $ 508.6 $ 501.7 (a)The Company presents Segment OIBDA before SFAS 142 Impairment Charges as the primary measure of profit and loss for its operating segments in accordance with SFAS 131 "Disclosure about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information" ("SFAS 131"). The Company believes the presentation of Segment OIBDA before SFAS 142 Impairment Charges is relevant and useful for investors because it allows investors to view segment performance in a manner similar to the method used by the Companys management and enhances their ability to understand the Companys operating performance. The reconciliation of Segment OIBDA before SFAS 142 Impairment Charges to the Companys consolidated Net earnings (loss) is presented in Note 15 (Reportable Segments) to the Consolidated Financial Statements. (b)As a result of the Companys annual goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets impairment test, non cash charges of $9.48 billion and $18.0 billion were recorded in 2005 and 2004, respectively, to reduce the carrying value of goodwill in 2005 and goodwill and intangible assets in 2004. The 2005 charge of $9.48 billion is comprised of $6.44 billion for Television and $3.05 billion for Radio. The 2004 charge of $18.0 billion is comprised of $10.94 billion for Radio and $7.06 billion for Outdoor. II 14 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Segment Results of Operations 2005 vs. 2004 and 2004 vs. 2003 Television (CBS and UPN Television Networks and Stations, Television Production and Syndication, and Showtime Networks, owner of several premium subscription television program services) (Contributed 64% of consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005, 65% for the year ended December 31, 2004 and 64% for the year ended December 31, 2003.) Year Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Revenues $ 9,325.2 $ 9,448.5 $ 8,680.5 OIBDA before SFAS 142 impairment charge $ 1,824.7 $ 1,981.2 $ 1,656.5 SFAS 142 impairment charge (6,437.4 ) Depreciation and amortization (178.8 ) (173.7 ) (175.0 ) Operating income (loss) $ (4,791.5 ) $ 1,807.5 $ 1,481.5 Operating income as a % of revenues NM 19 % 17% Capital expenditures $ 197.2 $ 118.5 $ 115.6 NM Not meaningful 2005 vs. 2004 For 2005, Television revenues decreased $123.3 million, or 1%, to $9.33 billion as advertising revenue growth of 2% was more than offset by lower television license fee revenues. CBS and UPN combined advertising increased 4% with a 7% increase in primetime due to 6% average rate increases, partially offset by a decline in sports from the absence of the Super Bowl. For 2005, the Stations group advertising revenues decreased 2% as 2004 advertising revenues benefited from political spending in a presidential election year and the telecast of the Super Bowl on CBS. Excluding the impact of the Super Bowl and political advertising, the Stations group advertising revenues increased 2%. Television license fee revenues for 2005 decreased 21% reflecting lower domestic syndication and network revenues. Domestic syndication revenues decreased as contributions from 2005 availabilities, including the Insider, Becker and Diagnosis Murder, did not match prior year contributions from Star Trek: Deep Space Nine, Frasier and Hollywood Squares. Network revenues were lower due to the absence of revenues from the series Frasier which is no longer in production. Affiliate fees at Showtime Networks increased 2% principally reflecting rate increases and growth in subscribers. For 2005, Television reported an operating loss of $4.79 billion, which included a non cash impairment charge of $6.44 billion to reduce the carrying amount of goodwill. Television OIBDA before SFAS 142 Impairment Charge decreased 8% to $1.82 billion in 2005 from $1.98 billion in 2004 reflecting the decrease in revenues noted above and higher SG&A expenses partially offset by lower operating expenses. Operating expenses, primarily comprised of production and programming expenses, decreased 1%, or $56.6 million, to $6.22 billion principally due to lower production costs for network series and the absence of prior year costs for the Super Bowl. SG&A expenses increased 8% to $1.28 billion primarily due to higher advertising and promotion and the inclusion of expenses for SportsLine.com, acquired in December 2004. Included in 2005 SG&A expenses is a severance charge of $11.3 million for organizational changes at Showtime Networks. Capital expenditures increased $78.7 million to $197.2 million in 2005 from $118.5 million in 2004, principally reflecting increased spending for broadcasting equipment. II 15 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) License fees for completed television programming in syndication and on cable are recorded as revenues in the period that the products are available for exhibition, which, among other reasons, may cause substantial fluctuation in operating results. Unrecognized revenues attributable to such licensing agreements were approximately $788.1 million and $728.9 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. 2004 vs. 2003 For 2004, Television revenues increased $768.0 million, or 9%, to $9.45 billion principally driven by advertising revenue growth at the broadcast networks and the Stations group and higher television license fee revenues. CBS and UPN Networks combined advertising revenues increased 12% with an 11% increase in CBS and UPN primetime due to 11% average rate increases. CBS Network and the Stations group advertising revenues benefited from the 2004 telecast of Super Bowl XXXVIII. The combination of the Super Bowl and increased political advertising contributed 3% of Televisions total revenue growth. For 2004, the Stations group advertising revenues increased 10% reflecting higher political advertising with more units sold at higher average unit rates. The Stations group also benefited from higher ad sales in the automotive, leisure and media, and restaurant industries. Television revenues in 2004 included an increase in television license fee revenues of 2% benefiting from the basic cable availability of Star Trek: Deep Space Nine, the initial domestic syndication of CSI and the renewal by incumbent stations of Everybody Loves Raymond, partially offset by lower network revenues for shows no longer in production including Frasier. Home entertainment revenues increased due to the DVD releases of Star Trek: Voyager and Star Trek: Original Series. Showtime Networks affiliate revenues increased 1%. For 2004, Television operating income increased $326.0 million, or 22%, to $1.81 billion and Television OIBDA before SFAS 142 Impairment Charge increased $324.7 million, or 20%, to $1.98 billion principally due to the revenue increases noted above partially offset by higher expenses. Total expenses increased 6% in 2004 primarily due to higher production and programming expenses and higher SG&A expenses. Production costs and programming expenses increased 5% reflecting higher program rights expense for sports events and primetime series. Included in SG&A expenses was a severance charge of $10.4 million recorded in the second quarter of 2004 related to a management change. Television operating income in 2003 included approximately $27 million in insurance recoveries. Operating income as a percentage of revenues was 19% in 2004 versus 17% in 2003. II 16 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Radio (CBS Radio) (Contributed 15% of consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005, 14% for the year ended December 31, 2004 and 15% for the year ended December 31, 2003.) Year Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Revenues $ 2,114.8 $ 2,096.1 $ 2,097.6 OIBDA before SFAS 142 impairment charges $ 925.0 $ 948.2 $ 1,002.4 SFAS 142 impairment charges (3,047.0 ) (10,941.8 ) Depreciation and amortization (32.1 ) (29.9 ) (27.4 ) Operating income (loss) $ (2,154.1 ) $ (10,023.5 ) $ 975.0 Operating income as a % of revenues NM NM 46% Capital expenditures $ 37.7 $ 38.2 $ 14.1 NM Not meaningful 2005 vs. 2004 Radios revenues are generated domestically from 179 radio stations. For 2005, Radio revenues increased 1% to $2.11 billion reflecting 2% growth in local radio advertising partially offset by a 1% decrease in national advertising. Advertising revenues reflected an increase in average unit rates partially offset by a decline in the units sold. The top 10 markets were up 3% and the top 20 markets were up 2% in advertising revenues, led by increases in Los Angeles, Philadelphia and Atlanta. Radio receives consideration for management services provided to Westwood One, an affiliated company. Revenues from these arrangements were approximately $63.4 million for 2005 versus $65.9 million for 2004. For 2005, Radio reported an operating loss of $2.15 billion compared with an operating loss of $10.02 billion in 2004, which included non cash impairment charges of $3.05 billion and $10.94 billion in 2005 and 2004, respectively, to reduce goodwill and intangible assets. Radio OIBDA before SFAS 142 Impairment Charges decreased 2% to $925.0 million in 2005 from $948.2 million in 2004 reflecting increases in operating and SG&A expenses, partially offset by the revenue increases noted above. Operating expenses, primarily comprised of radio programming and production expenses increased 7% to $548.7 million in 2005 from $513.9 million in 2004 primarily due to increased talent costs, higher music licensing, and increased programming costs and sports rights. SG&A expenses increased 1% to $641.0 million in 2005 from $634.0 million in 2004 primarily reflecting the gain on sale of FCC licenses of $14.6 million in 2005 versus $30.9 million in 2004, partially offset by lower bad debt expense in 2005. As a result of changes in morning show programming at 27 owned radio stations, the Company anticipates flat to slightly lower Radio revenues and expenses in 2006. 2004 vs. 2003 For 2004, Radio revenues were relatively flat at $2.10 billion reflecting continued weakness in national and local radio advertising revenues in part due to increased competition from other advertising media. Advertising revenues reflected a decline in the units sold, partially offset by an increase in average unit rates and higher affiliated revenues. Revenues from Westwood One were approximately $65.9 million for 2004 versus $64.3 million for 2003. II 17 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) For 2004, Radio reported an operating loss of $10.02 billion, which included a $10.94 billion non cash impairment charge to reduce goodwill and intangible assets. Radio OIBDA before SFAS 142 Impairment Charge decreased 5% to $948.2 million in 2004 from $1.0 billion in 2003, reflecting higher operating and SG&A expenses. Operating expenses increased 5% to $513.9 million in 2004 from $489.7 million in 2003 reflecting higher contractual talent costs. SG&A expenses increased 5% to $634.0 million in 2004 from $605.5 million in 2003 reflecting higher advertising, promotion and employee related expenses. Outdoor (CBS Outdoor) (Contributed 13% of consolidated revenues for each of the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003.) Year Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Revenues $ 1,949.3 $ 1,880.2 $ 1,748.3 OIBDA before SFAS 142 impairment charge $ 469.9 $ 453.9 $ 423.8 SFAS 142 impairment charge (7,055.3 ) Depreciation and amortization (209.4 ) (223.1 ) (215.9 ) Operating income (loss) $ 260.5 $ (6,824.5 ) $ 207.9 Operating income as a % of revenues 13 % NM 12% Capital expenditures $ 68.4 $ 56.5 $ 58.1 NM Not meaningful 2005 vs 2004 For 2005, Outdoor revenues increased 4% to $1.95 billion from $1.88 billion, principally due to a 6% increase from its North American properties, reflecting an 18% increase in Mexico, a 16% increase in Canadian properties and a 4% increase in U.S. billboards and displays. European revenues were flat year over year, primarily reflecting growth in the U.K. offset by a decline in Italy due to the loss of a component of the Italian transit contract in 2004. The impact of foreign exchange translation on revenues in 2005 was approximately $8 million in additional revenues, primarily in Canada. In constant dollars, Canadas revenues increased 8%. Approximately 45% of Outdoor revenues were generated from international regions, principally Europe, for both 2005 and 2004. Operating income increased to $260.5 million in 2005 from a loss of $6.82 billion in 2004, which included a non cash impairment charge of $7.06 billion to reduce goodwill. Outdoor OIBDA before SFAS 142 Impairment Charge increased 4% to $469.9 million in 2005 from $453.9 million in 2004, reflecting the revenue increases noted above partially offset by higher operating and SG&A expenses. Operating expenses increased 3% to $1.13 billion in 2005 from $1.10 billion in 2004, reflecting higher billboard lease costs and maintenance expenses, partially offset by lower transit lease costs. SG&A expenses increased 7% to $345.2 million in 2005 from $323.6 million in 2004 primarily reflecting higher employee related expenses. Revenues and operating income were negatively impacted by $11 million and $28 million, respectively, in 2005 due to hurricanes. II 18 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) 2004 vs. 2003 For 2004, Outdoor revenues increased 8% to $1.88 billion from $1.75 billion reflecting a 14% increase from its European properties and a 4% increase in North America. North American properties reflected a 16% increase in Canadian revenues and a 5% increase in U.S. billboards revenues, partially offset by a decrease of 11% in Mexico. Revenue growth from the European properties benefited from favorable foreign exchange rates. The impact of foreign exchange translation on revenues was approximately $68 million, or four percentage points of the increase for the year. Approximately 45% of Outdoor revenues were generated from international regions, principally Europe, in 2004 versus 43% in 2003. For 2004, Outdoor reported an operating loss of $6.82 billion, which included the $7.06 billion non cash impairment charge, versus operating income of $207.9 million in 2003. Outdoor OIBDA before SFAS 142 Impairment Charge increased 7% to $453.9 million in 2004 from $423.8 million in 2003 reflecting higher revenues partially offset by higher operating and SG&A expenses. Operating expenses increased 9% due to higher transit and billboard lease costs, as well as the impact of foreign exchange translation. SG&A expenses increased 4% primarily due to higher employee related expenses. Parks/Publishing (Theme Parks Operations and Consumer Book Publishing) (Contributed 8% to consolidated revenues for each of the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003.) Year Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Revenues $ 1,187.1 $ 1,160.8 $ 1,069.3 OIBDA $ 184.8 $ 180.2 $ 148.1 Depreciation and amortization (67.2 ) (69.0 ) (70.6 ) Operating income $ 117.6 $ 111.2 $ 77.5 Capital expenditures $ 52.8 $ 48.9 $ 46.2 2005 vs. 2004 For 2005, Parks/Publishing revenues increased 2% to $1.19 billion in 2005 from $1.16 billion in 2004, reflecting higher revenues at both Parks and Publishing. Parks revenues increased 3%, driven by a 2% increase in attendance and a 1% increase in per capita spending. Parks also benefited from favorable foreign currency translation in 2005. Publishing revenues increased 2% primarily due to several top selling 2005 titles including 1776 by David McCullough, Love Smart by Dr. Phil C. McGraw and Teacher Man by Frank McCourt, as well as 5% growth in the Childrens group led by the performance of series titles, such as Dora the Explorer and Peanuts. Revenues from the Audio group increased 14% in 2005. For 2005, Parks/Publishing operating income increased 6% to $117.6 million from $111.2 million and OIBDA increased 3% to $184.8 million from $180.2 million, primarily due to the revenue increases noted above, partially offset by higher operating and SG&A expenses. Operating expenses increased 2%, reflecting a 4% increase at Parks and a 1% increase at Publishing. SG&A expenses increased 3% reflecting a 4% increase at Publishing, primarily due to higher advertising, selling and marketing costs, partially offset by a 1% decrease at Parks. II 19 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) 2004 vs. 2003 For 2004, Parks/Publishing revenues increased 9% to $1.16 billion from $1.07 billion reflecting higher revenues at both Parks and Publishing. Parks revenues increased 9%, driven by a 12% increase in attendance partially offset by a 2% decline in per capita spending. In 2004, Parks benefited from favorable foreign currency translation. Publishing revenues increased 8% primarily due to several top selling titles including Angels & Demons by Dan Brown and Family First by Dr. Phil C. McGraw. For 2004, Parks/Publishing operating income increased 43% to $111.2 million from $77.5 million and OIBDA increased 22% to $180.2 million from $148.1 million, primarily due to the revenue increases noted above, partially offset by a 7% increase in operating expenses and a 3% increase in SG&A expenses. Financial Position Current assets decreased by $698.0 million to $6.80 billion at December 31, 2005 from $7.49 billion at December 31, 2004 primarily due to a $2.36 billion decrease in current assets of discontinued operations reflecting the spin off of New Viacom. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in cash and cash equivalents of $877.1 million, receivables of $256.7 million, inventory of $226.6 million and deferred tax assets of $267.4 million. The allowance for doubtful accounts as a percentage of receivables was 5.1% at December 31, 2005 compared with 5.8% at December 31, 2004. Net property and equipment remained relatively flat at $3.23 billion as capital expenditures of $375.6 million, the addition of capital leases of $18.6 million and the effects of acquisitions were offset by depreciation expense of $402.8 million. Goodwill of $18.90 billion decreased $9.35 billion from $28.25 billion at December 31, 2004, primarily reflecting the impairment of goodwill at the Television and Radio segments. Intangible assets, principally consisting of FCC licenses, increased by $141.3 million to $10.51 billion at December 31, 2005 from $10.37 billion at December 31, 2004, primarily reflecting the acquisition of a television station, partially offset by amortization expense of $95.9 million. Current liabilities decreased $1.50 billion to $5.38 billion at December 31, 2005 from $6.88 billion at December 31, 2004 primarily due to a $2.59 billion decrease in current liabilities of discontinued operations reflecting the spin off of New Viacom and a $57.3 million decrease in other current liabilities. This decrease was partially offset by increases of $205.8 million in accounts payable, $187.9 million in participants share, residuals and royalties payable and $130.9 million in program rights primarily for television product. Total stockholders equity decreased $20.29 billion to $21.74 billion at December 31, 2005 from $42.02 billion at December 31, 2004. The following table summarizes the significant activity during the year. Total Stockholders Equity at December 31, 2004 $ 42,024.3 Net loss for the year ended December 31, 2005 (7,089.1 ) Spin off of New Viacom (7,730.7 ) Stock purchases (5,456.2 ) Dividends (440.9 ) Exercise of stock options, including tax benefit 423.9 Other 5.7 Total Stockholders Equity at December 31, 2005 $ 21,737.0 II 20 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Cash Flows Cash and cash equivalents, including discontinued operations, increased by $727.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. The change in cash and cash equivalents was as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Cash provided by operating activities from: Continuing operations $ 1,909.6 $ 1,650.7 $ 1,586.4 Discontinued operations 1,627.4 1,989.9 1,911.0 Cash provided by operating activities 3,537.0 3,640.6 $ 3,497.4 Cash provided by (used for) investing activities from: Continuing operations 4,932.9 (245.1 ) (267.8 ) Discontinued operations (165.1 ) (288.6 ) (1,594.6 ) Cash provided by (used for) investing activities 4,767.8 (533.7 ) (1,862.4 ) Cash used for financing activities from: Continuing operations (7,151.8 ) (2,919.0 ) (1,006.3 ) Discontinued operations (425.9 ) (110.4 ) (409.4 ) Cash used for financing activities (7,577.7 ) (3,029.4 ) (1,415.7 ) Net increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 727.1 $ 77.5 $ 219.3 Operating Activities. In 2005, cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations increased $258.9 million, or 16%, to $1.91 billion in 2005 from $1.65 billion in 2004 principally reflecting changes in working capital partially offset by higher taxes paid in 2005. In 2004, cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations increased $64.3 million, or 4%, to $1.65 billion from $1.59 billion principally reflecting higher earnings after adjusting for the non cash impairment charge, partially offset by higher taxes paid in 2004 compared to 2003. Cash paid for income taxes from continuing operations of $520.3 million for 2005 was higher than 2004 payments of $416.6 million principally due to the absence of audit refunds that were received in 2004. Cash taxes for 2006 are anticipated to increase by approximately $250 million to $300 million principally driven by higher pre tax income and a decrease in income tax benefit from stock option exercises. Investing Activities. In 2005, cash provided by investing activities from continuing operations of $4.93 billion reflected the $5.4 billion special dividend received from New Viacom in the fourth quarter of 2005 as well as proceeds from dispositions of $279.6 million, principally from the sale of television and radio stations. These proceeds were partially offset by capital expenditures of $375.6 million and acquisitions of $462.9 million, primarily reflecting the acquisition of KOVR TV in Sacramento and KIFR FM, a San Francisco radio station. Capital expenditures increased $113.4 million, or 43%, to $375.6 million in 2005 from $262.2 million principally reflecting additional broadcasting equipment and investments in infrastructures in preparation of the Separation on December 31, 2005. Net cash expenditures for investing activities from continuing operations of $245.1 million primarily for investment in systems upgrades and building improvements for the year ended December 31, 2004 principally reflected capital expenditures of $262.2 million. Net cash expenditures for investing activities from continuing operations of $267.8 million in 2003 primarily reflected capital expenditures of $234.1 million primarily for broadcasting equipment and outdoor advertising structures. II 21   Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Capital expenditures for 2006 are anticipated to be in the range of $375 million to $400 million. Financing Activities. In 2005, cash flow used for financing activities from continuing operations of $7.15 billion principally reflected the purchase of Company stock for $5.56 billion, repayment of notes and debentures of $1.44 billion and dividend payments of $451.3 million. These uses were partially offset by proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options of $317.5 million. In 2004, cash flow used for financing activities from continuing operations of $2.92 billion principally reflected the purchase of Company stock for $2.50 billion and dividend payments of $415.2 million. These uses were partially offset by the exercise of employee stock options of $119.6 million. Net cash flow used for financing activities from continuing operations of $1.01 billion for 2003 principally reflected the purchase of Company stock for $945.1 million, the repayment of notes and debentures of $765.4 million, the net repayment of bank debt, including commercial paper, of $162.1 million and the payment of $104.6 million of dividends. These uses were partially offset by proceeds from the issuance of notes and debentures of $736.5 million and from the exercise of employee stock options of $245.2 million. Stock Purchase Program and Cash Dividends In 2005, on a trade date basis, Former Viacom purchased 79.6 million shares of class B common stock for approximately $5.46 billion. As of December 31, 2005, there was approximately $579.8 million remaining under the $8.0 billion purchase program. The Company does not currently expect to make purchases under its stock purchase program during 2006. In 2004, on a trade date basis, Former Viacom purchased 34.2 million shares of class B common stock for approximately $2.53 billion. As a result of the Separation, all Former Viacom share and per share data have been adjusted to reflect the one share for .5 share conversion. The Former Viacom declared a quarterly cash dividend on its common stock during each of the four quarters of 2005 and 2004 for a total of $440.9 million in 2005 and $427.0 million in 2004. On January 25, 2006, the Company declared a quarterly cash dividend of $.16 per share payable on April 1, 2006. CBS Corp. currently expects to continue to pay a regular cash dividend to its stockholders. Based on the number of shares of CBS Corp. Class A and Class B Common Stock outstanding after the Separation, a $.16 per share quarterly dividend declaration for each of the four quarters of 2006 would result in approximately $480 million of annual dividends. Acquisitions and Dispositions In January 2006, the Company announced its intention to divest Paramount Parks and to complete the divesture in the second half of 2006. On January 5, 2006, the Company completed the acquisition of CSTV Networks, Inc., a cable network and online digital sports media company, for a purchase price of approximately $325 million, comprised of 10.2 million shares of CBS Corp. Class B Common Stock and $49 million in cash. During the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company acquired KIFR FM, a San Francisco radio station, for approximately $95 million. During the second quarter of 2005, the Company acquired KOVR TV, a Sacramento television station for approximately $285.0 million. II 22 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Capital Structure At December 31, 2005 2004 Notes payable to banks $ 7.2 $ 5.9 Senior debt 4.625% 8.875% due 2005 2051 7,919.9 9,421.4 Other notes 1.0 17.9 Obligations under capital leases 125.4 471.8 Total debt 8,053.5 9,917.0 Less other discontinued operations debt 153.2 553.4 Less current portion of long term debt 747.1 12.1 Total long term debt from continuing operations, net of current portion $ 7,153.2 $ 9,351.5 Total debt of $8.05 billion at December 31, 2005 and $9.92 billion at December 31, 2004 was 27% and 19%, respectively, as a percentage of total capitalization of the Company. The senior debt of CBS Corp. is fully and unconditionally guaranteed by its wholly owned subsidiary CBS Operations Inc. (formerly known as Viacom International Inc.). Senior debt in the amount of $52.2 million of the Companys wholly owned subsidiary, CBS Broadcasting Inc., is not guaranteed. The Companys total debt included, as of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively, (i) an aggregate unamortized premium of $31.8 million and $35.3 million and (ii) the net change in the carrying value of the debt relating to fair value hedges of $(8.5) million and $17.4 million. On January 30, 2006, the Company redeemed, at maturity, all of the outstanding 6.4% senior notes for $800.0 million. For the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, the following debt maturities, redemptions and repurchases occurred: Debt Maturities May 20, 2005, 7.15% senior notes, $500.0 million June 1, 2005, 7.75% senior notes, $951.0 million Debt Redemptions July 15, 2004, all of the outstanding Go Outdoor Systems Holdings S.A. 10.50% senior subordinated notes due 2009 at 105.25% of principal During 2004, the Company acquired SportsLine.com, which had outstanding $16.9 million 5% convertible subordinated notes due 2006. These notes were redeemed in January 2005. Debt Repurchases For the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Company repurchased approximately $21.2 million and $20.0 million of its debt, respectively. The Companys scheduled maturities of long term debt at face value, including discontinued operations debt and excluding commercial paper and capital leases, outstanding at December 31, 2005 were as follows: 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 and thereafter Long term debt $ 804.6 $ 700.7 $ .8 $ .8 $ 1,637.7 $ 4,760.2 II 23 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) CBS Corp. Credit Agreement As of December 31, 2005, the Company had a $3.0 billion revolving credit facility due December 2010 (the "Credit Facility"). The Company, at its option, may also borrow in certain foreign currencies up to specified limits under the Credit Facility. Borrowing rates under the facility are determined at the Companys option at the time of each borrowing and are based generally on the prime rate in the United States or the London Interbank Offer Rate ("LIBOR") plus a margin based on the Companys senior unsecured debt rating. The Company pays a facility fee based on the total amount of the commitments. As of December 31, 2005, the remaining availability under the Credit Facility, net of outstanding letters of credit, was $2.72 billion. The Credit Facility contains covenants, which, among other things, require that the Company maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio. At December 31, 2005, the Company was in compliance with all covenants under the Credit Facility. The primary purpose of the Credit Facility is to support commercial paper borrowings. At December 31, 2005, the Company had no commercial paper borrowings under its $3.0 billion commercial paper program. Accounts Receivable Securitization Programs As of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively, the Company had an aggregate of $550.0 million and $1.0 billion outstanding under revolving receivable securitization programs. The decrease reflects $450.0 million of securitized receivables that are attributable to the New Viacom program since the Separation. The programs result in the sale of receivables on a non recourse basis to unrelated third parties on a one year renewable basis, thereby reducing accounts receivable and debt on the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheets. The Company enters into these arrangements because they provide an additional source of liquidity. Proceeds from the programs were used to reduce outstanding borrowings. The terms of the revolving securitization arrangements require that the receivable pools subject to the programs meet certain performance ratios. As of December 31, 2005, the Company was in compliance with the required ratios under the receivable securitization programs. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company believes that its operating cash flows from continuing operations ($1.91 billion in 2005), cash and cash equivalents ($1.66 billion at December 31, 2005), borrowing capacity under its committed bank facility (which consisted of availability under the Credit Facility of $2.72 billion at December 31, 2005), and access to capital markets are sufficient to fund its operating needs, including commitments and contingencies, capital and investing commitments and its financing requirements for the foreseeable future. The funding for commitments to purchase sports programming rights, television and film operations, and talent contracts will come primarily from cash flow from operations. The Company continually projects anticipated cash requirements, which include capital expenditures, acquisitions, dividends and principal payments on its outstanding indebtedness, as well as cash flows generated from operating activities available to meet these needs. Any net cash funding requirements are financed with short term borrowings (primarily commercial paper) and long term debt. Commercial paper borrowings, which also accommodate day to day changes in funding requirements, are backed by a committed bank facility that may be utilized in the event that commercial paper borrowings are not available. The Company believes its credit position affords sufficient access to the capital markets to meet the Companys financing requirements. In accordance with the terms of the Separation Agreement, New Viacom paid to the Company an estimated special dividend of $5.4 billion. Pursuant to the provisions of the Separation Agreement, the II 24 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) estimated special dividend is subject to adjustment. CBS Corp. used the proceeds from the special cash dividend to, among other things, repay outstanding commercial paper, debt outstanding under its revolving Credit Facility and certain fixed rate debt upon maturity in January 2006. On March 14, 2006, the Company submitted to New Viacom an adjustment to increase the estimated special dividend in the amount of approximately $460 million. The Company and New Viacom have up to 65 days to agree upon the adjustment before any disputed amounts would become subject to a dispute resolution process. The Company anticipates that future debt maturities will be funded with cash and cash equivalents, and cash flows generated from operating activities and other debt financing. There are no provisions in any of the Companys material financing agreements that would cause an acceleration of the obligation in the event of a downgrade in the Companys debt ratings. The Company filed a shelf registration statement with the SEC registering debt securities, preferred stock and warrants of CBS Corp. that may be issued for aggregate gross proceeds of $5.0 billion. The registration statement was first declared effective on January 8, 2001. The net proceeds from the sale of the offered securities may be used by CBS Corp. for general corporate purposes, including repayment of borrowings, working capital and capital expenditures, or for such other purposes as may be specified in the applicable prospectus supplement. To date, the Company has issued $2.385 billion of securities under the shelf registration statement. As of December 31, 2005, the Companys significant contractual obligations, including payments due by period, were as follows: Payments Due by Period Total 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 and thereafter Programming and talent commitments (1) $ 14,164.3 $ 3,299.0 $ 4,392.1 $ 3,382.9 $ 3,090.3 Operating leases (2) 1,288.9 253.5 406.1 256.6 372.7 Guaranteed minimum franchise payments (3) 1,822.7 405.7 512.5 351.5 553.0 Purchase obligations (4) 281.3 158.1 68.6 52.0 2.6 Capital lease obligations (including interest) (5) 169.0 21.2 38.6 29.6 79.6 Long term debt obligations (6) 7,904.8 804.6 701.5 1,638.5 4,760.2 Other long term contractual obligations (7) 1,115.6 720.2 250.7 144.7 Interest commitments on long term debt (8) 6,338.6 498.3 921.9 856.2 4,062.2 (1)Programming and talent commitments of the Company include $9.89 billion for the acquisition of sports programming rights, $2.86 billion relating to television, radio, and film production and acquisitions and $897.8 million for talent contracts. (2)Includes long term noncancelable operating lease commitments for office space and equipment, transponders, studio facilities and vehicles. (3)The outdoor advertising business has franchise rights entitling it to display advertising on media including billboards, transit shelters, buses, rail systems (in car, station platforms and terminals), mall kiosks, masts and stadium signage. Under most of these franchise agreements, the franchisor is entitled to receive the greater of a percentage of the relevant advertising revenues, net of advertising agency fees, or a specified guaranteed minimum annual payment. (4)Purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including open purchase orders. (5)Includes capital leases for satellite transponders. (6)Long term debt obligations are presented at face value. (7)Long term contractual obligations including program liabilities and participations due to producers and residuals. (8)Future interest based on scheduled debt maturities, excluding capital leases. II 25 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In connection with the Separation, New Viacom has agreed to indemnify CBS Corp. with respect to obligations related to Blockbuster. Among those obligations are guarantees entered into by Former Viacom of certain Blockbuster store leases which aggregated approximately $352.9 million at December 31, 2005. Certain leases contain renewal options that can extend the primary lease term and remain covered by the guarantees. These guarantees are secured by a $150 million Blockbuster letter of credit. In connection with the July 2005 divestiture of Famous Players, New Viacom has agreed to indemnify CBS Corp. with respect to liabilities associated with Famous Players theater leases. In the fourth quarter of 2004, the Company sold its 50% equity interest in UCI, which operates movie theaters in Europe, Latin America and Asia. In connection with the Separation, New Viacom has agreed to indemnify CBS Corp. with respect to liabilities associated with certain UCI theater leases. The guarantees entered into by Former Viacom totaled approximately $152.4 million at December 31, 2005 and are secured by bank guarantees provided by the buyer. New Viacom also owns a 50% interest in WF Cinema Holdings, L.P. and Graumans Theatres, LLC and certain of their theater leases were guaranteed by Former Viacom. New Viacom has agreed to indemnify CBS Corp. with respect to obligations under these guarantees. These guarantees totaled approximately $10.0 million at December 31, 2005. Additionally, the Company has indemnification obligations with respect to letters of credit and surety bonds primarily used as security against non performance in the normal course of business. The outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds approximated $348.2 million at December 31, 2005 and are not recorded on the balance sheet as of December 31, 2005. Critical Accounting Policies Financial Reporting Release No. 60, "Cautionary Advice Regarding Disclosure About Critical Accounting Policies" ("FRR 60"), suggests companies provide additional disclosure and commentary on those accounting policies considered most critical. FRR 60 considers an accounting policy to be critical if it is important to the Companys financial condition and results of operations, and requires significant judgment and estimates on the part of management in its application. For a summary of the Companys significant accounting policies, including the critical accounting policies discussed below, see the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. The preparation of the Companys financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amount of expenses during the reporting period. On an ongoing basis, the Company evaluates its estimates, which are based on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. The result of these evaluations forms the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities and the reported amount of expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions. The following accounting policies require significant management judgments and estimates. Accounting for the production and distribution of television programming is in accordance with SOP 00 2, which requires managements judgment as it relates to total revenues to be received and costs to be incurred throughout the life of each program. These judgments are used to determine the amortization II 26 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) of capitalized production costs, expensing of participation and residual cost and any necessary net realizable value adjustments. The Company accounts for its business acquisitions under the purchase method of accounting. The total cost of acquisitions is allocated to the underlying net assets, based on their respective estimated fair values. The excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the tangible and identifiable intangible net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed requires managements judgment and often involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions, including assumptions with respect to future cash inflows and outflows, discount rates, asset lives, and market multiples, among other items. In accordance with SFAS 142, the Company tests goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment during the fourth quarter of each year, and on an interim date should factors or indicators become apparent that would require an interim test. A significant downward revision in the present value of estimated future cash flows for a reporting unit or intangible assets could result in an impairment under SFAS 142 and a non cash charge would be required. Balance sheet reserves and liabilities related to legal issues, restructuring charges and discontinued businesses, including asbestos and environmental matters, require significant judgments and estimates by management. The Company continually evaluates these estimates based on changes in the relevant facts and circumstances and events that may impact estimates. While management believes that the current reserves for matters related to historical and predecessor operations of the Company, including environmental and asbestos are adequate, there can be no assurance that circumstances will not change in future periods. Pension benefit obligations and net periodic pension costs are calculated using many actuarial assumptions. Two key assumptions used in accounting for pension liabilities and expenses are the discount rate and expected rate of return on plan assets. The discount rate reflects the rate at which the pension benefit obligations could effectively be settled. The Company determined the discount rate by projecting the plans expected future benefit payments as defined for the projected benefit obligation. Those projected benefit payments are used to construct a high quality bond portfolio with interest and principal payments that provide the cash flows necessary to meet the projected benefit payments. The projected benefit payments are discounted by the weighted average yield of the bond portfolio. The expected long term returns on plan assets were based upon the target asset allocation and return estimates for equity and debt securities. The expected rate of return for equities was based upon the risk free rate plus a premium for equity securities. The expected return on debt securities was based upon an analysis of current and historical yields on portfolios of similar quality and duration. For 2005, the unrecognized actuarial loss for pension increased principally as a result of change in mortality rate assumption and lower than expected returns from plan assets. A decrease in the discount rate or a decrease in the expected rate of return on plan assets would increase pension expense. The estimated impact of a 25 basis point change in the discount rate would be a change of approximately $14 million on 2006 pension expense and will change the projected benefit obligation by approximately $152 million. The estimated impact of a 25 basis point change in the expected rate of return on plan assets is a change of approximately $10 million in 2006 pension expense. The Company is subject to income taxes in both the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining the worldwide provision for income taxes. The Company is continually audited by U.S. federal and state as well as foreign tax authorities. While it is often difficult to predict the final outcome or the timing of resolution of any particular tax matter, the Company believes that its tax reserves reflect the probable outcome of known contingencies. An estimated II 27 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) effective tax rate for a year is applied to quarterly operating results. In the event there is a significant or unusual item recognized in the quarterly operating results, the tax attributable to that item is separately calculated and recorded in the same quarter. A number of years may elapse before a tax return containing tax matters, for which a reserve has been established, is audited and finally resolved. During 2004, the Company recognized $128.4 million of tax benefits related to the resolution of certain prior year tax audits. Legal Matters Shareholder Derivative Lawsuits and Demands. Two shareholder derivative lawsuits, consolidated as In re Viacom Shareholders Derivative Litigation, were filed in July 2005 in New York State Supreme Court relating to executive compensation and alleged corporate waste. The actions name each member of Former Viacoms Board of Directors, Messrs. Tom Freston and Leslie Moonves (each of whom were executive officers of Former Viacom), and, as a nominal defendant, Former Viacom, alleging that the 2004 compensation of Messrs. Redstone, Freston, and Moonves was excessive and unwarranted and challenging the independence of certain Former Viacom directors. Mr. Redstone is the Companys Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors and Founder and Mr. Moonves is the Companys President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Freston is New Viacoms President and Chief Executive Officer. Plaintiffs seek unspecified damages from the members of the Former Viacom Board of Directors for their alleged breach of fiduciary duties, disgorgement of the 2004 compensation paid to the officers of Former Viacom, equitable relief, and attorney fees and expenses. The Company moved to dismiss the complaints and oral argument was heard on February 16, 2006. No decision has been issued by the court. Any liabilities in this matter adverse to the Company and or New Viacom will be shared equally between the Company and New Viacom. The Company believes that the plaintiffs positions in these actions are without merit and it intends to vigorously defend itself in the litigation. The Company has received shareholder demands seeking access to books and records of the Company relating to executive compensation paid to Sumner M. Redstone, Tom Freston and Leslie Moonves, accompanied by statements that such demands are in furtherance of an investigation of possible mismanagement, self dealing and corporate waste by directors and officers of Former Viacom. Another shareholder demand seeking access to books and records relates to the compensation of Sumner M. Redstone and Mel Karmazin (former Chief Operating Officer of Former Viacom). One of the demands also seeks access to books and records of the Company relating to Sumner M. Redstones acquisition of a controlling interest in Midway Games Inc. The Company intends to comply with all reasonable requests. Under the Separation Agreement between the Company and New Viacom, liabilities in connection with executive compensation claims relating to officers of Former Viacom are shared equally by the Company and New Viacom. Claims Related to Former Businesses: Asbestos, Environmental and Other. The Company is a defendant in lawsuits claiming various personal injuries related to asbestos and other materials, which allegedly occurred principally as a result of exposure caused by various products manufactured by Westinghouse, a predecessor, generally prior to the early 1970s. Westinghouse was neither a producer nor a manufacturer of asbestos. The Company is typically named as one of a large number of defendants in both state and federal cases. In the majority of asbestos lawsuits, the plaintiffs have not identified which of the Companys products is the basis of a claim. Claims against the Company in which a product has been identified principally relate to exposures allegedly caused by asbestos containing insulating material in turbines sold for power generation, industrial and marine use, or by asbestos containing grades of decorative micarta, a laminate used in commercial ships. II 28 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Claims are frequently filed and or settled in large groups, which may make the amount and timing of settlements, and the number of pending claims, subject to significant fluctuation from period to period. The Company does not report as pending those claims on inactive, stayed, deferred or similar dockets which some jurisdictions have established for claimants who allege minimal or no impairment. As of December 31, 2005, the Company had pending approximately 101,170 asbestos claims, as compared with approximately 112,140 as of December 31, 2004 and approximately 112,280 as of December 31, 2003. Of the claims pending as of December 31, 2005, approximately 70,910 were pending in state courts, 27,640 in federal courts and approximately 2,620 were third party claims. During 2005, the Company received approximately 11,470 new claims and closed or moved to an inactive docket approximately 22,440 claims. The Company reports claims as closed when it becomes aware that a dismissal order has been entered by a court or when the Company has reached agreement with the claimants on the material terms of a settlement. Settlement costs depend on the seriousness of the injuries that form the basis of the claim, the quality of evidence supporting the claims and other factors. To date, the Company has not been liable for any third party claims. The Companys total costs for the years 2005 and 2004 for settlement and defense of asbestos claims after insurance recoveries and net of tax benefits were approximately $37.2 million and $58.4 million, respectively. The Companys costs for settlement and defense of asbestos claims may vary year to year as insurance proceeds are not always recovered in the same period as the insured portion of the expenses. Filings include claims for individuals suffering from mesothelioma, a rare cancer, the risk of which is allegedly increased primarily by exposure to asbestos; lung cancer, a cancer which may be caused by various factors, one of which is alleged to be asbestos exposure; other cancers, and conditions that are substantially less serious, including claims brought on behalf of individuals who are asymptomatic as to an allegedly asbestos related disease. Claims identified as cancer remain a small percentage of asbestos claims pending at December 31, 2005. In a substantial number of the pending claims, the plaintiff has not yet identified the claimed injury. The Company believes that its reserves and insurance are adequate to cover its asbestos liabilities. The Company from time to time receives claims from federal and state environmental regulatory agencies and other entities asserting that it is or may be liable for environmental cleanup costs and related damages principally relating to historical and predecessor operations of the Company. In addition, the Company from time to time receives personal injury claims including toxic tort and product liability claims (other than asbestos) arising from historical operations of the Company and its predecessors. On an ongoing basis, the Company defends itself in a multitude of lawsuits and proceedings and responds to various investigations and inquiries from federal, state and local authorities (collectively, "litigation"). Litigation is inherently uncertain and always difficult to predict. However, based on its understanding and evaluation of the relevant facts and circumstances, the Company believes that the above described legal matters and other litigation to which it is a party are not likely, in the aggregate, to have a material adverse effect on its results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Under the Separation Agreement between the Company and New Viacom, New Viacom has agreed to defend and indemnify CBS Corp. in certain litigation in which CBS Corp. is named. Market Risk The Company is exposed to market risk related to foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. The Company uses derivative financial instruments to modify exposure to risks from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. In accordance with its policy, the Company does not use II 29 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) derivative instruments unless there is an underlying exposure and therefore, the Company does not hold or enter into financial instruments for speculative trading purposes. Foreign Exchange Risk The Company conducts business with companies in various countries outside the United States, resulting in exposure to movements in foreign exchange rates when translating from the foreign local currency to the U.S. dollar. In order to hedge anticipated cash flows and foreign currency balances in such currencies as the British Pound, the Euro, the Canadian Dollar, the Mexican Peso and the Australian Dollar foreign currency forward and option contracts are used. Additionally, the Company designates forward contracts used to hedge future production costs as cash flow hedges, and may designate certain forward contracts as a hedge of the foreign currency exposure of a net investment in a foreign operation. The change in fair value of the non designated contracts is included in current period results as part of "Other items, net." The Company manages the use of foreign exchange derivatives centrally. At December 31, 2005, the notional value of all foreign exchange contracts was $221.4 million which represents hedges of underlying foreign currency balances and expected foreign currency cash flows. At December 31, 2004, the notional value of all foreign exchange contracts was $458.2 million, of which $8.3 million related to the hedging of future productions costs. The remaining $449.9 million represented hedges of underlying foreign currency balances, expected foreign currency cash flows and investment hedges. Interest Rate Risk All of the Companys long term debt has been issued under fixed interest rate agreements. The Company has entered into fixed to floating rate swap agreements for a portion of this debt, which are designated as fair value hedges. These swaps expose the Company to movements in short term interest rates. Based on the amount of fixed to floating rate swaps and receivable securitization programs outstanding at December 31, 2005, a 100 basis point change in interest rates would cause a $16.3 change to pre tax earnings. As of December 31, 2005, if all parties were to agree, the swaps could have been terminated by a net payment from the Company of approximately $9.3 million including accrued interest. At December 31, 2005, the Company was a party to the following outstanding fair value hedges: Interest rate swaps totaling $350 million in notional amount, which matured on January 30, 2006, and (i) received interest on $200 million at a weighted average rate of approximately 2.78% and paid interest based on three month LIBOR in advance and (ii) received interest on $150 million at a weighted average rate of approximately 3.57% and paid interest based on six month LIBOR in arrears. Interest rate swaps totaling $700 million in notional amount, which mature on May 1, 2007, and (i) receive interest on $400 million at 5.11% and pay interest based on three month LIBOR in advance and (ii) receive interest on $300 million at a weighted average rate of approximately 5.35% and pay interest based on three month LIBOR in arrears. Interest rate swaps totaling $300 million in notional amount, which mature on May 15, 2018, receive interest at a weighted average rate of approximately 4.55% and pay interest based on three month LIBOR in advance. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Company did not have any interest rate cash flow hedges outstanding. II 30 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Credit Risk The Company continually monitors its positions with, and credit quality of, the financial institutions which are counterparties to its financial instruments. The Company is exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties to the agreements. However, the Company does not anticipate nonperformance by the counterparties. The Companys receivables do not represent significant concentrations of credit risk at December 31, 2005, due to the wide variety of customers, markets and geographic areas to which the Companys products and services are sold. Related Parties National Amusements, Inc. National Amusements, Inc. ("NAI") is the controlling stockholder of CBS Corp. Mr. Sumner M. Redstone, the controlling stockholder, chairman of the board of directors and chief executive officer of NAI, serves as the Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors for both CBS Corp. and New Viacom. On October 28, 2004, Former Viacom entered into an agreement (the "NAIRI Agreement") with NAI and NAIRI, Inc. ("NAIRI"), a wholly owned subsidiary of NAI, pursuant to which Former Viacom agreed to buy, and NAI and NAIRI agreed to sell, a number of shares of Class B Common Stock each month such that the ownership percentage of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock (considered as a single class) held by NAI and or NAIRI would not increase as a result of purchases of shares of Former Viacom Common Stock under the $8.0 billion stock purchase program announced in October 2004. Pursuant to this agreement, Former Viacom recorded the purchase of 9.2 million shares of Former Viacom Class B Common Stock from NAIRI for $628.9 million in 2005. All Former Viacom share and per share data have been adjusted to reflect the Share Conversion. The Company does not currently anticipate making purchases under this stock purchase program during 2006. New Viacom. CBS Corp., through its normal course of business, is involved in transactions with companies owned by or affiliated with New Viacom. CBS Corp., through its Television segment, licenses its television products to New Viacom, primarily MTV Networks and BET. In addition, CBS Corp. recognizes advertising revenues for media spending placed by various subsidiaries of New Viacom, primarily Paramount Pictures. CBS Corp.s total revenues from these transactions were $173.6 million, $378.2 million and $186.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Simon & Schuster and Paramount Parks are also involved in transactions with New Viacom that have not been material in any of the periods presented. CBS Corp., through Showtime Networks and CBS Television, purchases motion picture programming from New Viacom, primarily Paramount Pictures. The costs of these purchases are initially recorded as inventory and amortized over the life of the contract or projected useful life of the programming. Paramount Pictures also distributes certain television products on behalf of CBS Television in the home entertainment market. In addition, CBS Corp. places advertisements with various subsidiaries of New Viacom. The total purchases from these transactions were $154.9 million, $157.4 million and $221.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. II 31 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Transactions with New Viacom and its subsidiaries, through the normal course of business, are settled in cash. The following table presents the amounts due from or due to New Viacom and its subsidiaries in the normal course of business as reflected in CBS Corp.s Consolidated Balance Sheets: At December 31, 2005 2004 Amounts due from New Viacom Receivables $ 235.8 $ 204.5 Other assets (Receivables, non current) 225.2 349.2 Total amounts due from New Viacom $ 461.0 $ 553.7 Amounts due to New Viacom Accounts payable $ 3.4 $ 2.7 Program rights 64.7 64.1 Other liabilities (Program rights, non current) 41.2 43.4 Total amounts due to New Viacom $ 109.3 $ 110.2 In connection with the Separation, CBS Corp. and New Viacom entered into various agreements including the Separation Agreement, the Tax Matters Agreement and a transition services agreement. Separation Agreement. The Separation Agreement identified assets transferred, liabilities assumed and contracts assigned to CBS Corp. by New Viacom and to New Viacom by CBS Corp. in the Separation, and described when and how these transfers, assumptions and assignments were to occur. Neither CBS Corp. nor New Viacom made any representations or warranties with respect to any aspect of their respective assets, liabilities or businesses. The Separation Agreement also set forth certain agreements between CBS Corp. and New Viacom with respect to the period following the Separation. The Separation Agreement was executed on December 19, 2005. Tax Matters Agreement. The Tax Matters Agreement sets forth the responsibilities of each of CBS Corp. and New Viacom with respect to, among other things, liabilities for federal, state, local and foreign income taxes for periods before and including the merger, the preparation and filing of income tax returns for such periods, disputes with taxing authorities regarding income taxes for such periods and indemnification for income taxes that would become due if the merger were taxable. Transition Services Agreement. In connection with the Separation Agreement, CBS Corp. provides New Viacom and New Viacom provides CBS Corp. with various support services for certain of their respective businesses including data center, payroll and uplink services for various periods subsequent to the date of Separation. No amounts have been reflected in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations as the Separation occurred on December 31, 2005. Other Related Parties The Company owned approximately 18% in Westwood One, Inc. ("Westwood One") as of December 31, 2005, which is accounted for as an equity investment. Most of CBS Radios stations are affiliated with Westwood One, and Westwood One distributes nationally certain of the Companys radio programming. In connection with these arrangements, the Company receives affiliation fees as well as programming cost reimbursements and, in certain instances, shares in revenue from the sale by Westwood One of CBS Radios programming. In addition, certain employees of CBS Radio serve as officers of Westwood One for which the Company receives a management fee. CBS Television also enters into programming agreements with Westwood One. Revenues from these arrangements were approximately $81.3 million, $82.6 million and $82.1 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The Company, through the normal course of business, is involved in transactions with other affiliated companies that have not been material in any of the periods presented. II 32   Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Recent Pronouncements In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154 "Accounting Changes and Error Corrections" ("SFAS 154"), a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20, "Accounting Changes", and FASB Statement No. 3, "Reporting Accounting Changes in Interim Financial Statements", effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. SFAS 154 changes the requirements for the accounting and reporting of a voluntary change in accounting principle as well as the changes required by an accounting pronouncement which does not include specific transition provisions. The Company does not expect the implementation of SFAS 154 to have a significant impact on the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. On April 14, 2005, the SEC issued a ruling that amended the effective date for implementing SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004) "Share Based Payment" ("SFAS 123R"). SFAS 123R revises SFAS No. 123 "Accounting for Stock based Compensation" ("SFAS 123") and supersedes APB Opinion No. 25 "Accounting for Stock Issues to Employees." SFAS 123R requires companies to measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments based on grant date fair value of the award. That cost will be recognized over the vesting period during which an employee is required to provide service in exchange for the award. Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted SFAS 123R and, accordingly, will recognize compensation cost for equity based compensation for all new or modified grants after the date of adoption. In addition, the Company will recognize the unvested portion of the grant date fair value of awards made prior to the adoption based on the fair values previously calculated for disclosure purposes. At December 31, 2005, the aggregate value of unvested options as determined using a Black Scholes option valuation model was $83.0 million, which will be expensed over the remaining vesting period of these options. On March 8, 2005, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company approved the acceleration of the vesting of unvested stock options having an exercise price of $38.00 (not adjusted for the Share Conversion) or greater granted under the Companys 2000 and 1997 Long Term Management Incentive Plans. Stock option awards granted from 1999 through 2004 are subject to this acceleration which was effective as of March 8, 2005. Since these options had exercise prices in excess of the then current market value and were not fully achieving their original objectives of incentive compensation and employee retention, the Company expected the acceleration to have a positive effect on employee morale, retention and perception of option value. The acceleration also eliminated future compensation expense the Company would otherwise recognize in its Consolidated Statements of Operations under SFAS 123R. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. Response to this is included in "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition Market Risk." II 33  
 
