Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition," contain both historical and forward looking statements. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward looking statements within the meaning of section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward looking statements are not based on historical facts, but rather reflect the Companys current expectations concerning future results and events. These forward looking statements generally can be identified by the use of statements that include phrases such as "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "plan," "foresee," "likely," "will" or other similar words or phrases. Similarly, statements that describe the Companys objectives, plans or goals are or may be forward looking statements. These forward looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that are difficult to predict and which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the Company to be different from any future results, performance and achievements expressed or implied by these statements. More information about these risks, uncertainties and other factors is set forth below. There may be additional risks, uncertainties and factors that the Company does not currently view as material or that are not necessarily known. The forward looking statements included in this document are only made as of the date of this document and the Company does not have any obligation to publicly update any forward looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances. RISK FACTORS For an enterprise as large and complex as the Company, a wide range of factors could affect our business and financial results. The factors described below are considered to be the most significant. There may be other currently unknown or unpredictable economic, business, competitive, regulatory or other factors that could have material adverse effects on the Companys future results. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. A Decline in Advertising Expenditures Could Cause the Companys Revenues and Operating Results to Decline Significantly in Any Given Period or in Specific Markets The Company derives substantial revenues from the sale of advertising on its broadcast and basic cable networks, television stations, radio stations, outdoor media and syndicated programming. A decline in the economic prospects of advertisers, the economy in general or the economy of any individual geographic market, particularly a major market such as Los Angeles, New York or Chicago, in which the Company owns and operates sizeable businesses, could alter current or prospective advertisers spending priorities. Disasters, acts of terrorism, political uncertainty or hostilities could lead to a reduction in advertising expenditures as a result of uninterrupted news coverage and economic uncertainty. Advertising expenditures may also be affected by increasing competition for the leisure time of audiences. In addition, advertising expenditures by companies in certain sectors of the economy, including the automotive, financial and pharmaceutical segments, represent a significant portion of the Companys advertising revenues. Any political, economic, social or technological change resulting in a reduction in these sectors advertising expenditures may adversely affect the Companys revenue. Advertisers willingness to purchase advertising from the Company may also be affected by a decline in audience ratings for the Companys programming, the inability of the Company to retain the rights to popular programming, increasing audience fragmentation caused by the proliferation of new media formats, including cable networks, the Internet and video on demand and the deployment of portable digital devices which allow consumers to time shift programming and skip or fast forward through advertisements. The Companys revenues from I 24 outdoor advertising also depend on the Companys continued ability to obtain the right to use effective outdoor advertising space. Any reduction in advertising expenditures could have an adverse effect on the Companys revenues and results of operations. The Companys Success Is Dependent upon Audience Acceptance of Its Content, Particularly Its Television and Radio Programs, Which Is Difficult to Predict Television and radio content production and distribution are inherently risky businesses because the revenues derived from the production and distribution of a television or radio program, and the licensing of rights to the intellectual property associated with the program, depend primarily upon their acceptance by the public, which is difficult to predict. The commercial success of a television or radio program also depends upon the quality and acceptance of other competing programs released into the marketplace at or near the same time, the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, general economic conditions and other tangible and intangible factors, all of which are difficult to predict. Rating points are also factors that are weighed when determining the advertising rates that the Company receives. Poor ratings can lead to a reduction in pricing and advertising spending. For example, there can be no assurance that any replacement programming on the Companys radio or television stations will generate the same level of revenues or profitability of previous programming. In addition, the success of the Companys cable networks and Simon & Schuster is dependent in part on audience acceptance of its programming and publications, respectively. Consequently, low public acceptance of the Companys content, particularly its television and radio programs, will have an adverse effect on the Companys results of operations. Failure by the Company to Obtain, Create and Retain the Rights in Popular Programming Could Adversely Affect the Companys Revenues Operating results from the Companys programming businesses fluctuate primarily with the acceptance of such programming by the public, which is difficult to predict. The Companys revenue from its television and radio business is therefore partially dependent on the Companys continued ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in consumer tastes and behavior on a timely basis. Moreover, the Company derives a meaningful portion of its revenues from the exploitation of its extensive library of television programming. Generally, a television series must have a network run of at least three or four years to be successfully sold in domestic syndication. If the content of its television programming library ceases to be widely accepted by audiences or is not continuously replenished with popular content, the Companys revenues could be adversely affected. The Company obtains a significant portion of its popular programming from third parties. For example, some of CBS Networks most widely viewed broadcasts, including the NCAA Division 1 Mens Basketball Championship, golfs Masters Tournament and PGA Championship, and NFL games, are made available based upon programming rights of varying duration that the Company has negotiated with third parties. In addition, Showtime Networks enters into commitments to acquire rights to certain programming for Showtime, The Movie Channel and FLIX from motion picture producers and other suppliers for varying durations, and CBS Radio acquires the broadcast rights to syndicated shows and to various programs, such as sports events from third parties. Competition for popular programming that is licensed from third parties is intense, and the Company may be outbid by its competitors for the rights to new, popular programming or in connection with the renewal of popular programming currently licensed by the Company. The Companys failure to obtain or retain rights to popular content could adversely affect the Companys revenues. Any Decrease in Popularity of the Programming for Which the Company Has Incurred Significant Commitments Could Have an Adverse Effect on Its Profitability Programming and talent commitments of the Company, estimated to aggregate approximately $13.61 billion as of December 31, 2006, primarily included $8.83 billion for the acquisition of sports programming rights, $3.33 billion relating to television, radio and film production and acquisitions and $961.6 million for talent contracts. A majority of such fees are payable over several years, as part of the I 25 normal course of business. A shortfall, now or in the future, in the expected popularity of the sports events for which the Company has acquired rights, or in the television and radio programming the Company expects to air, could lead to decreased profitability or losses for a significant period of time. The Companys Operating Results Are Subject to Seasonal Variations The Companys business has experienced and is expected to continue to experience seasonality due to, among other things, seasonal advertising patterns and seasonal influences on peoples viewing, reading and listening habits. Typically, the Companys revenue from advertising increases in the fourth quarter and Simon & Schuster generates a substantial portion of its revenues in the fourth quarter. In addition, advertising revenues in even numbered years benefit from advertising placed by candidates for political offices. The effects of such seasonality make it difficult to estimate future operating results based on the previous results of any specific quarter and may adversely affect operating results. The Companys Businesses Operate in Highly Competitive Industries The Company competes with other media companies for high quality content and attractive outdoor advertising space to achieve large audiences and to generate advertising revenue. The Company also competes for distribution on various cable, DTH satellite and other platforms. The Companys ability to attract viewers and advertisers and obtain favorable distribution depends in part on its ability to provide popular television, syndicated programming and radio programming and books, as well as well placed outdoor advertising faces. In addition, the consolidation of advertising agencies, distributors and television service providers has made competition for viewers, advertising revenue, and distribution more intense. In addition, consolidation among book retailers has resulted in increased competition for limited shelf space for the Companys publications. Competition for viewers and advertising comes from: broadcast television stations and networks; cable television systems and networks; the Internet; terrestrial and satellite radio and portable digital audio players; outdoor advertisers; local, regional and national newspapers; direct mail; and other communications and advertising media that operate in these markets. Other television and radio stations or cable networks may change their formats or programming, a new station or new network may adopt a format to compete directly with the Companys stations or networks, or stations or networks might engage in aggressive promotional campaigns. This competition could result in lower ratings and advertising and subscription revenues or increased promotional and other expenses and, consequently, lower earnings and cash flow for the Company. The Company cannot assure you that it will be able to compete successfully in the future against existing or potential competitors, or that competition will not have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition or results of operations. The Company Must Respond to Rapid Changes in Technology, Content Creation, Services and Standards in Order to Remain Competitive Video, telecommunications, radio and data services technologies used in the entertainment industry are changing rapidly. Advances in technologies or alternative methods of product delivery or storage, or certain changes in consumer behavior driven by these or other technologies and methods of delivery and storage, could have a negative effect on the Companys businesses. Examples of such advances in technologies include video on demand, satellite radio, new video and electronic book formats, user generated content sites, Internet and mobile distribution of video content, streaming and downloading from the Internet and digital outdoor displays. For example, devices that allow users to view or listen to television or radio programs on a time delayed basis and technologies that enable users to fast forward or skip advertisements, such as DVRs and portable digital devices, may cause changes in consumer behavior that could affect the attractiveness of the Companys offerings to advertisers and could therefore adversely affect its revenues. Also, the growing acceptance of user generated content sites may adversely impact the Companys businesses. In addition, further increases in the use of portable digital devices which allow users to view or listen to content of their own choosing, in their own time, while avoiding traditional commercial advertisements, could adversely affect the Companys radio and television broadcasting advertising and subscription revenues. Cable providers and DTH satellite operators are I 26 developing new techniques that allow them to transmit more channels on their existing equipment to highly targeted audiences, reducing the cost of creating channels and potentially leading to the division of the television marketplace into more specialized niche audiences. More television options increase competition for viewers and competitors targeting programming to narrowly defined audiences may gain an advantage over the Company for television advertising and subscription revenues. The ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in technology on a timely basis and exploit new sources of revenue from these changes will affect the Companys ability to continue to grow and increase its revenue. Increased Programming and Content Costs May Adversely Affect the Companys Profits The Company produces and acquires programming and content and incurs costs for all types of creative talent, including actors, authors, writers and producers. An increase in the costs of such programming and content or in the costs for creative talent may lead to decreased profitability. Piracy of the Companys Programming and Other Content, Including Digital and Internet Piracy, May Decrease Revenue Received from the Exploitation of the Companys Programming and Other Content and Adversely Affect Its Businesses and Profitability Piracy of programming is prevalent in many parts of the world and is made easier by technological advances allowing conversion of programming and other content into digital formats, which facilitates the creation, transmission and sharing of high quality unauthorized copies of the Companys content. The proliferation of unauthorized copies and piracy of these products has an adverse effect on the Companys businesses and profitability because these products reduce the revenue that the Company potentially could receive from the legitimate sale and distribution of its products and services. In addition, if piracy were to increase, it would have an adverse effect on the Companys businesses and profitability. Changes in U.S. Communications Laws or Other Regulations May Have an Adverse Effect on the Companys Business The television and radio broadcasting and distribution industries in the U.S. are highly regulated by U.S. federal laws and regulations issued and administered by various federal agencies, including the FCC. The television and radio broadcasting industry is subject to extensive regulation by the FCC under the Communications Act. For example, the Company is required to obtain licenses from the FCC to operate its radio and television stations. The Company cannot assure you that the FCC will approve its future renewal applications or that the renewals will be for full terms or will not include conditions or qualifications. The non renewal, or renewal with substantial conditions or modifications, of one or more of the Companys licenses could have a material adverse effect on the Companys revenues. The Company must also comply with extensive FCC regulations and policies in the ownership and operation of its television and radio stations and its television networks. FCC regulations prohibit the ownership of more than one of the top four networks, ABC, CBS, FOX and NBC, and limit the number of television and radio stations that a licensee can own in a market and the number of television stations that can be owned nationwide, which could restrict the Companys ability to consummate future transactions and in certain circumstances could require it to divest some television or radio stations. As part of the nationwide transition from analog to digital broadcasting, the Companys full power television stations are required to transmit a digital signal 100% of the time they are transmitting an analog signal. This requirement increases the Companys operating costs. At the end of the analog to digital period, which is scheduled to occur in February 2009, these television stations will be required to cease analog transmissions. The Company is unable to predict the extent to which consumers will acquire digital television receivers or digital conversion devices for analog television receivers and the effect of the cessation of analog broadcasting on viewership. In addition, the Company is unable to predict the extent or timing of consumer demand for digital television services and the resulting impact on the Companys viewership. The U.S. Congress and the FCC currently have under consideration, and may in the future adopt, new laws, regulations, and policies regarding a wide variety of matters that could, directly or indirectly, affect the operation and ownership of the Companys radio and television properties. For example, from time to I 27 time, proposals have been advanced in the U.S. Congress and at the FCC to require radio and television broadcast stations to provide advertising time to political candidates for free or at a reduced charge. Any restrictions on political advertising may adversely affect the Companys advertising revenues. In addition, some policymakers maintain that cable operators should be required to offer a la carte programming to subscribers on a network by network basis or "family friendly" programming tiers. The FCC issued a report finding that consumers would benefit if cable operators were required to offer programming on an a la carte basis because of greater choice and the opportunity to lower bills. Unbundling packages of program services may increase both competition for carriage on distribution platforms and marketing expenses, which could adversely affect the Companys cable networks results of operations. Changes to the media ownership and other FCC rules may affect the competitive landscape in ways that could increase the competition faced by the Company. Proposals have also been advanced from time to time before the U.S. Congress and the FCC to extend the program access rules (currently applicable only to those cable program services which also own or are owned by cable distribution systems) to all cable program services. The Companys ability to obtain the most favorable terms available for its content could be adversely affected should such an extension be enacted into law. In addition, changes in international laws may have an adverse impact on the Companys international businesses. The Company is unable to predict the effect that any such laws, regulations or policies may have on its operations. Vigorous Enforcement or Enhancement of FCC Indecency and Other Program Content Rules Against the Broadcast and Cable Industries Could Have an Adverse Effect on the Companys Businesses and Results of Operations The FCCs rules prohibit the broadcast of obscene material at any time and indecent or profane material on television or radio broadcast stations between the hours of 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. Broadcasters risk violating the prohibition against broadcasting indecent material because of the vagueness of the FCCs definition of indecent material, coupled with the spontaneity of live programming. The FCC vigorously enforces its indecency rules against the broadcasting industry. The FCC has indicated that it is stepping up its enforcement activities as they apply to indecency, and has threatened to initiate license revocation proceedings against broadcast licensees for "serious" indecency violations. The FCC has found on a number of occasions that the content of radio and television broadcasts has contained indecent material. In such instances, the FCC issued fines or advisory warnings to the offending licensees. Moreover, the FCC has in some instances imposed separate fines for each allegedly indecent "utterance," in contrast with its previous policy, which generally considered all indecent words or phrases within a given program as constituting a single violation. In addition, legislation has been enacted by the U.S. Congress which significantly increases the fines for broadcasting indecent material to a maximum of $325,000 per utterance, although the FCC has not yet implemented that legislation. If the FCC denied a license renewal or revoked the license for one of the Companys broadcast radio or television stations, the Company would lose its authority to operate the station. The determination of whether content is indecent is inherently subjective and, as such, it can be difficult to predict whether particular content could violate indecency standards. The difficulty in predicting whether individual programs, words or phrases may violate the FCCs indecency rules adds significant uncertainty to the Companys ability to comply with the rules. Violation of the indecency rules could lead to sanctions which may adversely affect the Companys businesses and results of operations. Legislation has been introduced by the U.S. Congress in the past which would (i) specify that all indecency violations are "serious" violations for license renewal purposes and (ii) mandate an evidentiary hearing to consider revocation of a stations license or construction permit of any station that has had three indecency violations, whether or not "serious," during its license term. Some policymakers also support the extension of the indecency rules that are applicable to over the air broadcasters to cover cable and satellite programming and or attempts to increase enforcement of or otherwise expand existing laws and rules. If such an extension, attempt to increase enforcement or other expansion took place and were found to be constitutional, some of the Companys cable content could be subject to additional regulation and might not be able to attract the same subscription and viewership levels. I 28  The Loss of Affiliation Agreements or Retransmission Agreements Could Materially Adversely Affect the Companys Results of Operations The CBS Network provides its affiliates with up to 98 hours of programming per week. In return, the CBS Networks affiliated stations broadcast network inserted commercials during that programming. Loss of network affiliation agreements of the CBS Network could adversely affect the Companys results of operations by reducing the reach of the Companys programming and therefore its attractiveness to advertisers, and renewal on less favorable terms may also adversely affect the Companys results of operations. The non renewal or termination of retransmission agreements with distributors such as Comcast Corporation, Time Warner Cable, a division of Time Warner Inc., DIRECTV Holdings LLC, or EchoStar Communications Corporation or continued distribution on less favorable terms, could also adversely affect the Companys ability to distribute its network programming to a nationwide audience and affect the Companys ability to sell advertising, which could have a material adverse effect on the Companys results of operations. Showtime Networks and the CSTV cable network are also dependent upon the maintenance of affiliation agreements with cable and DTH satellite operators, and there can be no assurance that these affiliation agreements will be renewed in the future on terms acceptable to such programmers. The loss of one or more of these arrangements would reduce the distribution of Showtime Networks and CSTVs program services and reduce revenues from subscriber fees and advertising, as applicable. Further, the loss of favorable packaging, positioning, pricing or other marketing opportunities with any distributor could reduce revenues from subscriber fees. In addition, consolidation among cable and DTH satellite operators and increased vertical integration of such distributors into the cable or broadcast network business have provided more leverage to these providers and could adversely affect the Companys ability to maintain or obtain distribution for its network programming or distribution and or marketing of its subscription program services on favorable or commercially reasonable terms, or at all. The Failure or Destruction of Satellites and Transmitter Facilities that the Company Depends Upon to Distribute Its Programming Could Materially Adversely Affect the Companys Businesses and Results of Operations The Company uses satellite systems to transmit its broadcast and cable networks to affiliates. The distribution facilities include uplinks, communications satellites and downlinks. Transmissions may be disrupted as a result of local disasters that impair on ground uplinks or downlinks, or as a result of an impairment of a satellite. Currently, there are a limited number of communications satellites available for the transmission of programming. If a disruption occurs, the Company may not be able to secure alternate distribution facilities in a timely manner. Failure to secure alternate distribution facilities in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on the Companys businesses and results of operations. In addition, each of the Companys television and radio stations and cable networks uses studio and transmitter facilities that are subject to damage or destruction. Failure to restore such facilities in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on the Companys businesses and results of operations. The Company Could Suffer Losses Due to Asset Impairment Charges for Goodwill, Intangible Assets, FCC Licenses and Programming In accordance with SFAS 142, the Company will test goodwill and intangible assets, including broadcast licenses, for impairment during the fourth quarter of each year, and on an interim date should factors or indicators become apparent that would require an interim test. A downward revision in the fair value of a reporting unit or intangible assets could result in an impairment under SFAS 142 and a non cash charge would be required. Any significant shortfall, now or in the future, in the expected popularity of the programming for which the Company has acquired rights could lead to a downward revision in the fair value of such assets. Any such charge could have a material adverse effect on the Companys reported net earnings. I 29 The Loss of Key Personnel, Including Talent, Could Disrupt the Management or Operations of the Companys Business and Adversely Affect Its Revenues The Companys business depends upon the continued efforts, abilities and expertise of its chief executive officer and other key employees and entertainment personalities. The Company believes that the unique combination of skills and experience possessed by its executive officers would be difficult to replace, and that the loss of its executive officers could have a material adverse effect on the Company, including the impairment of the Companys ability to execute its business strategy. Additionally, the Company employs or independently contracts with several entertainment personalities and authors with significant loyal audiences. Entertainment personalities are sometimes significantly responsible for the ranking of a television or radio station and, therefore, the ability of the station to sell advertising, and an authors popularity can be significantly responsible for the success of a particular book. There can be no assurance that these entertainment personalities and authors will remain with the Company or will retain their current audiences or readership. If the Company fails to retain these entertainment personalities and authors or they lose their current audiences or readership, the Companys revenues could be adversely affected. Regulation of the Outdoor Advertising Industry Could Materially Adversely Affect the Companys Outdoor Business The outdoor advertising industry is subject to extensive governmental regulation and enforcement at the federal, state and local levels in the U.S. and to national, regional and local restrictions in foreign countries. These regulations and enforcement actions can affect the operation and continuance of operations of advertising displays and include restrictions on the construction, repair, upgrading, height, size and location of outdoor advertising structures and, in some instances, the content of advertising copy that can be displayed on these structures. In addition, in recent years, outdoor advertising has become the subject of targeted state and municipal taxes. Such laws may reduce the Companys expansion opportunities or may increase competitive pressure from others. The Company cannot give any assurance that existing or future laws or regulations will not materially and adversely affect its outdoor business. Fluctuations in Foreign Exchange Rates Could Have an Adverse Effect on the Companys Results of Operations Certain of the Companys revenues are earned and expenses are incurred in foreign currencies. The value of these currencies fluctuates relative to the U.S. dollar. As a result, the Company is exposed to exchange rate fluctuations, which could have an adverse effect on its results of operations. The Companys Liabilities Related to Discontinued Operations and Former Businesses Could Adversely Impact Its Financial Condition The Company has both recognized and potential liabilities and costs related to discontinued operations and former businesses, certain of which are unrelated to the media business, including leases, guarantees, environmental liabilities, liabilities related to the pensions and medical expenses of retirees, asbestos liabilities, contractual disputes and other pending and threatened litigation. The Company cannot assure you that its reserves are sufficient to cover these liabilities in their entirety or any one of these liabilities when it becomes due or at what point any of these liabilities may come due. Therefore, there can be no assurances that these liabilities will not have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial position, operating performance or cash flow. The Company Could Be Adversely Affected by Strikes and Other Union Activity The Company and its suppliers engage the services of writers, directors, actors and other talent, trade employees and others who are subject to collective bargaining agreements. If the Company or its suppliers are unable to renew expiring collective bargaining agreements, it is possible that the affected unions could take action in the form of strikes or work stoppages. Such actions, higher costs in connection with these agreements or a significant labor dispute could adversely affect the Companys television and radio businesses by causing delays in the production of the Companys television or radio programming or the Companys outdoor business by disrupting its ability to place advertising on outdoor faces. I 30 Political and Economic Risks Associated with the Companys International Businesses Could Harm the Companys Financial Condition or Results of Operations The Companys businesses operate and have customers worldwide. Inherent risks of doing business in international markets include, among other risks, changes in the economic environment, export restrictions, exchange controls, tariffs and other trade barriers and longer payment cycles. The Company may incur substantial expense as a result of the imposition of new restrictions or changes in the existing economic environment in the regions where it does business. In addition, acts of terrorism or other hostilities, or other future financial, political, economic or other uncertainties, could lead to a reduction in advertising expenditures, which could materially adversely affect the Companys business, financial condition or results of operations. NAI, Through Its Voting Control of the Company, Is in a Position to Control Actions that Require Stockholder Approval NAI, through its beneficial ownership of the Companys Class A Common Stock, has voting control of the Company. Mr. Sumner M. Redstone, the controlling stockholder, chairman of the board of directors and chief executive officer of NAI, serves as Executive Chairman of the Companys Board of Directors, and Ms. Shari Redstone, the president and a director of NAI, serves as Vice Chair of the Companys Board of Directors. In addition, Mr. David R. Andelman is a director of NAI and serves as a director of the Company. NAI is in a position to control the outcome of corporate actions that require stockholder approval, including the election of directors and transactions involving a change of control. Other stockholders are unable to affect the outcome of the corporate actions of the Company for so long as NAI retains voting control. Many Factors May Cause the Stock Price of the Companys Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock to Fluctuate The stock price of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock may fluctuate significantly as a result of many factors. These factors, some or all of which are beyond the Companys control, include: lack of a significant trading history since the Separation; actual or anticipated fluctuations in CBS Corp.s operating results; changes in expectations as to CBS Corp.s future financial performance or changes in financial estimates of securities analysts; success of CBS Corp.s operating and growth strategies; investor anticipation of strategic, technological or regulatory threats, whether or not warranted by actual events; operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies; and realization of any of the risks described in these risk factors. In addition, the stock market has experienced volatility that often has been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the trading prices of the Companys common stock, regardless of the Companys actual operating performance. Risks Related to the Separation The Businesses of the Company and Viacom Inc. Will Be Attributable to the Other Company for Certain Regulatory Purposes So long as the Company and Viacom Inc. are under common control, each companys businesses, as well as the businesses of any other commonly controlled company, will be attributable to the other company for purposes of certain rules and regulations of the FCC and certain rules regarding political campaign contributions in the U.S., among others potentially. The businesses of one company will continue to be attributable to the other company for certain FCC purposes even after the two companies cease to be commonly controlled, if the two companies share common officers, directors, or attributable stockholders. I 31 As a result, the businesses and conduct of Viacom Inc. may have the effect of limiting the activities or strategic business alternatives available to the Company. The Separation Agreement Prohibits the Company from Engaging in Certain Types of Businesses Under the terms of the Separation Agreement entered into between the Company and Viacom Inc. in connection with the Separation, the Company may not make acquisitions, enter into agreements or accept or agree to any condition that purports to bind Viacom Inc. or subjects Viacom Inc. to restrictions it is not otherwise subject to by legal order without Viacom Inc.s consent. The Company and Viacom Inc. have agreed that prior to the earliest of (1) the fourth anniversary of the Separation, (2) the date on which none of Mr. Redstone, NAI, NAIRI, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of NAI, or any of their successors, assigns or transferees are deemed to have interests in both the Company and Viacom Inc. that are attributable under applicable U.S. federal laws and (3) the date on which the other company ceases to own the video programming vendors that it owns as of the Separation, neither of them will own or acquire an interest in a cable television operator if such ownership would subject the other company to U.S. federal laws regulating contractual relationships between video programming vendors and video programming distributors that the other company is not then subject to. These restrictions could limit the strategic business alternatives available to the Company. The Tax Matters Agreement and the Tax Rules Applicable to the Separation May Restrict the Companys Ability to Engage in Certain Corporate Transactions In connection with the Separation, the Company and Viacom Inc. entered into a tax matters agreement dated December 30, 2005, which is filed as an exhibit to this report, effective as of the Separation (the "Tax Matters Agreement"). The Tax Matters Agreement provides, among other things, that, depending on the event, Viacom Inc. may have to indemnify the Company, or the Company may have to indemnify Viacom Inc., for some or all of the taxes resulting from the merger and the distribution of Viacom Inc. common stock in the merger if the merger and distribution do not qualify as a tax free distribution under Sections 355 and 368 of the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"). In addition, the current U.S. federal income tax law creates a presumption that the distribution of Viacom Inc. common stock in the merger would be taxable to Former Viacom, but not to its stockholders, if either Viacom Inc. or the Company engages in, or enters into an agreement to engage in, a transaction that would result in a 50% or greater change, by vote or value, in the Companys or Viacom Inc.s stock ownership during the four year period that begins two years before the date of the Separation, unless it is established that the transaction was not undertaken pursuant to a plan or series of transactions related to the Separation. The Treasury Regulations currently in effect generally provide that whether such distribution is part of a plan is determined based on all of the facts and circumstances, including, but not limited to, specific factors described in the Treasury Regulations. In addition, the Treasury Regulations provide several "safe harbors" for acquisition transactions that are not considered to be part of a plan. The indemnification obligations set forth in the Tax Matters Agreement and the above described provisions of the tax law may prevent the Company from entering into transactions which might be advantageous to its stockholders, such as issuing equity securities to satisfy financing needs or acquiring businesses or assets with equity securities, and may make the Company less attractive to a potential acquirer and reduce the possibility that an acquirer will propose or seek to effect certain transactions with the Company. If the Merger Is Determined to Be Taxable, the Company and Its Stockholders Could Be Subject to a Material Amount of Taxes Former Viacom received an opinion of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP and a private letter ruling from the U.S. Internal Revenue Service ("IRS"), in each case, to the effect that, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the merger and the distribution of Viacom Inc. common stock in the merger qualified as a tax free distribution under Sections 355 and 368 of the Code and the distribution of the Companys common stock in the merger was also generally tax free to Former Viacom and its stockholders. In accordance with current IRS ruling policy, the IRS ruling does not address certain significant issues relating to qualification under Section 355 of the Code and, as to those issues, Former Viacom relied on an I 32 opinion of counsel. The merger was structured to be tax free for U.S. federal income tax purposes to Former Viacom stockholders, except with respect to cash received in lieu of fractional shares of CBS Corp. common stock. The merger was also tax free to the Company for U.S. federal income tax purposes, except with respect to taxes arising out of foreign and other internal restructurings undertaken in connection with the Separation and any "excess loss account" or "intercompany transaction" required to be taken into account by Former Viacom under the Treasury Regulations. The IRS ruling was based on the facts presented and representations made by Former Viacom in the ruling request. Generally, an IRS private letter ruling will not be revoked or modified retroactively unless there was an omission or misstatement of a material fact or a breach of a material representation. If the facts or representations are found to be incorrect or incomplete in a material respect or if the facts at the time of the Separation were materially different from the facts upon which the IRS ruling was based, the Company cannot rely on the IRS ruling. An opinion of counsel is not binding on the IRS or any court and is also based on representations and assumptions included therein. If the factual representations and assumptions were incorrect, the Company cannot rely on the tax opinion. If the merger is determined to be taxable, the Company and its stockholders who received shares of CBS Corp. common stock would be subject to a material amount of taxes. CBS Corp. will not indemnify any individual stockholder for any taxes that may be incurred in connection with the Separation. In Connection with the Separation, Each Company Will Rely on the Other Companys Performance Under Various Agreements Between the Companies In connection with the Separation, the Company and Viacom Inc. entered into various agreements, including the Separation Agreement, the Tax Matters Agreement, a transition services agreement pursuant to which the Company and Viacom Inc. have agreed to provide certain specified services to each other following the Separation (the "transition services agreement") and certain related party arrangements pursuant to which the Company and Viacom Inc. will provide services and products to each other from and after the Separation. The Separation Agreement sets forth the allocation of assets, liabilities, rights and obligations of the Company and Viacom Inc. following the Separation, and includes indemnification obligations for such liabilities and obligations. In addition, pursuant to the Tax Matters Agreement, certain income tax liabilities and related responsibilities are allocated between, and indemnification obligations are assumed by, each of the Company and New Viacom. Each company will rely on the other to satisfy its performance and payment obligations under these agreements. Certain of the liabilities to be assumed or indemnified by the Company or Viacom Inc. under these agreements are legal or contractual liabilities of the other company. If Viacom Inc. were to breach or be unable to satisfy its material obligations under these agreements, including a failure to satisfy its indemnification obligations, the Company could suffer operational difficulties or significant losses. Certain Members of Management, Directors and Stockholders May Face Actual or Potential Conflicts of Interest The management and directors of the Company own both CBS Corp. common stock and Viacom Inc. common stock, and both the Company and Viacom Inc. are controlled by NAI. Mr. Redstone, the controlling stockholder, chairman of the board of directors and chief executive officer of NAI, serves as Executive Chairman of the Companys Board of Directors and executive chairman of Viacom Inc.s board of directors. Ms. Redstone, the president and a director of NAI, serves as Vice Chair of the Board of Directors of each of the Company and Viacom Inc. Mr. David R. Andelman is a director of NAI and serves as a director of the Company. This ownership overlap and these common directors could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when the Companys and Viacom Inc.s management, directors and controlling stockholder face decisions that could have different implications for the Company and Viacom Inc. For example, potential conflicts of interest could arise in connection with the resolution of any dispute between the Company and Viacom Inc. regarding the terms of the agreements governing the Separation and the relationship between the Company and Viacom Inc. thereafter. These agreements include, among others, the Separation Agreement, the Tax Matters Agreement, the transition services agreement and any commercial agreements between the parties or their affiliates. Potential conflicts of I 33 interest could also arise if the Company and Viacom Inc. enter into any commercial arrangements with each other in the future. Each of Mr. Redstone and Ms. Redstone may also face conflicts of interest with regard to the allocation of his or her time between the Company and Viacom Inc. CBS Corp.s certificate of incorporation contains provisions related to corporate opportunities that may be of interest to both the Company and Viacom Inc. CBS Corp.s certificate of incorporation provides that in the event that a director, officer or controlling stockholder of the Company who is also a director, officer or controlling stockholder of Viacom Inc. acquires knowledge of a potential corporate opportunity for both the Company and Viacom Inc., such director, officer or controlling stockholder may present such opportunity to the Company or Viacom Inc. or both, as such director, officer or controlling stockholder deems appropriate in his or her sole discretion, and that by doing so such person will have satisfied his or her fiduciary duties to the Company and its stockholders. In addition, CBS Corp.s certificate of incorporation provides that it renounces any interest in any such opportunity presented to Viacom Inc. These provisions create the possibility that a corporate opportunity of one of such companies may be used for the benefit of the other company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. Item 2. Properties. The Company maintains its world headquarters at 51 West 52nd Street, New York, New York, where it owns a building containing approximately 900,000 square feet of office space, of which approximately 340,000 square feet is occupied by the Company, with the balance being leased to third parties. The Company owns the CBS Broadcast Center complex located on approximately 3.7 acres at 524 West 57th Street, New York, New York, which consists of approximately 860,000 square feet of office and studio space. The Company also owns two studio facilities in California: (a) the CBS Studio Center at 4024 Radford Avenue, Studio City, California, located on approximately 40 acres, and (b) CBS Television City at 7800 Beverly Boulevard, Los Angeles, California, located on approximately 25 acres. In connection with the Separation, the Company leases or subleases from Viacom Inc. subsidiaries the following facilities for certain of its operating divisions: (a) office and studio space at 1515 Broadway, New York, New York, (b) office space at 1633 Broadway, New York, New York and (c) office and tape storage space at the Paramount Pictures Studio, 5555 Melrose Avenue, Los Angeles, California. Simon & Schuster leases approximately 290,000 square feet of office space at 1230 Avenue of the Americas, New York, New York, which lease runs to 2014. In December 2006, the Company entered into a lease through 2027 for approximately 80,000 square feet at 345 Hudson Street, New York, New York, for four of its radio stations. The Company and its subsidiaries also own and lease office, studio and warehouse space, broadcast, antenna and satellite transmission facilities and outdoor advertising properties throughout the U.S., Canada and several countries around the world for its businesses. The Company considers its properties adequate for its present needs. Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Shareholder Derivative Lawsuits and Demands. Two shareholder derivative lawsuits, consolidated as In re Viacom Shareholders Derivative Litigation, were filed in July 2005 in New York State Supreme Court relating to executive compensation and alleged corporate waste. The actions name each member of Former Viacoms Board of Directors, Messrs. Tom Freston and Leslie Moonves (each of whom were executive officers of Former Viacom), and, as a nominal defendant, Former Viacom, alleging that the 2004 compensation of Messrs. Redstone, Freston and Moonves was excessive and unwarranted and challenging the independence of certain Former Viacom directors. Mr. Redstone is the Companys Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors and Founder and Mr. Moonves is the Companys President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Freston was formerly Viacom Inc.s President and Chief Executive Officer. I 34 Plaintiffs seek unspecified damages from the members of the Former Viacom Board of Directors for their alleged breach of fiduciary duties, disgorgement of the 2004 compensation paid to the above named officers of Former Viacom, equitable relief, and attorney fees and expenses. The Company moved to dismiss the complaints and oral argument was heard on February 16, 2006. On June 26, 2006, the court denied the Companys motion to dismiss. The Companys appeal from that decision was argued on January 5, 2007, and the Company is awaiting a decision. The trial court proceedings have been stayed pending the resolution of the Companys appeal. On January 23, 2007, a new shareholder derivative action was filed in New York Supreme Court, which contains allegations similar to those in earlier actions. Any liabilities in this matter adverse to the Company and or Viacom Inc. will be shared equally between the Company and Viacom Inc. The Company believes that the plaintiffs positions in these actions are without merit and it intends to vigorously defend itself in the litigation. The Company has received shareholder demands seeking access to books and records of the Company relating to executive compensation paid to Sumner M. Redstone, Tom Freston and Leslie Moonves, accompanied by statements that such demands are in furtherance of an investigation of possible mismanagement, self dealing and corporate waste by directors and officers of Former Viacom. Another shareholder demand seeking access to books and records relates to the compensation of Sumner M. Redstone and Mel Karmazin (former Chief Operating Officer of Former Viacom). One of the demands also seeks access to books and records of the Company relating to Sumner M. Redstones acquisition of a controlling interest in Midway Games Inc. The Company intends to comply with all reasonable requests. Under the Separation Agreement between the Company and Viacom Inc., liabilities in connection with executive compensation claims relating to officers of Former Viacom are shared equally by the Company and Viacom Inc. Claims Related to Former Businesses: Asbestos, Environmental and Other. The Company is a defendant in lawsuits claiming various personal injuries related to asbestos and other materials, which allegedly occurred principally as a result of exposure caused by various products manufactured by Westinghouse, a predecessor, generally prior to the early 1970s. Westinghouse was neither a producer nor a manufacturer of asbestos. The Company is typically named as one of a large number of defendants in both state and federal cases. In the majority of asbestos lawsuits, the plaintiffs have not identified which of the Companys products is the basis of a claim. Claims against the Company in which a product has been identified principally relate to exposures allegedly caused by asbestos containing insulating material in turbines sold for power generation, industrial and marine use, or by asbestos containing grades of decorative micarta, a laminate used in commercial ships. Claims are frequently filed and or settled in large groups, which may make the amount and timing of settlements, and the number of pending claims, subject to significant fluctuation from period to period. The Company does not report as pending those claims on inactive, stayed, deferred or similar dockets which some jurisdictions have established for claimants who allege minimal or no impairment. As of December 31, 2006, the Company had pending approximately 73,310 asbestos claims, as compared with approximately 101,170 as of December 31, 2005 and approximately 112,140 as of December 31, 2004. Of the claims pending as of December 31, 2006, approximately 49,630 were pending in state courts, 21,020 in federal courts and, additionally, approximately 2,660 were third party claims pending in state courts. During 2006, the Company received approximately 6,470 new claims and closed or moved to an inactive docket approximately 34,330 claims. The Company reports claims as closed when it becomes aware that a dismissal order has been entered by a court or when the Company has reached agreement with the claimants on the material terms of a settlement. Settlement costs depend on the seriousness of the injuries that form the basis of the claim, the quality of evidence supporting the claims and other factors. To date, the Company has not been liable for any third party claims. The Companys total costs for the years 2006 and 2005 for settlement and defense of asbestos claims after insurance recoveries and net of tax benefits were approximately $5.7 million and $37.2 million, respectively. The Companys costs for settlement and defense of asbestos claims may vary year to year as insurance proceeds are not always recovered in the same period as the insured portion of the expenses. I 35 Filings include claims for individuals suffering from mesothelioma, a rare cancer, the risk of which is allegedly increased primarily by exposure to asbestos; lung cancer, a cancer which may be caused by various factors, one of which is alleged to be asbestos exposure; other cancers, and conditions that are substantially less serious, including claims brought on behalf of individuals who are asymptomatic as to an allegedly asbestos related disease. Claims identified as cancer remain a small percentage of asbestos claims pending at December 31, 2006. In a substantial number of the pending claims, the plaintiff has not yet identified the claimed injury. The Company believes that its reserves and insurance are adequate to cover its asbestos liabilities. The Company from time to time receives claims from federal and state environmental regulatory agencies and other entities asserting that it is or may be liable for environmental cleanup costs and related damages principally relating to historical and predecessor operations of the Company. In addition, the Company from time to time receives personal injury claims including toxic tort and product liability claims (other than asbestos) arising from historical operations of the Company and its predecessors. On an ongoing basis, the Company defends itself in a multitude of lawsuits and proceedings and responds to various investigations and inquiries from federal, state and local authorities (collectively, "litigation"). Litigation is inherently uncertain and always difficult to predict. However, based on its understanding and evaluation of the relevant facts and circumstances, the Company believes that the above described legal matters and other litigation to which it is a party are not likely, in the aggregate, to have a material adverse effect on its results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Under the Separation Agreement between the Company and Viacom Inc., Viacom Inc. has agreed to defend and indemnify the Company in certain litigation in which the Company is named. Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders. None. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY Set forth below is certain information concerning the executive officers of the Company as of March 1, 2007. Name Age Title Sumner M. Redstone 83 Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors and Founder Leslie Moonves 57 President and Chief Executive Officer and Director Anthony G. Ambrosio 46 Executive Vice President, Human Resources and Administration Louis J. Briskman 58 Executive Vice President and General Counsel Martin D. Franks 56 Executive Vice President, Planning, Policy and Government Relations Susan C. Gordon 53 Senior Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer Joseph R. Ianniello 39 Senior Vice President, Finance and Treasurer Richard M. Jones 41 Senior Vice President and General Tax Counsel Fredric G. Reynolds 56 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Gil Schwartz 55 Executive Vice President and Chief Communications Officer Martin M. Shea 63 Executive Vice President, Investor Relations Angeline C. Straka 61 Senior Vice President, Deputy General Counsel and Secretary None of the executive officers of the Company is related to any other executive officer or director by blood, marriage or adoption except that Shari Redstone, Vice Chair of the Board of Directors of the Company, is the daughter of Sumner M. Redstone. Mr. Redstone is the Companys Founder and has been Executive Chairman of the Board of the Company since the Separation. He was Chairman of the Board of Former Viacom from 1987 until the I 36 Separation and Chief Executive Officer of Former Viacom since 1996 through the Separation. Mr. Redstone has also served as Chairman of the Board of NAI since 1986 and Chief Executive Officer of NAI since 1967. He served as President of NAI from 1967 through 1999. Mr. Redstone served as the first Chairman of the Board of the National Association of Theatre Owners and is currently a member of its Board, Emeritus. Mr. Redstone has been a frequent lecturer at universities, including Harvard Law School, and was formerly a visiting professor of Brandeis University. Mr. Redstone graduated from Harvard University in 1944 and received a LL.B. from Harvard University School of Law in 1947. Upon graduation, Mr. Redstone served as Law Secretary with the United States Court of Appeals and then as a Special Assistant to the United States Attorney General. Mr. Redstone served in the Military Intelligence Division during World War II. While a student at Harvard, he was selected to join a special intelligence group whose mission was to break Japans high level military and diplomatic codes. Mr. Redstone received, among other honors, two commendations from the Military Intelligence Division in recognition of his service, contribution and devotion to duty. He is also a recipient of the Army Commendation Award. Mr. Redstone also serves as Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors of Viacom Inc. Mr. Moonves has been President and Chief Executive Officer and a Director of the Company since the Separation. Previously, Mr. Moonves served as Co President and Co Chief Operating Officer of Former Viacom since June 2004. Prior to that, Mr. Moonves served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of CBS since 2003 and as its President and Chief Executive Officer since 1998. Mr. Moonves joined former CBS Corporation in 1995 as President, CBS Entertainment. Prior to that, Mr. Moonves was President of Warner Bros. Television since July 1993. Mr. Ambrosio has been Executive Vice President, Human Resources and Administration of the Company since the Separation. Previously, he served as Co Executive Vice President, Human Resources of Former Viacom since September 2005 and as Senior Vice President, Human Resources and Administration of the CBS, Infinity and Viacom Outdoor businesses since 2000. Prior to that, Mr. Ambrosio served as Vice President, Corporate Human Resources of the former CBS Corporation from 1999 to 2000, as Vice President, Benefits of the former CBS Corporation from 1995 to November 1999 and as Director, Personnel of the former CBS Corporation in 1995. He joined the former CBS Corporation in 1985 and held various positions in the human resources area since that time. Mr. Briskman has been Executive Vice President and General Counsel of the Company since the Separation. Previously, since September 2005, he served as Executive Vice President and General Counsel of the businesses that comprise the Company after the Separation. Prior to that, Mr. Briskman served as Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Aetna Inc. since April 2004 and as Executive Vice President and General Counsel for CBS Television from 2000 to 2002. From 1993 to 2000, Mr. Briskman served as General Counsel of the former CBS Corporation and its predecessor, Westinghouse Electric Corporation. He joined Westinghouse Electric Corporation in 1975 and became its General Counsel in 1993 after serving as General Counsel of its Group W division beginning in 1983. Mr. Franks has been Executive Vice President, Planning, Policy and Government Relations of the Company since the Separation. Previously, he served as Executive Vice President, CBS Television since 2000 and was also Senior Vice President of Former Viacom from 2000 to 2005. Prior to that, Mr. Franks served as Senior Vice President of the former CBS Corporation from 1997 to 2000, as Senior Vice President, Washington of the former CBS Corporation from 1994 to 1997, and as Vice President, Washington of the former CBS Corporation from 1988 to 1994. Ms. Gordon has been Senior Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of the Company since the Separation. Prior to that, she served as Senior Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of Former Viacom from May 2002 until the Separation, as Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer from April 1995 to May 2002 and as Vice President, Internal Audit of Former Viacom from October 1986 to April 1995. Ms. Gordon served as Controller of Viacom Broadcasting from June 1985 to October 1986. Ms. Gordon joined Former Viacom in 1981. I 37 Mr. Ianniello has been Senior Vice President, Finance and Treasurer of the Company since the Separation. Prior to that, he served as Senior Vice President and Treasurer of Former Viacom since July 2005, as Vice President, Corporate Development of Former Viacom from 2000 to 2005 and as Director, Financial Planning of the former CBS Corporation from 1997 to 2000. Mr. Jones has been Senior Vice President and General Tax Counsel of the Company since the Separation and for Former Viacom in December 2005. Previously, he served as Vice President of Tax, Assistant Treasurer and Tax Counsel for NBC Universal, Inc. since 2003. Prior to that, he spent 13 years with Ernst & Young in their media & entertainment and transaction advisory services practices. Mr. Jones also served honorably as a non commissioned officer in the U.S. Armys 75th Ranger Regiment. Mr. Reynolds has been Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company since the Separation. Previously, Mr. Reynolds served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the businesses that comprise the Company after the Separation and President of the CBS Television Stations Group since 2001. Prior to that, Mr. Reynolds served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Former Viacom from 2000 to 2001 and served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the former CBS Corporation and its predecessor, Westinghouse Electric Corporation, from 1994 to 2000. Mr. Reynolds was Chief Financial Officer of CBS Inc. from April 1996 to 1997. Mr. Schwartz has been Executive Vice President and Chief Communications Officer of the Company since the Separation. Previously, he was Executive Vice President of CBS Communications Group, which served the Companys broadcast and local television, syndication, radio and outdoor operations, among others, from 2004 until the Separation. He was Senior Vice President, Communications of CBS from 2000 to 2004, and Senior Vice President, Communications of the former CBS Corporation from 1996 to 2000. Mr. Schwartz served as Vice President, Corporate Communications of Westinghouse Broadcasting from 1995 to 1996. Prior to that, Mr. Schwartz served as Vice President, Communications for Westinghouse Broadcastings Group W Television Stations from 1989 to 1995. Mr. Schwartz joined Westinghouse Broadcasting in 1981. Mr. Shea has been Executive Vice President, Investor Relations of the Company since the Separation and for Former Viacom since November 2004. Prior to that, he served as Senior Vice President, Investor Relations of Former Viacom since January 1998. Mr. Shea was Senior Vice President, Corporation Communications for Triarc Companies, Inc. from July 1994 to May 1995 and from November 1995 to December 1997. He served as Managing Director of Edelman Worldwide from June 1995 through October 1995. Mr. Shea held various Investor Relations positions at Paramount Communications Inc., serving most recently as Vice President, Investor Relations from 1977 until July 1994. Ms. Straka has been Senior Vice President, Deputy General Counsel and Secretary of the Company since the Separation. Prior to that, Ms. Straka served as Vice President and Associate General Counsel and Co Head of the Corporate, Transactions and Securities practice group in the corporate law department of Former Viacom. Prior to joining the Former Viacom corporate law department in February 2001, Ms. Straka served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Infinity Broadcasting Corporation, then a majority owned public subsidiary of Former Viacom, from May 2000. Ms. Straka was Vice President, Deputy General Counsel and Secretary of the former CBS Corporation and its predecessor, Westinghouse Electric Corporation, since 1992 and up to the time of the May 2000 merger of Former Viacom and the former CBS Corporation. I 38   PART II Item 5. Market for CBS Corporations Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Purchases of Equity Securities. The separation of former Viacom Inc. ("Former Viacom") into two publicly traded entities, CBS Corporation (together with its consolidated subsidiaries unless the context otherwise requires, the "Company" or "CBS Corp.") and new Viacom Inc. ("Viacom Inc."), was completed on December 31, 2005 (the "Separation"). The Separation was accomplished pursuant to a merger in which a subsidiary of Former Viacom was merged with and into Former Viacom, with Former Viacom continuing as the surviving entity. On December 31, 2005, Former Viacom was renamed "CBS Corporation" and each outstanding share of Former Viacom class A common stock was converted into the right to receive .5 of a share of CBS Corporation class A common stock, $0.001 par value ("Class A Common Stock"), and .5 of a share of Viacom Inc. class A common stock and each outstanding share of Former Viacom class B common stock was converted into the right to receive .5 of a share of CBS Corporation class B common stock, $0.001 par value ("Class B Common Stock"), and .5 of a share of Viacom Inc. class B common stock. As a result of the one share for .5 share conversion ("Share Conversion"), all Former Viacom share and per share data have been adjusted for prior year periods presented, unless otherwise indicated. Shares of CBS Corp. commenced trading on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") on January 3, 2006, under the symbols: "CBS.A" (CBS Corporation Class A Common Stock) and "CBS" (CBS Corporation Class B Common Stock). There was no established trading market for CBS Corp. Class A and Class B Common Stock prior to its commencement of trading on January 3, 2006. The following table sets forth, for the calendar periods indicated, the per share range of high and low sales prices for CBS Corp.s Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock, as reported on the NYSE. Voting Class A Common Stock Non Voting Class B Common Stock High Low High Low 2006 1st quarter $ 27.51 $ 23.86 $ 27.45 $ 23.85 2nd quarter $ 27.77 $ 24.13 $ 27.24 $ 24.05 3rd quarter $ 29.75 $ 25.55 $ 29.78 $ 25.53 4th quarter $ 32.01 $ 27.72 $ 32.04 $ 27.33 On February 27, 2007, the Company announced a 10% increase to its quarterly cash dividend from $.20 to $.22 per share. The dividend is payable on April 1, 2007, to stockholders of record as of March 7, 2007. CBS Corp. currently expects to continue to pay a regular cash dividend to its stockholders. The Company declared a quarterly cash dividend on its Class A and Class B Common Stock during each of the four quarters of 2006 for a total of $573.2 million. Former Viacom declared a quarterly cash dividend on its common stock during each of the four quarters of 2005 for a total of $440.9 million. On February 27, 2007, the Company announced a stock purchase program under which the Company is authorized to purchase $1.5 billion of its Class B Common Stock. The Company expects to effect the buyback through an accelerated share repurchase program during March 2007. During 2006, the Company did not purchase any shares under its $8.0 billion stock purchase program which has remaining authorization of $579.8 million. As of February 15, 2007, there were approximately 1,899 record holders of CBS Corp. Class A Common Stock and approximately 30,093 record holders of CBS Corp. Class B Common Stock. These numbers do not include holders of Former Viacom common stock who had not exchanged as of February 15, 2007, shares of Former Viacom for shares of CBS Corp. II 1 Information required by this item is also contained in the CBS Corp. Proxy Statement for the Companys 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders under the heading "Equity Compensation Plan Information," which information is incorporated herein by reference. Performance Graph The following graph compares the cumulative total stockholder return on CBS Corp. Class A Common Stock and CBS Corp. Class B Common Stock with the cumulative total return on the companies listed in the Standard & Poors 500 Stock Index and a Peer Group of companies identified below. The performance graph assumes $100 invested on December 31, 2001 in each of the Class A Common Stock of CBS Corp., the Class B Common Stock of CBS Corp., the S&P 500 Index and the Peer Group identified below, including reinvestment of dividends, through the calendar year ended December 31, 2006.  Total Cumulative Stockholder Return For Five Year Period Ending December 31, 2006 December 31, 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 CBS Corp. Class A Common Stock $ 100.0 $ 92.23 $ 100.34 $ 84.61 $ 75.37 $ 94.52 CBS Corp. Class B Common Stock $ 100.0 $ 92.32 $ 100.82 $ 83.23 $ 75.18 $ 96.24 S&P 500 $ 100.0 $ 77.90 $ 100.20 $ 111.10 $ 116.60 $ 135.00 Peer Group $ 100.0 $ 60.48 $ 81.82 $ 85.03 $ 75.26 $ 98.09 * The Peer Group consists of the following companies: The Walt Disney Company; The News Corp. Ltd (ADRs); Time Warner Inc. (formerly AOL Time Warner); Tribune Company; and Clear Channel Communications, Inc. II 2 Item 6. Selected Financial Data. CBS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES (In millions, except per share amounts) Year Ended December 31,(a) 2006 2005(b)(c) 2004(b)(c)(d) 2003(b) 2002(b)(e) Revenues $ 14,320.2 $ 14,113.0 $ 14,138.3 $ 13,179.0 $ 12,789.5 Operating income (loss) $ 2,606.4 $ (6,869.5 ) $ (15,201.6 ) $ 2,473.8 $ 2,538.5 Net earnings (loss) from continuing operations $ 1,382.9 $ (8,360.6 ) $ (16,428.7 ) $ 1,089.7 $ 1,057.7 Net earnings from discontinued operations $ 277.6 $ 1,271.5 $ 278.9 $ 345.7 $ 1,148.9 Net earnings (loss) before cumulative effect of accounting changes $ 1,660.5 $ (7,089.1 ) $ (16,149.8 ) $ 1,435.4 $ 2,206.6 Net earnings (loss) $ 1,660.5 $ (7,089.1 ) $ (17,462.2 ) $ 1,416.9 $ 725.7 Basic earnings (loss) per common share Net earnings (loss) from continuing operations $ 1.81 $ (10.59 ) $ (19.17 ) $ 1.25 $ 1.21 Net earnings from discontinued operations $ .36 $ 1.61 $ .33 $ .40 $ 1.31 Net earnings (loss) before cumulative effect of accounting changes $ 2.17 $ (8.98 ) $ (18.84 ) $ 1.65 $ 2.52 Net earnings (loss) $ 2.17 $ (8.98 ) $ (20.37 ) $ 1.62 $ .83 Diluted earnings (loss) per common share Net earnings (loss) from continuing operations $ 1.79 $ (10.59 ) $ (19.17 ) $ 1.24 $ 1.19 Net earnings from discontinued operations $ .36 $ 1.61 $ .33 $ .39 $ 1.29 Net earnings (loss) before cumulative effect of accounting changes $ 2.15 $ (8.98 ) $ (18.84 ) $ 1.63 $ 2.49 Net earnings (loss) $ 2.15 $ (8.98 ) $ (20.37 ) $ 1.61 $ .82 Dividends per common share $ .74 $ .56 $ .50 $ .24 $ At Year End: Total assets: Continuing operations $ 43,225.6 $ 42,006.4 $ 49,280.9 $ 67,064.2 $ 67,480.5 Discontinued operations $ 283.2 $ 1,023.2 $ 18,721.4 $ 23,161.3 $ 23,016.4 Total assets $ 43,508.8 $ 43,029.6 $ 68,002.3 $ 90,225.5 $ 90,496.9 Total debt: Continuing operations $ 7,042.3 $ 7,900.3 $ 9,363.6 $ 9,451.2 $ 9,665.0 Discontinued operations $ 83.0 $ 153.2 $ 553.4 $ 630.0 $ 940.9 Total stockholders equity $ 23,522.5 $ 21,737.0 $ 42,024.3 $ 63,205.0 $ 62,487.8 (a)On June 30, 2006, CBS Corporation (the "Company" or "CBS Corp.") sold Paramount Parks to Cedar Fair, L.P. for $1.24 billion in cash. As a result, Paramount Parks is presented as a discontinued operation in the Companys consolidated financial statements for all periods presented. (b)On December 31, 2005, the separation of former Viacom Inc. ("Former Viacom") into two publicly traded entities, CBS Corp. and new Viacom Inc. ("Viacom Inc."), was completed (the "Separation"). Each outstanding share of Former Viacom common stock was converted into the right to receive .5 of a share of CBS Corp. Common Stock and .5 of a share of Viacom Inc. common stock and as a result, all share and per share data of Former Viacom have been adjusted for all periods presented. CBS Corp. has accounted for the Separation as a spin off of Viacom Inc. and, accordingly, the results of Viacom Inc. have been presented as a discontinued operation in the Companys consolidated financial statements. (c)In 2005, as a result of the Companys annual goodwill impairment test performed in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" ("SFAS 142"), a non cash charge of $9.48 billion ($9.46 billion, net of tax), or $11.98 per diluted share, was recorded to reduce the carrying amount of Television and Radio goodwill to their respective estimated fair values. In 2004, as a result of the Companys annual goodwill impairment test, a non cash charge of $18.0 billion ($17.89 billion, net of tax), or $20.87 per diluted share, was recorded to reduce the carrying amount of Radio and Outdoor goodwill and intangible assets to their respective estimated fair values. (d)In 2004, as a result of the initial adoption of Emerging Issues Task Force Topic No. D 108 "Use of Residual Method to Value Acquired Assets Other than Goodwill," the Company recorded an after tax charge of $1.31 billion, or $1.53 per diluted share, as a cumulative effect of accounting change, to reduce the intangible asset balances attributable to television stations FCC licenses. (e)In 2002, the initial adoption of SFAS 142 resulted in an after tax non cash charge of $1.48 billion, recorded as a cumulative effect of accounting change. II 3 Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Managements discussion and analysis of the results of operations and financial condition should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related Notes. Descriptions of all documents incorporated by reference herein or included as exhibits hereto are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of such documents so incorporated or included. Please see Item 1A. Risk Factors in Part I of this report for the Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward Looking Statements and Risk Factors. Separation The separation of former Viacom Inc. ("Former Viacom") into two publicly traded entities, CBS Corporation (together with its consolidated subsidiaries unless the context otherwise requires, the "Company" or "CBS Corp.") and new Viacom Inc. ("Viacom Inc.") was completed on December 31, 2005 (the "Separation"). The Separation was accomplished pursuant to a merger in which a subsidiary of Former Viacom was merged with and into Former Viacom, with Former Viacom continuing as the surviving entity. On December 31, 2005, Former Viacom was renamed "CBS Corporation" and each outstanding share of Former Viacom class A common stock was converted into the right to receive .5 of a share of CBS Corp. class A common stock, $0.001 par value ("Class A Common Stock"), and .5 of a share of Viacom Inc. class A common stock and each outstanding share of Former Viacom class B common stock was converted into the right to receive .5 of a share of CBS Corp. class B common stock, $0.001 par value ("Class B Common Stock"), and .5 of a share of Viacom Inc. class B common stock. As a result of the one share for .5 share conversion ("Share Conversion"), all Former Viacom share and per share data have been adjusted for prior year periods presented, unless otherwise indicated. The results of Viacom Inc. have been presented as discontinued operations for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. In connection with the Separation, CBS Corp. and Viacom Inc. entered into a separation agreement (the "Separation Agreement"). In accordance with the terms of the Separation Agreement, Viacom Inc. paid to the Company an estimated special dividend of $5.4 billion in December 2005. Pursuant to the provisions of the Separation Agreement, the estimated special dividend was subject to adjustment. During 2006, Viacom Inc. paid to the Company the net undisputed adjustment to the special dividend of $172 million plus net interest of $3.1 million. In January 2007, CBS Corp. and Viacom Inc. resolved the remaining disputed items with respect to the special dividend and Viacom Inc. paid to the Company an additional $170 million, resulting in an aggregate adjustment to the special dividend of $342 million. Overview CBS Corp. is comprised of the following segments: Television, Radio, Outdoor and Publishing. On June 30, 2006, the Company sold Paramount Parks to Cedar Fair, L.P. for $1.24 billion in cash. As a result, Paramount Parks is presented as a discontinued operation in the consolidated financial statements for all periods presented. II 4  Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) CBS Corp. operates in the following segments: TELEVISION: The Television segment consists of CBS Television, comprised of the CBS Network, the Companys owned television stations, and its television production and syndication operations; Showtime Networks; and CSTV Networks. Television revenues are generated primarily from advertising sales, television license fees and affiliate revenues. Television contributed 66% to consolidated revenues for each of the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, and 67% for the year ended December 31, 2004. RADIO: The Radio segment owns radio stations in most of the large U.S. markets. Radio revenues are generated primarily from advertising sales. During 2006, the Company entered into agreements to sell 39 radio stations in ten of its smaller markets. Radio contributed 14% to consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006 and 15% for each of the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. OUTDOOR: The Outdoor segment, principally through CBS Outdoor, displays advertising on media including billboards, transit shelters, buses, rail systems (in car, station platforms and terminals), mall kiosks, masts and stadium signage. Outdoor revenues are generated primarily from advertising sales. Outdoor contributed 15%, 14% and 13% to consolidated revenues for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. PUBLISHING: The Publishing segment consists of Simon & Schusters consumer book publishing business with imprints such as Simon & Schuster, Pocket Books, Scribner and Free Press. Publishing contributed 6% to consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006 and 5% for each of the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. II 5 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Consolidated Results of Operations 2006 vs. 2005 and 2005 vs. 2004 Revenues The tables below present the Companys consolidated revenues by type, net of intercompany eliminations, for each of the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. Revenues by Type Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 Increase/ (Decrease) 2006 vs. 2005 2004 Increase/ (Decrease) 2005 vs. 2004 Advertising sales $ 10,373.1 $ 10,415.7 $ (42.6 ) % $ 10,180.6 $ 235.1 2 % Television license fees 1,606.8 1,277.2 329.6 26 1,622.1 (344.9 ) (21 ) Affiliate revenues 1,069.6 992.1 77.5 8 968.5 23.6 2 Publishing 807.0 763.6 43.4 6 750.9 12.7 2 Home entertainment 83.4 259.7 (176.3 ) (68 ) 229.5 30.2 13 Other 380.3 404.7 (24.4 ) (6 ) 386.7 18.0 5 Total Revenues $ 14,320.2 $ 14,113.0 $ 207.2 1 % $ 14,138.3 $ (25.3 ) % Year Ended December 31, Percentage of Revenues by Type 2006 2005 2004 Advertising sales 72 % 74 % 72 % Television license fees 11 9 11 Affiliate revenues 7 7 7 Publishing 6 5 5 Home entertainment 1 2 2 Other 3 3 3 Total 100 % 100 % 100 % Advertising sales decreased $42.6 million in 2006 to $10.37 billion from $10.42 billion in 2005 reflecting decreases at Radio and Television, partially offset by growth at Outdoor. Radio advertising sales decreased 8% reflecting weakness in the overall radio advertising market and the impact of programming changes at 27 owned radio stations during 2006. Television advertising sales decreased 1% primarily reflecting the shutdown of the Companys network, UPN, in September 2006 and decreases at CBS Network, partially offset by strong political advertising sales at the television stations. Outdoor advertising sales increased 8% reflecting a 9% increase in North America, primarily in U.S. billboards, and a 4% increase in Europe. In 2005, advertising sales increased 2% to $10.42 billion in 2005 from $10.18 billion in 2004 reflecting growth in Television, from strength in CBS/UPN Networks primetime partially offset by the absence of the 2004 telecast of the Super Bowl on CBS Network and lower political advertising, and increases in Outdoor and Radio. Television license fees increased 26% to $1.61 billion in 2006 from $1.28 billion in 2005 principally reflecting higher revenues from the domestic syndication sales of CSI: Miami and Without a Trace, the basic cable availability and off network syndication of Frasier, the basic cable availability of Star Trek: Voyager and higher foreign syndication revenues, partially offset by the absence of license fees from the prior year second cycle cable renewal of Everybody Loves Raymond and lower network license fees in 2006. Television license fees decreased 21% to $1.28 billion in 2005 from $1.62 billion in 2004 principally reflecting the absence of revenues from the 2004 basic cable availability of Star Trek: Deep Space Nine and the absence of license fees for Frasier, which was no longer in production in 2005. II 6   Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Affiliate revenues increased 8% to $1.07 billion in 2006 from $992.1 million in 2005 driven by rate increases and subscriber growth at Showtime Networks and the inclusion of CSTV Networks since its acquisition in January 2006. Affiliate revenues increased 2% to $992.1 million in 2005 from $968.5 million in 2004, reflecting rate increases and subscriber growth at Showtime Networks. Publishing revenues increased 6% to $807.0 million in 2006 and increased 2% to $763.6 million in 2005 from $750.9 million in 2004. The increases were primarily driven by the success of top selling titles. Home entertainment revenues decreased $176.3 million, or 68%, to $83.4 million in 2006 from $259.7 million in 2005, principally reflecting the switch from self distribution in 2005 to third party distribution in 2006. Home entertainment revenues increased 13% to $259.7 million in 2005 from $229.5 million in 2004 reflecting the mix of available DVD releases. Other revenues, which include ancillary fees for Television and Radio operations, decreased 6% to $380.3 million in 2006 from $404.7 million in 2005 primarily reflecting lower revenues from the licensing and merchandising of television product and third party use of the studio facility. For 2005, other revenues increased 5% to $404.7 million from $386.7 million in 2004 primarily reflecting other revenues from acquired companies. International Revenues The Company generated approximately 11% of its total revenues from international regions in 2006, 12% in 2005 and 11% in 2004. Year Ended December 31, 2006 Percentage of Total 2005 Percentage of Total 2004 Percentage of Total United Kingdom $ 484.5 31 % $ 491.2 30 % $ 459.9 30 % Other Europe 548.5 35 666.4 41 603.5 40 Canada 276.5 17 284.4 17 264.2 17 All other 270.8 17 190.4 12 204.8 13 Total International Revenues $ 1,580.3 100 % $ 1,632.4 100 % $ 1,532.4 100 % Operating Expenses The table below presents the Companys consolidated operating expenses by type: Operating Expenses by Type Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 Increase/ (Decrease) 2006 vs. 2005 2004 Increase/ (Decrease) 2005 vs. 2004 Programming $ 3,354.7 $ 3,453.4 $ (98.7 ) (3)% $ 3,442.0 $ 11.4 % Production 2,585.1 2,403.6 181.5 8 2,539.8 (136.2 ) (5) Outdoor operations 1,168.3 1,134.2 34.1 3 1,102.7 31.5 3 Publishing operations 539.2 525.0 14.2 3 517.6 7.4 1 Other 777.5 862.1 (84.6 ) (10) 764.1 98.0 13 Total Operating Expenses $ 8,424.8 $ 8,378.3 $ 46.5 1% $ 8,366.2 $ 12.1 % II 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) For 2006, operating expenses of $8.42 billion increased 1% from $8.38 billion in 2005. For 2005, operating expenses of $8.38 billion increased $12.1 million from $8.37 billion in 2004. The major components and changes in operating expenses were as follows: Programming expenses represented 40% of total operating expenses in 2006, and 41% in 2005 and 2004, and reflect the amortization of acquired rights of programs exhibited on the broadcast and cable networks, and television and radio stations. Programming expenses decreased 3% to $3.35 billion in 2006 from $3.45 billion in 2005 reflecting lower costs associated with primetime series at the broadcast network, the shutdown of UPN and lower sports programming expenses at Radio. Programming expenses increased $11.4 million to $3.45 billion in 2005 from $3.44 billion in 2004 principally reflecting higher costs for Showtime Networks theatrical and series titles. Production expenses represented 31% of total operating expenses in 2006, 29% in 2005 and 30% in 2004, and reflect the costs and amortization of internally developed television programs, including direct production costs, residuals and participation expenses, and production overhead, as well as television and radio costs, including on air talent and other production costs. Production expenses increased 8% to $2.59 billion in 2006 from $2.40 billion in 2005 principally reflecting higher costs relating to the 2006 syndication sales of Frasier and CSI: Miami. Production expenses decreased 5% to $2.40 billion in 2005 from $2.54 billion in 2004 reflecting lower network costs due to the absence of Frasier, partially offset by increased costs for new network series. Outdoor operations expenses represented 14% of total operating expenses in 2006 and 2005, and 13% in 2004, and reflect transit and billboard lease, maintenance, posting and rotation expenses. Outdoor operations expenses increased 3% to $1.17 billion in 2006 from $1.13 billion in 2005 principally reflecting higher transit and billboard lease costs partially offset by the absence of the impact of 2005 hurricanes. Outdoor operations expenses increased 3% to $1.13 billion in 2005 from $1.10 billion in 2004 primarily reflecting higher billboard lease costs and maintenance costs associated with the impact of hurricanes in 2005. Publishing operations expenses, which represented 6% of total operating expenses in 2006, 2005 and 2004, reflect cost of book sales, royalties and other costs incurred with respect to publishing operations. Publishing operations expenses for 2006 increased 3% to $539.2 million from $525.0 million in 2005 reflecting higher production, return, and freight and delivery costs partially offset by lower royalty expenses. Publishing operations expenses increased 1% to $525.0 million in 2005 from $517.6 million in 2004, primarily due to higher revenues. Other operating expenses, which represented 9% of total operating expenses in 2006, 10% in 2005 and 9% in 2004, primarily include distribution costs incurred with respect to television product, costs associated with digital media, and compensation. Other operating costs decreased 10% to $777.5 million in 2006 from $862.1 million in 2005 primarily reflecting lower home entertainment distribution costs due to the switch from self distribution in 2005 to third party distribution in 2006, partially offset by higher costs associated with digital media investment and expansion. Other operating expenses for 2005 increased 13% to $862.1 million in 2005 from $764.1 million in 2004 principally reflecting 10% higher distribution costs due to the DVD release of Charmed and increased costs associated with digital media from the inclusion of SportsLine.com since its acquisition in December 2004. II 8 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") expenses, which include expenses incurred for selling and marketing costs, occupancy and back office support, were 19% of revenues for 2006 and 2005, and 18% of revenues for 2004. SG&A expenses increased $104.6 million, or 4%, to $2.78 billion in 2006 from $2.68 billion in 2005, primarily reflecting higher employee related costs, including an increase in stock based compensation of $46.7 million, the inclusion of CSTV Networks since its acquisition in January 2006 and $24.0 million of UPN shutdown costs, partially offset by lower expenses resulting from the absence of UPN since September 2006. In 2006, pension and postretirement benefits costs increased $39.6 million from 2005, primarily due to an increase in pension costs from the recognition of higher actuarial losses, which resulted from the change in the mortality rate assumption and lower than expected plan asset performance in 2005 partially offset by lower postretirement benefit costs reflecting the effect of a Medicare Part D subsidy. Advertising expenses of $328.1 million included in SG&A expenses decreased 4% from 2005 primarily due to lower spending at Television, principally reflecting the shutdown of UPN. For 2005, SG&A expenses increased $152.9 million, or 6%, to $2.68 billion in 2005 from $2.53 billion in 2004, primarily reflecting transition costs and professional fees related to the Separation, higher employee compensation, advertising and marketing costs, as well as incremental SG&A expenses from SportsLine.com. In 2005, pension and postretirement benefits increased $12.8 million from 2004 primarily due to a lower discount rate. Advertising expenses of $343.5 million included in SG&A expenses increased 3% reflecting increased spending primarily at Radio and Television. Impairment Charges The Company recorded a pre tax impairment charge of $65.2 million in the fourth quarter of 2006 to reduce the carrying value of the allocated goodwill for certain television stations to be disposed (see Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") 142 "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" ("SFAS 142") requires the Company to perform a fair value based impairment test of goodwill on at least an annual basis. The first step of the test examines whether or not the book value of each of the Companys reporting units exceeds its fair value. If the book value for a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step of the test is required to compare the implied fair value of that reporting units goodwill with the book value of its goodwill. The Companys reporting units are generally one level below or at the operating segment level. Effective for the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company tested for goodwill impairment for the Radio operating segment at its geographic component level. The estimated fair value of each reporting unit was computed principally based upon the present value of future cash flows (Discounted Cash Flow Method) and both the traded and transaction values of comparable businesses (Market Comparable Method). The Discounted Cash Flow Method and Market Comparable Method were weighted equally and resulted in substantially equal fair values. As a result of the 2005 annual impairment test, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $9.48 billion in the fourth quarter of 2005. The $9.48 billion reflected charges to reduce the carrying value of goodwill at the Television segment of $6.44 billion and the Radio segment of $3.05 billion. During 2005, traded values decreased for both the television and radio broadcasting industries. Broadcast advertising spending is closely correlated to the U.S. economy, which was negatively impacted by, among other things, higher interest rates and energy prices. In addition, a reduction in advertising spending in certain business sectors led to a reduction in forecasted cash flows and long term growth rates. II 9 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) As a result, the Company reduced its revenue, operating profit and cash flow projections for the reporting units underlying the Television and Radio segments to reflect then current market conditions. As a result of the annual impairment test performed for 2004, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $18.0 billion in the fourth quarter of 2004. The $18.0 billion reflected charges to reduce the carrying value of goodwill at the Radio segment of $10.94 billion and the Outdoor segment of $7.06 billion as well as a reduction of the carrying value of intangible assets of $27.8 million related to the FCC licenses at the Radio segment. Several factors led to a reduction in forecasted cash flows and long term growth rates for both Radio and Outdoor. Radio and Outdoor both fell short of budgeted revenue and operating income growth targets in 2004. Competition from other advertising media, including Internet advertising and cable and broadcast television, reduced Radio and Outdoor growth rates. Also, the emergence of new competitors and technologies necessitated a shift in managements strategy for the Radio and Outdoor businesses, including changes in composition of the sales force and operating management as well as increased levels of investment in marketing and promotion. Depreciation and Amortization For 2006, depreciation and amortization decreased slightly to $439.5 million from $440.1 million. For 2005, depreciation and amortization decreased 2% to $440.1 million from $449.8 million primarily reflecting lower depreciation expense for outdoor advertising properties. Interest Expense For 2006, interest expense decreased 22% to $565.5 million from $720.5 million due to lower debt balances in 2006. In the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company received from Viacom Inc. a $5.4 billion special cash dividend as a result of the Separation, which was used by the Company to repay outstanding commercial paper, debt outstanding under a revolving credit facility and certain fixed rate debt upon maturity in January 2006. In addition, certain fixed rate debt was repaid during 2005, upon maturity. For 2005, interest expense increased 4% to $720.5 million from $694.0 million primarily due to higher average bank debt and commercial paper borrowings, and higher interest rates partially offset by lower average fixed rate debt balances. The Company had approximately $7.04 billion at December 31, 2006 and $7.90 billion at December 31, 2005 of principal amount of debt outstanding (including current maturities) at weighted average interest rates of 7.0% and 6.9%, respectively. Interest Income For 2006, interest income increased to $112.1 million from $21.3 million, principally resulting from an increase in cash and cash equivalents, primarily reflecting the proceeds from the sale of Paramount Parks and cash flow from operations. For 2005, interest income increased by $.3 million to $21.3 million. Loss on Early Extinguishment of Debt For 2006, "Loss on early extinguishment of debt" of $6.0 million reflected losses recognized upon the early redemption of $52.2 million of the Companys 7.70% senior notes due 2010 and $50.0 million of the Companys 6.625% senior notes due 2011. Other Items, Net For 2006, "Other items, net" reflected a net loss of $14.3 million principally consisting of losses associated with securitizing trade receivables of $31.0 million, a non cash charge of $6.2 million associated II 10 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) with an other than temporary decline in the market value of one of the Companys investments and foreign exchange losses of $2.0 million, partially offset by a net gain of $24.6 million on the sales of certain radio stations. For 2005, "Other items, net" of $4.3 million principally reflected a net gain of $86.2 million from the sale of investments and businesses, and foreign exchange gains of $9.9 million, partially offset by losses associated with securitizing trade receivables of $23.8 million and a non cash charge of $67.9 million to reflect other than temporary declines in the market value of certain radio investments. For 2004, "Other items, net" of $24.4 million principally reflected foreign exchange gains of $25.2 million and a net gain on the sale of investments and businesses of $32.5 million, partially offset by a non cash charge of $21.7 million associated with other than temporary declines in the Companys investments and losses associated with securitizing trade receivables of $11.6 million. Provision for Income Taxes The provision for income taxes represents federal, state and local, and foreign income taxes on earnings (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes, equity in earnings (loss) of affiliated companies, minority interest and cumulative effect of accounting change. The provision for income taxes for continuing operations was $652.2 million, $794.2 million and $597.1 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The annual effective tax rate was 30.6% in 2006 versus (10.5%) in 2005 and (3.8%) in 2004. The effective tax rate for 2006 reflects the impact of tax benefits from the settlement of certain income tax audits of $164.1 million, as well as lower tax amounts owed per the federal, state and local, and foreign income tax returns. Included in the 2005 and 2004 rates was the impact of the pre tax non cash impairment charges of $9.48 billion ($9.46 billion, net of tax) and $18.0 billion ($17.89 billion, net of tax), respectively, to reduce the carrying value of goodwill. The 2004 rate included tax benefits of $128.4 million from the settlement of certain income tax audits. Equity in Earnings (Loss) of Affiliated Companies, Net of Tax Equity in earnings (loss) of affiliated companies, net of tax, reflects the operating results of the Companys equity investments. Equity in earnings (loss) of affiliated companies, net of tax reflected a net loss of $97.0 million for 2006, a net loss of $1.5 million for 2005 and net earnings of $19.2 million for 2004. For 2006 and 2005, the net losses principally reflected non cash impairment charges of $94.2 million and $20.7 million, respectively, associated with other than temporary declines in the market value of the Companys investment in Westwood One. The net loss in 2006 also reflects operating losses from the Companys 50% investment in The CW, a new broadcast network. For 2004, results principally reflected equity earnings of Westwood One, partially offset by losses from certain Internet investments. Minority Interest, Net of Tax Minority interest primarily represents the minority ownership of certain international entities. Net Earnings (Loss) from Continuing Operations For 2006, the Company reported net earnings from continuing operations of $1.38 billion versus a net loss from continuing operations of $8.36 billion in 2005, and a net loss from continuing operations of $16.43 billion in 2004. The loss in 2005 was driven by the non cash impairment charge for goodwill of II 11 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) $9.48 billion. The loss in 2004 was driven by the non cash impairment charge for goodwill and intangible assets of $18.0 billion. Net Earnings from Discontinued Operations On June 30, 2006, Paramount Parks was sold to Cedar Fair, L.P. for $1.24 billion in cash. The results of Paramount Parks are presented as a discontinued operation in the consolidated financial statements for all periods presented. The Separation of Former Viacom was accounted for by the Company as a spin off of Viacom Inc. Accordingly, the operations of Viacom Inc. are presented as discontinued operations in the Companys consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. The following tables set forth the detail of CBS Corp.s net earnings from discontinued operations. For the year ended December 31, 2006, net earnings from discontinued operations primarily reflected the operating results and gain on the sale of Paramount Parks. Net earnings from discontinued operations for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 included the operating results of Paramount Parks as well as Viacom Inc. Year Ended December 31, 2006 Total Revenues from discontinued operations $ 158.9 Loss from discontinued operations $ (1.3 ) Gain on sale of Paramount Parks 454.8 Earnings from discontinued operations before income taxes 453.5 Provision for income taxes (175.9 ) Net earnings from discontinued operations $ 277.6 Year Ended December 31, 2005 Viacom Inc. Paramount Parks Total Revenues from discontinued operations $ 9,489.1 $ 423.5 $ 9,912.6 Income from discontinued operations $ 2,318.9 $ 52.6 $ 2,371.5 Loss on disposal of discontinued operations (72.9 ) (72.9 ) Minority interest (8.2 ) (8.2 ) Earnings from discontinued operations before income taxes 2,237.8 52.6 2,290.4 Provision for income taxes (1,005.1 ) (13.8 ) (1,018.9 ) Net earnings from discontinued operations $ 1,232.7 $ 38.8 $ 1,271.5 II 12 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Year Ended December 31, 2004 Viacom Inc. Paramount Parks Total Revenues from discontinued operations $ 12,518.0 $ 409.9 $ 12,927.9 Income from discontinued operations $ 702.4 $ 48.6 $ 751.0 Loss on disposal of discontinued operations (38.2 ) (38.2 ) Minority interest 252.8 252.8 Earnings from discontinued operations before income taxes 917.0 48.6 965.6 Provision for income taxes (674.9 ) (11.8 ) (686.7 ) Net earnings from discontinued operations $ 242.1 $ 36.8 $ 278.9 Included in discontinued operations in 2004 is a non cash impairment charge of $1.50 billion ($1.16 billion, net of minority interest and tax) for the impairment of goodwill and other long lived assets in accordance with SFAS 142 and SFAS 144. Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change, Net of Tax Effective December 31, 2004, the Company elected early adoption of Emerging Issues Task Force Topic No. D 108 "Use of the Residual Method to Value Acquired Assets Other Than Goodwill" ("D 108"). D 108 requires companies who have applied the residual value method in the valuation of intangible assets for purposes of impairment testing to use the direct value method. As a result of the adoption, the Company recorded a charge of $2.18 billion ($1.31 billion, net of tax), or $1.53 per diluted share, to reduce the intangible asset balances attributable to its television stations FCC licenses. This charge has been reflected as a cumulative effect of accounting change, net of tax. Net Earnings (Loss) For 2006, the Company reported net earnings of $1.66 billion versus a net loss of $7.09 billion in 2005 and a net loss of $17.46 billion in 2004. For 2005 and 2004, the losses were driven by the non cash impairment charges of $9.48 billion in 2005 and $18.0 billion in 2004. For 2004, the net loss also included, in discontinued operations, an after tax non cash charge for the impairment of goodwill and other long lived assets of $1.16 billion. II 13   Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Segment Results of Operations For the Years Ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 The tables below present the Companys revenues, Segment operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization and impairment charges ("Segment OIBDA before Impairment Charges"), operating income (loss), and depreciation and amortization by segment, for each of the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Revenues: Television $ 9,487.1 $ 9,325.2 $ 9,448.5 Radio 1,959.9 2,114.8 2,096.1 Outdoor 2,103.4 1,949.3 1,880.2 Publishing 807.0 763.6 750.9 Eliminations (37.2 ) (39.9 ) (37.4 ) Total Revenues $ 14,320.2 $ 14,113.0 $ 14,138.3 Segment OIBDA before Impairment Charges (a): Television $ 1,947.7 $ 1,824.7 $ 1,981.2 Radio 820.0 925.0 948.2 Outdoor 568.0 469.9 453.9 Publishing 78.0 74.6 74.3 Corporate (162.9 ) (120.5 ) (98.5 ) Residual costs (139.7 ) (118.7 ) (113.8 ) Impairment charges (b) (65.2 ) (9,484.4 ) (17,997.1 ) Depreciation and amortization (439.5 ) (440.1 ) (449.8 ) Total Operating Income (Loss) $ 2,606.4 $ (6,869.5 ) $ (15,201.6 ) Operating Income (Loss): Television (b) $ 1,711.0 $ (4,791.5 ) $ 1,807.5 Radio (b) 787.4 (2,154.1 ) (10,023.5 ) Outdoor (b) 351.8 260.5 (6,824.5 ) Publishing 68.5 66.0 64.1 Corporate (172.6 ) (131.7 ) (111.4 ) Residual costs (139.7 ) (118.7 ) (113.8 ) Total Operating Income (Loss) $ 2,606.4 $ (6,869.5 ) $ (15,201.6 ) (a)The Company presents Segment OIBDA before Impairment Charges as the primary measure of profit and loss for its operating segments in accordance with SFAS 131 "Disclosure about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information" ("SFAS 131"). The Company believes the presentation of Segment OIBDA before Impairment Charges is relevant and useful for investors because it allows investors to view segment performance in a manner similar to the primary method used by the Companys management and enhances their ability to understand the Companys operating performance. The reconciliation of Segment OIBDA before Impairment Charges to the Companys consolidated net earnings (loss) is presented in Note 16 (Reportable Segments) to the Consolidated Financial Statements. (b)The Company recorded a non cash impairment charge of $65.2 million in the Television segment during the fourth quarter of 2006 to reduce the carrying value of the allocated goodwill for certain television stations to be disposed. As a result of the Companys annual goodwill and intangible assets impairment tests, non cash charges of $9.48 billion and $18.0 billion were recorded in 2005 and 2004, respectively, to reduce the carrying value of goodwill in 2005, and goodwill and intangible assets in 2004. The 2005 charge of $9.48 billion is comprised of $6.44 billion for the Television segment and $3.05 billion for the Radio segment. The 2004 charge of $18.0 billion is comprised of $10.94 billion for the Radio segment and $7.06 billion for the Outdoor segment. II 14 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Depreciation and Amortization: Television $ 171.5 $ 178.8 $ 173.7 Radio 32.6 32.1 29.9 Outdoor 216.2 209.4 223.1 Publishing 9.5 8.6 10.2 Corporate 9.7 11.2 12.9 Total Depreciation and Amortization $ 439.5 $ 440.1 $ 449.8 Segment Results of Operations 2006 vs. 2005 and 2005 vs. 2004 Television (CBS Television Network and Stations, CBS Paramount Network Television, CBS Television Distribution, Showtime Networks and CSTV Networks) (Contributed 66% of consolidated revenues for each of the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, and 67% for the year ended December 31, 2004.) Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Revenues $ 9,487.1 $ 9,325.2 $ 9,448.5 OIBDA before impairment charges $ 1,947.7 $ 1,824.7 $ 1,981.2 Impairment charges (65.2 ) (6,437.4 ) Depreciation and amortization (171.5 ) (178.8 ) (173.7 ) Operating income (loss) $ 1,711.0 $ (4,791.5 ) $ 1,807.5 Operating income as a % of revenues 18% NM 19% Capital expenditures $ 216.5 $ 197.2 $ 118.5 NM Not meaningful 2006 vs. 2005 For 2006, Television revenues increased $161.9 million, or 2%, to $9.49 billion primarily due to growth in television license fee and affiliate revenues partially offset by a decrease in home entertainment and advertising revenues. Television license fee revenues increased 26% due to the 2006 domestic syndication sales of CSI: Miami and Without a Trace, the basic cable availability and off network syndication of Frasier, the cable availability of Star Trek: Voyager and higher foreign syndication revenues partially offset by the absence of license fees from the prior year second cycle cable renewal of Everybody Loves Raymond and lower network license fees. Affiliate revenues increased 8% primarily due to rate increases and subscriber growth at Showtime Networks, and the inclusion of CSTV Networks results since its acquisition in January 2006. Advertising sales decreased 1% primarily due to the shutdown of UPN and decreases at CBS Network partially offset by a 7% increase in advertising sales at the television stations mainly due to higher political advertising sales. Home entertainment revenues decreased 68% principally due to the switch from self distribution in 2005 to third party distribution in 2006. For 2006, Television reported operating income of $1.71 billion versus an operating loss of $4.79 billion in 2005. Included in 2006 and 2005 were non cash impairment charges of $65.2 million and $6.44 billion, respectively, to reduce the carrying value of goodwill. Television OIBDA before II 15 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) impairment charges increased $123.0 million, or 7%, to $1.95 billion in 2006 from $1.82 billion in 2005. This increase primarily reflects the increases in revenues noted above and lower costs associated with primetime series at the broadcast network partially offset by higher production costs for the syndication sales of Frasier and CSI: Miami, $24.0 million of UPN shutdown costs and higher stock based compensation. Included in total Television expenses is stock based compensation of $31.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 versus $7.1 million for the prior year. Capital expenditures increased $19.3 million to $216.5 million in 2006 from $197.2 million in 2005, principally reflecting increased spending for buildings and technical equipment. On February 26, 2007, the Company completed the sale of its television station in New Orleans for $4.3 million. On February 7, 2007, the Company announced that it entered into an agreement to sell seven of its owned television stations in Austin, Salt Lake City, Providence and West Palm Beach to Cerberus Capital Management, L.P. for approximately $185 million. On February 13, 2007, the Company entered into an exchange agreement with Liberty Media Corporation to exchange the stock of a subsidiary of the Company which holds CBS Corp.s Green Bay television station and its satellite television station, and approximately $170 million in cash, subject to adjustment, for the 7.6 million shares of CBS Corp. Class B Common Stock held by Liberty Media Corporation. These transactions are subject to FCC approval and customary closing conditions. The Company recorded a pre tax impairment charge of $65.2 million in the fourth quarter of 2006 to reduce the carrying value of allocated goodwill for the television stations to be disposed. During September 2006, the Company combined the resources of its syndication and distribution operations. As a result, restructuring charges of $11.6 million were recorded in SG&A expenses in the Television segment during the year ended December 31, 2006. The charges reflected severance costs of $9.7 million and legal, lease termination and other expenses of $1.9 million. The Company paid $.5 million of the restructuring charges during 2006. The CW, a new broadcast network and 50/50% joint venture with Warner Bros. Entertainment, was launched in September 2006. The CW has been accounted for as an equity investment beginning in the second quarter of 2006. As a result, the Companys network, UPN, ceased broadcasting its network schedule at the conclusion of the 2005/2006 broadcast season. In connection with the shutdown of UPN, the Television segment recorded shutdown costs of $24.0 million in SG&A expenses in the second quarter of 2006. The charges reflected costs associated with contract terminations of $13.6 million and severance, legal and other expenses of $10.4 million. The Company paid $4.4 million of the shutdown costs during 2006. On January 5, 2006, the Company completed the acquisition of CSTV Networks, a cable network and online digital sports media company, for a purchase price of approximately $325 million, comprised of 10.2 million shares of CBS Corp. Class B Common Stock and $52 million in cash. The results of CSTV Networks have been included in the Television segment since its date of acquisition. License fees for completed television programming in syndication and on cable are recorded as revenues in the period that the products are available for exhibition, which, among other reasons, may cause substantial fluctuation in operating results. Unrecognized revenues attributable to such licensing agreements were approximately $675.5 million and $788.1 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. 2005 vs. 2004 For 2005, Television revenues decreased $123.3 million, or 1%, to $9.33 billion as advertising sales growth of 2% was more than offset by lower television license fee revenues. CBS and UPN combined II 16 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) advertising increased 4% with a 7% increase in primetime due to 6% average rate increases, partially offset by a decline in sports from the absence of the Super Bowl. For 2005, advertising sales at the television stations decreased 2%, as 2004 advertising sales benefited from political spending in a presidential election year and the telecast of the Super Bowl on CBS. Television license fee revenues for 2005 decreased 21% reflecting lower domestic syndication and network revenues. Domestic syndication revenues decreased as contributions from 2005 availabilities, including the Insider, Becker and Diagnosis Murder, did not match 2004 contributions from Star Trek: Deep Space Nine, Frasier and Hollywood Squares. Network revenues were lower due to the absence of revenues from the series Frasier which was no longer in production in 2005. Affiliate revenues at Showtime Networks increased 2% principally reflecting rate increases and growth in subscribers. For 2005, Television reported an operating loss of $4.79 billion, which included a non cash impairment charge of $6.44 billion to reduce the carrying value of goodwill. Television OIBDA before impairment charge decreased 8% to $1.82 billion in 2005 from $1.98 billion in 2004 reflecting the decrease in revenues noted above and higher SG&A expenses partially offset by lower operating expenses. Operating expenses, primarily comprised of production and programming expenses, decreased 1%, or $56.6 million, to $6.22 billion principally due to lower production costs for network series and the absence of prior year costs for the Super Bowl. SG&A expenses increased 8% to $1.28 billion primarily due to higher advertising and promotion and the inclusion of expenses for SportsLine.com, acquired in December 2004. Included in 2005 SG&A expenses is a severance charge of $11.3 million for organizational changes at Showtime Networks. Capital expenditures increased $78.7 million to $197.2 million in 2005 from $118.5 million in 2004, principally reflecting increased spending for broadcasting equipment. Radio (CBS Radio) (Contributed 14% of consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006, and 15% for each of the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004.) Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Revenues $ 1,959.9 $ 2,114.8 $ 2,096.1 OIBDA before impairment charges $ 820.0 $ 925.0 $ 948.2 Impairment charges (3,047.0 ) (10,941.8 ) Depreciation and amortization (32.6 ) (32.1 ) (29.9 ) Operating income (loss) $ 787.4 $ (2,154.1 ) $ (10,023.5 ) Operating income as a % of revenues 40 % NM NM Capital expenditures $ 43.2 $ 37.7 $ 38.2 NM Not meaningful 2006 vs. 2005 For 2006, Radio revenues decreased 7% to $1.96 billion from $2.11 billion in 2005, principally reflecting 8% lower advertising sales from decreases in both average unit rates and units sold, resulting from weakness in the overall radio advertising market as well as the impact of programming changes at 27 owned radio stations during 2006. Radio receives affiliation and other fees and consideration for management services provided to Westwood One, an affiliated company. Revenues from these arrangements were $59.1 million in 2006 and $63.4 million in 2005. II 17 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) For 2006, Radio reported operating income of $787.4 million versus an operating loss of $2.15 billion in 2005, which included a non cash impairment charge of $3.05 billion to reduce the carrying value of goodwill. Radio OIBDA before impairment charges decreased 11% to $820.0 million in 2006 from $925.0 million in 2005, reflecting the revenue decline noted above partially offset by lower expenses. Operating expenses, primarily comprised of radio programming and production expenses, decreased 5% to $472.8 million in 2006 from $498.9 million in 2005, principally reflecting lower programming costs, including sports programming. SG&A expenses decreased 3% to $667.1 million in 2006 from $690.9 million in 2005 primarily reflecting decreases in professional fees, sales commissions and bad debt expense partially offset by lower gains on disposition of assets in 2006 as compared to 2005. Included in total Radio expenses is stock based compensation of $10.7 million and $2.3 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. During 2006, the Company entered into agreements to sell 39 radio stations in ten of its smaller markets for a total of approximately $668 million in cash. In December 2006, the Company completed the sale of five radio stations in the Buffalo market to Regent Communications Inc. for $125.0 million, resulting in a pre tax gain of approximately $25 million included in "Other items, net" on the Consolidated Statement of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2006. As of February 15, 2007, the sales of an additional ten radio stations in the Kansas City, Columbus and Greensboro markets closed and the Company received $146.4 million. The remaining transactions are subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory and other approvals. 2005 vs. 2004 For 2005, Radio revenues increased 1% to $2.11 billion reflecting 2% growth in local radio advertising partially offset by a 1% decrease in national advertising. Advertising sales reflected an increase in average unit rates partially offset by a decline in the units sold. Advertising sales in the top 10 markets increased 3% and the top 20 markets increased 2%, led by increases in Los Angeles, Philadelphia and Atlanta. Revenues from arrangements with Westwood One were $63.4 million in 2005 and $65.9 million in 2004. For 2005, Radio reported an operating loss of $2.15 billion, compared with an operating loss of $10.02 billion in 2004, which included non cash impairment charges of $3.05 billion and $10.94 billion in 2005 and 2004, respectively, to reduce the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets. Radio OIBDA before impairment charge decreased 2% to $925.0 million in 2005 from $948.2 million in 2004 reflecting increases in operating and SG&A expenses, partially offset by the revenue increase noted above. Operating expenses increased 6% to $498.9 million in 2005 from $469.2 million in 2004 primarily due to increased talent costs, higher music licensing fees, and increased programming costs, including sports programming. SG&A expenses increased 2% to $690.9 million in 2005 from $678.7 million in 2004 primarily reflecting lower gains on disposition of assets in 2005 as compared to 2004 partially offset by lower bad debt expense in 2005. II 18 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Outdoor (CBS Outdoor) (Contributed 15% of consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006, 14% for the year ended December 31, 2005 and 13% for the year ended December 31, 2004.) Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Revenues $ 2,103.4 $ 1,949.3 $ 1,880.2 OIBDA before impairment charge $ 568.0 $ 469.9 $ 453.9 Impairment charge (7,055.3 ) Depreciation and amortization (216.2 ) (209.4 ) (223.1 ) Operating income (loss) $ 351.8 $ 260.5 $ (6,824.5 ) Operating income as a % of revenues 17% 13% NM Capital expenditures $ 115.7 $ 68.4 $ 56.5 NM Not meaningful 2006 vs. 2005 For 2006, Outdoor revenues increased 8% to $2.10 billion in 2006 from $1.95 billion in 2005 led by growth of 9% in North America and 4% in Europe. North America reflected growth of 9% in the U.S., with an increase of 11% in U.S. billboards, 8% growth in Canada and 14% growth in Mexico. Results in Europe were driven by a revenue increase of 10% in the U.K. The favorable net impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations on Outdoor revenues was approximately $18 million in 2006. Approximately 44% and 45% of Outdoor revenues were generated from international regions in 2006 and 2005, respectively. Outdoor operating income increased 35% to $351.8 million in 2006 from $260.5 million in 2005, and OIBDA increased 21% to $568.0 million in 2006 from $469.9 million in 2005, reflecting the revenue increase noted above partially offset by higher expenses. Operating expenses increased 3% to $1.17 billion in 2006 from $1.13 billion in 2005 primarily due to higher transit and billboard lease costs and the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange, partially offset by the absence of the impact of hurricanes in 2005. SG&A expenses increased 6% to $367.1 million in 2006 from $345.2 million in 2005 due to higher employee related expenses and the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange offset in part by lower professional fees and bad debt expense. Included in total Outdoor expenses is stock based compensation of $3.2 million and $.6 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. Operating income as a percentage of revenues was 17% and 13% in 2006 and 2005, respectively. 2005 vs. 2004 For 2005, Outdoor revenues increased 4% to $1.95 billion from $1.88 billion, principally due to a 6% increase in North America, reflecting an 18% increase in Mexico, a 16% increase in Canada and a 4% increase in U.S. billboards and displays. European revenues were flat year over year, primarily reflecting growth in the U.K. offset by a decline in Italy due to the loss of a component of the Italian transit contract in 2004. The impact of foreign exchange translation on revenues in 2005 was approximately $8 million in additional revenues, primarily in Canada. In constant dollars, Canadas revenues increased 8%. Approximately 45% of Outdoor revenues were generated from international regions, principally Europe, for both 2005 and 2004. II 19 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Operating income increased to $260.5 million in 2005 from a loss of $6.82 billion in 2004, which included a non cash impairment charge of $7.06 billion to reduce the carrying value of goodwill. Outdoor OIBDA before impairment charge increased 4% to $469.9 million in 2005 from $453.9 million in 2004, reflecting the revenue increases noted above partially offset by higher operating and SG&A expenses. Operating expenses increased 3% to $1.13 billion in 2005 from $1.10 billion in 2004, reflecting higher billboard lease costs and maintenance expenses, partially offset by lower transit lease costs. SG&A expenses increased 7% to $345.2 million in 2005 from $323.6 million in 2004 primarily reflecting higher employee related expenses. Revenues and operating income were negatively impacted by approximately $11 million and $28 million, respectively, in 2005 due to hurricanes. Publishing (Simon & Schuster) (Contributed 6% to consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006 and 5% for each of the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004.) Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Revenues $ 807.0 $ 763.6 $ 750.9 OIBDA $ 78.0 $ 74.6 $ 74.3 Depreciation and amortization (9.5 ) (8.6 ) (10.2 ) Operating income $ 68.5 $ 66.0 $ 64.1 Operating income as a % of revenues 8% 9% 9% Capital expenditures $ 5.8 $ 4.2 $ 4.6 2006 vs. 2005 For 2006, Publishing revenues increased 6% to $807.0 million in 2006 from $763.6 million in 2005 led by higher book sales, primarily in the Adult and International groups, as well as higher distribution fee income. Top selling titles in 2006 included YOU: On a Diet by Michael F. Roizen and Mehmet C. Oz, Liseys Story by Stephen King, and State of Denial by Bob Woodward. Publishing operating income increased 4% to $68.5 million in 2006 from $66.0 million in 2005 and OIBDA increased 5% to $78.0 million in 2006 from $74.6 million in 2005 reflecting the revenue increases noted above partially offset by higher expenses. Operating expenses increased 3% to $539.2 million in 2006 from $525.0 million in 2005 due to higher production, return and freight and delivery costs partially offset by lower royalty expenses. SG&A expenses increased 16% to $189.8 million in 2006 from $164.0 million in 2005 primarily resulting from an increase in bad debt expense and higher selling and marketing and employee related costs. Included in total Publishing expenses is stock based compensation of $1.9 million and $.5 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. Operating income as a percentage of revenues was 8% and 9% in 2006 and 2005, respectively. 2005 vs. 2004 For 2005, Publishing revenues increased 2% to $763.6 million in 2005 from $750.9 million in 2004, primarily due to several top selling 2005 titles including 1776 by David McCullough, Love Smart by Dr. Phil C. McGraw, and Teacher Man by Frank McCourt, as well as 5% growth in the Childrens group II 20 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) reflecting the performance of series titles, such as Dora the Explorer and Peanuts. Revenues from the Audio group increased 14% in 2005. For 2005, Publishing operating income increased 3% to $66.0 million in 2005 from $64.1 million in 2004 and OIBDA increased slightly to $74.6 million in 2005 from $74.3 million in 2004, primarily due to the revenue increases noted above, partially offset by higher operating and SG&A expenses. Operating expenses increased 1% to $525.0 million in 2005 due to higher production costs partially offset by lower royalty expenses. SG&A expenses increased 4% to $164.0 million primarily due to higher advertising, selling and marketing costs. Operating income as a percentage of revenues was 9% in 2005 and 2004. Financial Position Current assets increased by $1.35 billion to $8.14 billion at December 31, 2006 from $6.80 billion at December 31, 2005 primarily due to increases in cash and cash equivalents of $1.42 billion, receivables of $97.9 million and current assets of discontinued operations of $88.7 million. These increases were partially offset by decreases in other current assets of $75.9 million and deferred income tax assets of $161.2 million. The allowance for doubtful accounts as a percentage of receivables was 5.1% at December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005. Net property and equipment increased by $77.4 million to $2.81 billion at December 31, 2006 from $2.74 billion at December 31, 2005 reflecting capital expenditures of $394.1 million, acquisitions of $23.7 million and the impact of foreign exchange of $10.2 million partially offset by depreciation expense of $340.6 million and dispositions of $10.4 million. Goodwill of $18.82 billion increased $191.7 million from $18.63 million at December 31, 2005, primarily reflecting the acquisition of CSTV Networks in January 2006. Intangible assets, principally consisting of FCC licenses, and leasehold and franchise agreements, decreased by $89.2 million to $10.43 billion at December 31, 2006 from $10.51 billion at December 31, 2005, primarily due to amortization expense of $98.9 million. Other assets of discontinued operations decreased by $828.7 million to $85.6 million at December 31, 2006 from $914.3 million at December 31, 2005, primarily due to the sale of Paramount Parks, which was presented as a discontinued operation at December 31, 2005. Current liabilities decreased by $979.1 million to $4.40 billion at December 31, 2006 from $5.38 billion at December 31, 2005 primarily due to a decrease in the current portion of long term debt of $732.1 million from the repayment of debt, and a decrease in current liabilities of discontinued operations of $133.8 million due to the sale of Paramount Parks. Long term debt decreased by $125.9 million to $7.03 billion at December 31, 2006 from $7.15 billion at December 31, 2005 principally reflecting the repurchase of $102.2 million of senior notes. Deferred income tax liabilities of $2.31 billion increased $288.4 million from $2.02 billion at December 31, 2005, primarily due to the tax liability true up related to the 2005 federal tax return. II 21 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Cash Flows Cash and cash equivalents, including discontinued operations, increased by $1.42 billion for the year ended December 31, 2006. The change in cash and cash equivalents was as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Cash provided by operating activities from: Continuing operations $ 2,002.5 $ 1,822.3 $ 1,558.2 Discontinued operations (114.1 ) 1,714.7 2,082.4 Cash provided by operating activities 1,888.4 3,537.0 3,640.6 Cash provided by (used for) investing activities from: Continuing operations 849.5 4,981.5 (200.8 ) Discontinued operations (34.5 ) (213.7 ) (332.9 ) Cash provided by (used for) investing activities 815.0 4,767.8 (533.7 ) Cash used for financing activities from: Continuing operations (1,284.1 ) (7,151.8 ) (2,919.0 ) Discontinued operations (425.9 ) (110.4 ) Cash used for financing activities (1,284.1 ) (7,577.7 ) (3,029.4 ) Net increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 1,419.3 $ 727.1 $ 77.5 Operating Activities. In 2006, cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations increased $180.2 million, or 10%, to $2.00 billion from $1.82 billion in 2005 principally reflecting higher earnings after adjusting for non cash items, including the impairment charges and stock based compensation. These increases were partially offset by higher taxes paid in 2006 and lower cash inflows from net changes in operating assets and liabilities, principally reflecting $250 million of discretionary contributions made during 2006 to pre fund one of the Companys qualified pension plans. In 2005, cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations increased $264.1 million, or 17%, to $1.82 billion in 2005 from $1.56 billion in 2004 principally reflecting changes in working capital partially offset by higher taxes paid in 2005. Cash paid for income taxes from continuing operations of $562.2 million for 2006 was higher than 2005 payments of $493.4 million principally due to higher pre tax income and a decrease in the income tax benefit from stock option exercises, partially offset by increased tax refunds. Cash taxes for 2007 are anticipated to increase by approximately $250 million to $300 million principally driven by the absence of refunds received in 2006, additional tax payments in 2007 on the anticipated gain from the sale of certain radio stations and the absence of 2006 tax savings from $250 million of discretionary pension plan contributions. II 22   Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Investing Activities. In 2006, cash provided by investing activities from continuing operations of $849.5 million reflected proceeds from the sale of Paramount Parks of $1.24 billion in cash and proceeds from other dispositions of $142.5 million principally reflecting the sale of five radio stations in the Buffalo market. These proceeds were partially offset by capital expenditures of $394.1 million, investments in affiliated companies of $110.0 million, principally consisting of the Companys investment in The CW, and acquisitions of $97.9 million primarily consisting of the acquisition of CSTV Networks and outdoor advertising properties. In 2005, cash provided by investing activities from continuing operations of $4.98 billion reflected the $5.4 billion special dividend received from Viacom Inc. as well as proceeds from dispositions of $279.6 million, principally reflecting the sale of television and radio stations. These proceeds were partially offset by capital expenditures of $327.0 million and acquisitions of $462.9 million, primarily reflecting the acquisition of KOVR TV in Sacramento and KIFR FM, a San Francisco radio station. Capital expenditures increased $67.1 million, or 21%, to $394.1 million in 2006 from $327.0 million in 2005 principally reflecting spending for outdoor advertising structures, buildings and technical equipment. Capital expenditures increased $109.1 million, or 50%, to $327.0 million in 2005 from $217.9 million in 2004 principally reflecting additional broadcasting equipment and investments in infrastructures in preparation of the Separation on December 31, 2005. Net cash expenditures for investing activities from continuing operations of $200.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 principally reflected capital expenditures of $217.9 million primarily for investment in systems upgrades and building improvements. Capital expenditures for 2007 are anticipated to be in the range of $450 million to $475 million reflecting increases for outdoor advertising properties. Financing Activities. In 2006, cash flow used for financing activities from continuing operations of $1.28 billion principally reflected repayment of notes of $832.0 million and dividend payments of $519.1 million, partially offset by proceeds of $91.1 million from the exercise of stock options. In 2005, cash flow used for financing activities from continuing operations of $7.15 billion principally reflected the purchase of Company common stock for $5.56 billion, repayment of notes and debentures of $1.44 billion and dividend payments of $451.3 million. These uses were partially offset by proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options of $317.5 million. In 2004, cash flow used for financing activities from continuing operations of $2.92 billion principally reflected the purchase of Company common stock for $2.50 billion and dividend payments of $415.2 million, partially offset by the exercise of employee stock options of $119.6 million. Cash Dividends and Stock Purchase Program The Company declared a quarterly cash dividend on its Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock during each of the four quarters of 2006 for a total of $573.2 million. On February 27, 2007, the Company announced a 10% increase to its quarterly cash dividend from $.20 to $.22 per share. The dividend is payable on April 1, 2007 to stockholders of record as of March 7, 2007. Former Viacom declared a quarterly cash dividend on its common stock during each of the four quarters of 2005 and 2004 for a total of $440.9 million and $427.0 million, respectively. On February 27, 2007, the Company announced a stock purchase program under which the Company is authorized to purchase $1.5 billion of its Class B Common Stock. The Company expects to effect the buyback through an accelerated share repurchase program during March 2007. II 23 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) During 2006, the Company did not purchase any shares under its $8.0 billion stock purchase program which has remaining authorization of $579.8 million. In 2005, on a trade date basis, Former Viacom purchased 79.6 million shares of class B common stock for approximately $5.46 billion. In 2004, on a trade date basis, Former Viacom purchased 34.2 million shares of class B common stock for approximately $2.53 billion. Acquisitions and Dispositions On February 26, 2007, the Company completed the sale of its television station in New Orleans for $4.3 million. On February 7, 2007, the Company announced that it entered into an agreement to sell seven of its owned television stations in Austin, Salt Lake City, Providence and West Palm Beach to Cerberus Capital Management, L.P. for approximately $185 million. On February 13, 2007, the Company entered into an exchange agreement with Liberty Media Corporation to exchange the stock of a subsidiary of the Company which holds CBS Corp.s Green Bay television station and its satellite television station, and approximately $170 million in cash, subject to adjustment, for the 7.6 million shares of CBS Corp. Class B Common Stock held by Liberty Media Corporation. These transactions are subject to FCC approval and customary closing conditions. The Company recorded a pre tax impairment charge of $65.2 million in the fourth quarter of 2006 to reduce the carrying value of allocated goodwill for the television stations to be disposed. During 2006, the Company entered into agreements to sell 39 radio stations in ten of its smaller markets for a total of approximately $668 million in cash. In December 2006, the Company completed the sale of five radio stations in the Buffalo market to Regent Communications Inc. for $125.0 million, resulting in a pre tax gain of approximately $25 million included in "Other items, net" on the Consolidated Statement of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2006. As of February 15, 2007, the sales of an additional ten radio stations in the Kansas City, Columbus and Greensboro markets closed and the Company received $146.4 million. The remaining transactions are subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory and other approvals. On June 30, 2006, the Company completed the sale of Paramount Parks to Cedar Fair, L.P. for $1.24 billion in cash. On January 5, 2006, the Company completed the acquisition of CSTV Networks, a cable network and online digital sports media company, for a purchase price of approximately $325 million, comprised of 10.2 million shares of CBS Corp. Class B Common Stock and $52 million in cash. CSTV Networks results have been included as part of the Television segment since the date of acquisition. The excess purchase price over the fair value of the tangible and identifiable intangible net assets acquired was allocated to goodwill. During the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company acquired KIFR FM, a San Francisco radio station, for approximately $95 million. During the second quarter of 2005, the Company acquired KOVR TV, a Sacramento television station, for approximately $285 million. II 24 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Capital Structure At December 31, 2006 2005 Notes payable to banks $ 3.1 $ 7.2 Senior debt 4.625% 8.875% due 2006 2051 7,006.2 7,919.9 Other notes .8 1.0 Obligations under capital leases 115.2 125.4 Total debt 7,125.3 8,053.5 Less discontinued operations debt(a) 83.0 153.2 Total debt from continuing operations 7,042.3 7,900.3 Less current portion 15.0 747.1 Total long term debt from continuing operations, net of current portion $ 7,027.3 $ 7,153.2 (a)Included in "Liabilities of discontinued operations" on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Total debt of $7.13 billion at December 31, 2006 and $8.05 billion at December 31, 2005 was 23% and 27%, respectively, as a percentage of total capitalization of the Company. The senior debt of CBS Corp. is fully and unconditionally guaranteed by its wholly owned subsidiary CBS Operations Inc. Senior debt in the amount of $52.2 million of the Companys wholly owned subsidiary, CBS Broadcasting Inc., is not guaranteed. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Companys debt balances included (i) a net unamortized premium of $29.1 million and $31.8 million, respectively, and (ii) the decrease in the carrying value of the debt relating to fair value hedges of $17.5 million and $8.5 million, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, the following debt maturities and repurchases occurred: Debt Maturities January 30, 2006, 6.40% senior notes, $800.0 million June 1, 2005, 7.75% senior notes, $951.0 million May 20, 2005, 7.15% senior notes, $500.0 million Debt Repurchases During 2006, the Company repurchased $52.2 million of its 7.70% senior notes due 2010 and $50.0 million of its 6.625% senior notes due 2011, resulting in a loss on early extinguishment of debt of $6.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. For the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company repurchased approximately $21.2 million of its debt. II 25 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) The Companys scheduled maturities of long term debt at face value, including discontinued operations debt and excluding capital leases, at December 31, 2006 were as follows: 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 and thereafter Long term debt $ 700.8 $ .8 $ .8 $ 1,585.8 $ 950.1 $ 3,760.2 At December 31, 2006, the Company classified $699.4 million of senior notes maturing in 2007 as long term debt on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, reflecting its intent and ability to refinance this debt on a long term basis. Credit Facility As of December 31, 2006, the Company had a $3.0 billion revolving credit facility due December 2010 (the "Credit Facility"). The Company, at its option, may also borrow in certain foreign currencies up to specified limits under the Credit Facility. Borrowing rates under the facility are determined at the Companys option at the time of each borrowing and are based generally on the prime rate in the United States or the London Interbank Offer Rate ("LIBOR") plus a margin based on the Companys senior unsecured debt rating. The Company pays a facility fee based on the total amount of the commitments. As of December 31, 2006, the remaining availability under this Credit Facility, net of outstanding letters of credit, was $2.79 billion. The Credit Facility contains covenants, which, among other things, require that the Company maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio. At December 31, 2006, the Company was in compliance with all covenants under the Credit Facility. The primary purpose of the Credit Facility is to support commercial paper borrowings. At December 31, 2006, the Company had no commercial paper borrowings under its $3.0 billion commercial paper program. Accounts Receivable Securitization Programs As of December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, the Company had an aggregate of $550.0 million outstanding under revolving receivable securitization programs. The programs result in the sale of receivables on a non recourse basis to unrelated third parties on a one year renewable basis, thereby reducing accounts receivable on the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheets. The Company enters into these arrangements because they provide an additional source of liquidity. Proceeds from the programs were used to reduce outstanding borrowings. The terms of the revolving securitization arrangements require that the receivable pools subject to the programs meet certain performance ratios. As of December 31, 2006, the Company was in compliance with the required ratios under the receivable securitization programs. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company believes that its operating cash flows from continuing operations ($2.00 billion in 2006), cash and cash equivalents ($3.07 billion at December 31, 2006), borrowing capacity under committed bank facility (which consisted of an unused revolving Credit Facility of $2.79 billion at December 31, 2006), and access to capital markets are sufficient to fund its operating needs, including commitments and contingencies, capital and investing commitments, and dividend and other financing requirements for the foreseeable future. The funding for commitments to purchase sports programming rights, television and film programming, and talent contracts will come primarily from cash flow from operations. II 26 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) On February 27, 2007, the Company announced a stock purchase program under which the Company is authorized to purchase $1.5 billion of its Class B Common Stock. The Company expects to effect the buyback through an accelerated share repurchase program during March 2007. The Company continually projects anticipated cash requirements, which include capital expenditures, dividends, acquisitions and principal payments on its outstanding indebtedness, as well as cash flows generated from operating activities available to meet these needs. Any net cash funding requirements are financed with short term borrowings (primarily commercial paper) and long term debt. Commercial paper borrowings, which also accommodate day to day changes in funding requirements, are backed by the Credit Facility that may be utilized in the event that commercial paper borrowings are not available. The Companys credit position affords sufficient access to the capital markets to meet the Companys financing requirements. The Company anticipates that future debt maturities will be funded with cash and cash equivalents, and cash flows generated from operating activities and other debt financing. There are no provisions in any of the Companys material financing agreements that would cause an acceleration of the obligation in the event of a downgrade in the Companys debt ratings. The Company filed a shelf registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission registering debt securities, preferred stock and warrants of CBS Corp. that may be issued for aggregate gross proceeds of $5.0 billion. The registration statement was first declared effective on January 8, 2001. The net proceeds from the sale of the offered securities may be used by CBS Corp. for general corporate purposes, including repayment of borrowings, working capital and capital expenditures, or for such other purposes as may be specified in the applicable prospectus supplement. To date, the Company has issued $2.385 billion of securities under the shelf registration statement. As of December 31, 2006, the Companys significant contractual obligations, including payments due by period, were as follows: Payments Due by Period Total 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 and thereafter Programming and talent commitments (1) $ 13,607.3 $ 3,481.6 $ 5,028.3 $ 3,460.7 $ 1,636.7 Guaranteed minimum franchise payments (2) $ 2,951.2 $ 413.3 $ 745.2 $ 644.9 $ 1,147.8 Purchase obligations (3) $ 713.0 $ 185.1 $ 206.2 $ 182.4 $ 139.3 Operating leases (4) $ 2,092.0 $ 319.8 $ 508.0 $ 375.2 $ 889.0 Other long term contractual obligations (5) $ 943.1 $ .5 $ 684.6 $ 234.7 $ 23.3 Long term debt obligations (6) $ 6,998.5 $ 700.8 $ 1.6 $ 2,535.9 $ 3,760.2 Interest commitments on long term debt (7) $ 5,821.4 $ 460.3 $ 894.2 $ 681.8 $ 3,785.1 Capital lease obligations (including interest) (8) $ 151.6 $ 22.7 $ 34.5 $ 29.6 $ 64.8 (1)Programming and talent commitments of the Company include $8.83 billion for the acquisition of sports programming rights, $3.33 billion relating to television, radio, and film production and acquisitions and $961.6 million for talent contracts. (2)Outdoor has franchise rights entitling it to display advertising on media including billboards, transit shelters, buses, rail systems, mall kiosks and stadium signage. Under most of these franchise agreements, the franchisor is entitled to receive the greater of a percentage of the relevant advertising revenues, net of advertising agency fees, or a specified guaranteed minimum annual payment. (3)Purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including open purchase orders. (4)Includes long term noncancelable operating lease commitments for office space, equipment, transponders and studio facilities. (5)Long term contractual obligations including program liabilities, participations due to producers and residuals. (6)Long term debt obligations are presented at face value, including discontinued operations debt. (7)Future interest based on scheduled debt maturities, excluding capital leases. (8)Includes capital leases for satellite transponders. II 27   Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Voluntary Exchange Offer On June 1, 2006, the Company announced the completion of its Voluntary Exchange Offer ("VEO") which gave eligible employees the voluntary opportunity to tender their outstanding stock options to purchase shares of CBS Corp. Class B Common Stock in exchange for restricted shares (for eligible employees who are subject to United States income tax) or restricted share units ("RSUs") (for eligible employees who are not subject to United States income tax) of CBS Corp. Class B Common Stock having a value equal to 75% of the fair value attributed to the eligible options. For the restricted shares and RSUs issued in exchange for the fully vested options, no compensation expense was recorded. For the restricted shares and RSUs issued in exchange for unvested options, compensation expense was recorded based on the grant date fair value of the options over the remaining vesting period. Employees who participated in the VEO made separate tendering decisions with respect to all of their stock options awarded prior to January 1, 2006 that were out of the money (options with an exercise price equal to or greater than $24.9340) and all of those that were in the money (options with an exercise price less than $24.9340). Restricted shares and RSUs issued in connection with the VEO will vest in two equal annual installments on the second and third anniversaries of the date of grant, June 1, 2006, subject to forfeitures and other restrictions. As a result of the VEO, options to purchase 63.7 million shares of CBS Corp. Class B Common Stock were exchanged for 7.1 million restricted shares and .1 million RSUs. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In connection with the Separation, Viacom Inc. has agreed to indemnify the Company with respect to obligations related to Blockbuster Inc. ("Blockbuster"), including certain Blockbuster store leases; Famous Players theater leases; certain UCI theatre leases; and certain theatre leases related to W.F. Cinema Holdings L.P. and Graumans Theatres LLC. The Company has indemnification obligations with respect to letters of credit and surety bonds primarily used as security against non performance in the normal course of business. The outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds approximated $375.6 million at December 31, 2006 and are not recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2006. In the course of its business, the Company both provides and receives indemnities which are intended to allocate certain risks associated with business transactions. Similarly, the Company may remain contingently liable for various obligations of a business that has been divested in the event that a third party does not live up to its obligations under an indemnification obligation. The Company records a liability for its indemnification obligations and other contingent liabilities when probable under generally accepted accounting principles. Critical Accounting Policies Financial Reporting Release No. 60, "Cautionary Advice Regarding Disclosure About Critical Accounting Policies" ("FRR 60"), suggests companies provide additional disclosure and commentary on those accounting policies considered most critical. FRR 60 considers an accounting policy to be critical if it is important to the Companys financial condition and results of operations, and requires significant judgment and estimates on the part of management in its application. For a summary of the Companys significant accounting policies, including the critical accounting policies discussed below, see the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. II 28 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) The preparation of the Companys financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amount of expenses during the reporting period. On an ongoing basis, the Company evaluates its estimates, which are based on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. The result of these evaluations forms the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities and the reported amount of expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions. The following accounting policies require significant management judgments and estimates. The Company accounts for the production and distribution of television programming in accordance with Statement of Position 00 2 "Accounting by Producers or Distributors of Films" ("SOP 00 2"). SOP 00 2 requires managements judgment as it relates to the timing of the establishment of a secondary market for its television programming, and total estimated revenues to be earned and costs to be incurred throughout the life of each television program. These estimates are used to determine the amortization of capitalized television programming, expensing of participation costs, and any necessary net realizable value adjustments to capitalized television programming costs. For each television program, management bases these estimates on the performance of the television programming in the initial markets, the existence of future firm commitments to sell additional episodes of the program, and the past performance of similar television programs. These estimates are updated regularly based on information available as the television program progresses through its life cycle. Overestimating secondary market revenues or a failure to adjust for a downward change in the total estimated revenue could result in the understatement of the amortization of capitalized television programming costs, future net realizable value adjustments and impact the determination of participation expense. The Company accounts for its business acquisitions under the purchase method of accounting. The total cost of acquisitions is allocated to the underlying net assets, based on their respective estimated fair values. The excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the tangible and identifiable intangible net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed requires managements judgment and often involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions, including assumptions with respect to future cash inflows and outflows, discount rates, asset lives, and market multiples, among other items. In accordance with SFAS 142, the Company tests goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment during the fourth quarter of each year, and on an interim date should factors or indicators become apparent that would require an interim test. A significant downward revision in the present value of estimated future cash flows for a reporting unit or intangible assets could result in an impairment under SFAS 142 and a non cash charge would be required. Balance sheet reserves and liabilities related to legal issues, restructuring charges and discontinued businesses, including asbestos and environmental matters, require significant judgments and estimates by management. The Company continually evaluates these estimates based on changes in the relevant facts and circumstances and events that may impact estimates. While management believes that the current reserves for matters related to predecessor operations of the Company, including environmental and asbestos are adequate, there can be no assurance that circumstances will not change in future periods. II 29 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Pension benefit obligations and net periodic pension costs are calculated using many actuarial assumptions. Two key assumptions used in accounting for pension liabilities and expenses are the discount rate and expected rate of return on plan assets. The discount rate reflects the rate at which the pension benefit obligations could effectively be settled. The Company determined the discount rate by projecting the plans expected future benefit payments as defined for the projected benefit obligation. Those projected benefit payments are used to construct a high quality bond portfolio with interest and principal payments that provide the cash flows necessary to meet the projected benefit payments. The projected benefit payments are discounted by the weighted average yield of the bond portfolio. The expected return on plan assets assumption was derived using the current and expected asset allocation of the pension plan assets and considering historical as well as expected returns on various classes of plan assets. For 2006, the unrecognized actuarial losses decreased primarily due to an increase in the discount rate as well as higher than expected return from plan assets. For 2005, the unrecognized actuarial loss for pension increased principally as a result of change in mortality rate assumption and lower than expected returns from plan assets. A decrease in the discount rate or a decrease in the expected rate of return on plan assets would increase pension expense. The estimated impact of a 25 basis point change in the discount rate would be a change of approximately $15 million on 2007 pension expense and will change the projected benefit obligation by approximately $140 million. The estimated impact of a 25 basis point change in the expected rate of return on plan assets is a change of approximately $10 million in 2007 pension expense. The Company is subject to income taxes in both the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining the worldwide provision for income taxes. The Company is continually audited by U.S. federal and state as well as foreign tax authorities. While it is often difficult to predict the final outcome or the timing of resolution of any particular tax matter, the Company believes that its tax reserves at December 31, 2006 reflect the probable outcome of known contingencies. Upon adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109" ("FIN 48") on January 1, 2007, the Company will apply a more likely than not recognition threshold when determining whether a tax position will be sustained and a reserve recognized pursuant to the measurement provisions of FIN 48. An estimated effective tax rate for a year is applied to quarterly operating results. In the event there is a significant or unusual item recognized in the quarterly operating results, the tax attributable to that item is separately calculated and recorded in the same quarter. A number of years may elapse before a tax return containing tax matters, for which a reserve has been established, is audited and finally resolved. During 2006, the Company recognized $164.1 million of tax benefits related to the settlement of certain prior year income tax audits. On January 1, 2006, the Company adopted SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004) "Share Based Payment" ("SFAS 123R"). SFAS 123R requires companies to measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the grant date fair value of the award. That cost is recognized over the vesting period during which an employee is required to provide service in exchange for the award. The Company adopted SFAS 123R using the modified prospective application method and, accordingly, recognizes compensation cost for stock based compensation for all new or modified grants after the date of adoption. In addition, the Company recognizes the unvested portion of the grant date fair value of awards granted prior to the adoption based on the fair values previously calculated for disclosure purposes. The fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of grant using the Black Scholes option pricing model. The determination of the assumptions used in the Black Scholes model requires management to make significant judgments and estimates. The use of different assumptions and estimates in the Black Scholes option pricing model could have a material impact on II 30 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) the estimated fair value of option grants and the related expense. The risk free interest rate is based on a U.S. Treasury rate in effect on the date of grant with a term equal to the expected life. The expected term was determined based on historical employee exercise and post vesting termination behavior. The expected dividend yield for 2006 is based on the then current annual dividend. When calculating expected stock price volatility, the Company placed exclusive reliance on implied volatility due to the limited amount of trading history for CBS Corp. Class B Common Stock. In addition, given the existence of an actively traded market for CBS Corp. options, the Company was able to derive implied volatility using publicly traded options to purchase CBS Corp. Class B Common Stock that were trading near the grant date of the employee stock options at a similar exercise price and a remaining term of greater than one year. Although there is an active market for these publicly traded CBS Corp. options, the Company believes that due to their short trading history, the volatility of these options alone may not be indicative of expected volatility. As a result, the expected stock price volatility was determined using an average of the implied volatility of these options and the implied volatility of publicly traded options for entities with similar business characteristics within the Companys industry. Legal Matters Shareholder Derivative Lawsuits and Demands. Two shareholder derivative lawsuits, consolidated as In re Viacom Shareholders Derivative Litigation, were filed in July 2005 in New York State Supreme Court relating to executive compensation and alleged corporate waste. The actions name each member of Former Viacoms Board of Directors, Messrs. Tom Freston and Leslie Moonves (each of whom were executive officers of Former Viacom), and, as a nominal defendant, Former Viacom, alleging that the 2004 compensation of Messrs. Redstone, Freston and Moonves was excessive and unwarranted and challenging the independence of certain Former Viacom directors. Mr. Redstone is the Companys Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors and Founder and Mr. Moonves is the Companys President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Freston was formerly Viacom Inc.s President and Chief Executive Officer. Plaintiffs seek unspecified damages from the members of the Former Viacom Board of Directors for their alleged breach of fiduciary duties, disgorgement of the 2004 compensation paid to the above named officers of Former Viacom, equitable relief, and attorney fees and expenses. The Company moved to dismiss the complaints and oral argument was heard on February 16, 2006. On June 26, 2006, the court denied the Companys motion to dismiss. The Companys appeal from that decision was argued on January 5, 2007, and the Company is awaiting a decision. The trial court proceedings have been stayed pending the resolution of the Companys appeal. On January 23, 2007, a new shareholder derivative action was filed in New York Supreme Court, which contains allegations similar to those in the earlier actions. Any liabilities in this matter adverse to the Company and or Viacom Inc. will be shared equally between the Company and Viacom Inc. The Company believes that the plaintiffs positions in these actions are without merit and it intends to vigorously defend itself in the litigation. The Company has received shareholder demands seeking access to books and records of the Company relating to executive compensation paid to Sumner M. Redstone, Tom Freston and Leslie Moonves, accompanied by statements that such demands are in furtherance of an investigation of possible mismanagement, self dealing and corporate waste by directors and officers of Former Viacom. Another shareholder demand seeking access to books and records relates to the compensation of Sumner M. Redstone and Mel Karmazin (former Chief Operating Officer of Former Viacom). One of the demands also seeks access to books and records of the Company relating to Sumner M. Redstones acquisition of a controlling interest in Midway Games Inc. The Company intends to comply with all reasonable requests. Under the Separation Agreement between the Company and Viacom Inc., liabilities in connection with executive compensation claims relating to officers of Former Viacom are shared equally by the Company and Viacom Inc. II 31 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Claims Related to Former Businesses: Asbestos, Environmental and Other. The Company is a defendant in lawsuits claiming various personal injuries related to asbestos and other materials, which allegedly occurred principally as a result of exposure caused by various products manufactured by Westinghouse, a predecessor, generally prior to the early 1970s. Westinghouse was neither a producer nor a manufacturer of asbestos. The Company is typically named as one of a large number of defendants in both state and federal cases. In the majority of asbestos lawsuits, the plaintiffs have not identified which of the Companys products is the basis of a claim. Claims against the Company in which a product has been identified principally relate to exposures allegedly caused by asbestos containing insulating material in turbines sold for power generation, industrial and marine use, or by asbestos containing grades of decorative micarta, a laminate used in commercial ships. Claims are frequently filed and or settled in large groups, which may make the amount and timing of settlements, and the number of pending claims, subject to significant fluctuation from period to period. The Company does not report as pending those claims on inactive, stayed, deferred or similar dockets which some jurisdictions have established for claimants who allege minimal or no impairment. As of December 31, 2006, the Company had pending approximately 73,310 asbestos claims, as compared with approximately 101,170 as of December 31, 2005 and approximately 112,140 as of December 31, 2004. Of the claims pending as of December 31, 2006, approximately 49,630 were pending in state courts, 21,020 in federal courts and, additionally, approximately 2,660 were third party claims pending in state courts. During 2006, the Company received approximately 6,470 new claims and closed or moved to an inactive docket approximately 34,330 claims. The Company reports claims as closed when it becomes aware that a dismissal order has been entered by a court or when the Company has reached agreement with the claimants on the material terms of a settlement. Settlement costs depend on the seriousness of the injuries that form the basis of the claim, the quality of evidence supporting the claims and other factors. To date, the Company has not been liable for any third party claims. The Companys total costs for the years 2006 and 2005 for settlement and defense of asbestos claims after insurance recoveries and net of tax benefits were approximately $5.7 million and $37.2 million, respectively. The Companys costs for settlement and defense of asbestos claims may vary year to year as insurance proceeds are not always recovered in the same period as the insured portion of the expenses. Filings include claims for individuals suffering from mesothelioma, a rare cancer, the risk of which is allegedly increased primarily by exposure to asbestos; lung cancer, a cancer which may be caused by various factors, one of which is alleged to be asbestos exposure; other cancers, and conditions that are substantially less serious, including claims brought on behalf of individuals who are asymptomatic as to an allegedly asbestos related disease. Claims identified as cancer remain a small percentage of asbestos claims pending at December 31, 2006. In a substantial number of the pending claims, the plaintiff has not yet identified the claimed injury. The Company believes that its reserves and insurance are adequate to cover its asbestos liabilities. The Company from time to time receives claims from federal and state environmental regulatory agencies and other entities asserting that it is or may be liable for environmental cleanup costs and related damages principally relating to historical and predecessor operations of the Company. In addition, the Company from time to time receives personal injury claims including toxic tort and product liability claims (other than asbestos) arising from historical operations of the Company and its predecessors. Payola. The Attorney General of the State of New York has been conducting an investigation of record companies, radio stations and independent record promoters relating to the promotion and selection of music on radio stations, principally to determine whether radio stations have received II 32 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) undisclosed payments which were tied to their decisions as to what songs to play, a practice commonly referred to as "payola." The Attorney General has entered into a settlement agreement with CBS Radio pursuant to which CBS did not admit to any violation of any law or regulation but agreed to implement certain business reforms. CBS Radio also agreed to make a $2.0 million payment to Rockefeller Philanthropy Advisors in connection with the settlement. The Attorney General has also entered into settlements with the major record labels and with one other major radio company. The FCC, based on information provided to it by the Attorney General, has also initiated a "payola" investigation and CBS Radio is in the process of providing further information which the FCC has requested pursuant to a Letter of Inquiry. Indecency Regulation. On March 15, 2006, the FCC released certain decisions relating to indecency complaints against certain of the Companys owned television stations and affiliated stations. The FCC ruled in the Super Bowl proceeding and ordered the Company to pay a forfeiture of $550,000. On May 31, 2006, the FCC denied the Companys petition for reconsideration. On July 28, 2006, the Company filed a Petition for Review of the forfeiture and denial of reconsideration with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit and paid the $550,000 forfeiture under protest so that the Company could bring an appeal. The Company has appealed the Super Bowl decision in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. On March 15, 2006, the FCC also notified certain of the Companys television stations and certain affiliates of the CBS Network of apparent liability for forfeitures relating to a broadcast of the program Without a Trace. The FCC proposed to assess a forfeiture of $32,500 against each of these stations, totaling $260,000 for the Companys owned stations. The Company is contesting the FCC decision and the proposed forfeitures. Also, on March 15, 2006, as part of an omnibus indecency order, the FCC ruled that a broadcast of The Early Show was indecent, but declined to issue forfeiture. That decision and others are the subject of a petition for review filed in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit by the Company, as well as the other broadcast networks and their affiliate associations. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit remanded the matter to the FCC and, on November 6, 2006, the FCC issued a decision reversing the part of its decision that found The Early Show broadcast to be indecent. However, the FCC affirmed its findings that the fleeting and isolated utterances broadcast on another broadcast network are indecent and the case continues to be litigated by the parties. The parties are awaiting a decision. Additionally, the Company, from time to time, has received and may receive in the future letters of inquiry from the FCC prompted by complaints alleging that certain programming on the Companys broadcasting stations included indecent material. In a separate matter, a new law increased the maximum forfeiture for a single indecency violation to $325,000, with a maximum forfeiture exposure of $3,000,000 for any continuing violation arising from a single act or failure to act, which amounts will be effective when the FCC issues implementing regulations. On an ongoing basis, the Company defends itself in a multitude of lawsuits and proceedings and responds to various investigations and inquiries from federal, state and local authorities (collectively, "litigation"). Litigation is inherently uncertain and always difficult to predict. However, based on its understanding and evaluation of the relevant facts and circumstances, the Company believes that the above described legal matters and other litigation to which it is a party are not likely, in the aggregate, to have a material adverse effect on its results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Under the Separation Agreement between the Company and Viacom Inc., Viacom Inc. has agreed to defend and indemnify the Company in certain litigation in which the Company is named. II 33 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Market Risk The Company is exposed to market risk related to foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. The Company uses derivative financial instruments to modify its exposure to market risks from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. In accordance with its policy, the Company does not use derivative instruments unless there is an underlying exposure and, therefore, the Company does not hold or enter into financial instruments for speculative trading purposes. Foreign Exchange Risk The Company conducts business with companies in various countries outside the United States, resulting in exposure to movements in foreign exchange rates when translating from the foreign local currency to the U.S. dollar. In order to hedge anticipated cash flows and foreign currency balances in such currencies as the British Pound, the Euro, the Canadian Dollar, the Mexican Peso and the Australian Dollar, foreign currency forward and option contracts are used. Additionally, the Company designates forward contracts used to hedge future production costs as cash flow hedges, and may designate certain forward contracts as a hedge of the foreign currency exposure of a net investment in a foreign operation. The change in fair value of the non designated contracts is included in current period results as part of "Other items, net." The Company manages the use of foreign exchange derivatives centrally. At December 31, 2006, the notional value of all foreign exchange contracts was $225.9 million, of which $16.8 million relates to the hedging of future production costs. The remaining $209.1 million represents hedges of underlying foreign currency balances and expected foreign currency cash flows. At December 31, 2005, the notional value of all foreign exchange contracts was $221.4 million, which represented hedges of underlying foreign currency balances and expected foreign currency cash flows. Interest Rate Risk All of the Companys long term debt has been issued under fixed interest rate agreements. The Company has entered into fixed to floating rate swap agreements for a portion of this debt, which are designated as fair value hedges. These swaps expose the Company to movements in short term interest rates. Based on the amount of fixed to floating rate swaps and receivable securitization programs outstanding at December 31, 2006, a 100 basis point change in interest rates would cause a $11.0 million change to pre tax earnings. As of December 31, 2006, if all parties were to agree, the swaps could have been terminated by a net payment from the Company of approximately $18.0 million, including accrued interest. At December 31, 2006, the Company was a party to the following outstanding fair value hedges: Interest rate swaps totaling $700 million in notional amount, which mature on May 1, 2007. Interest rate swaps totaling $300 million in notional amount, which mature on May 15, 2018. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company did not have any interest rate cash flow hedges outstanding. Credit Risk The Company continually monitors its positions with, and credit quality of, the financial institutions which are counterparties to its financial instruments. The Company is exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties to the agreements. However, the Company does not anticipate nonperformance by the counterparties. II 34 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) The Companys receivables do not represent significant concentrations of credit risk at December 31, 2006 or 2005, due to the wide variety of customers, markets and geographic areas to which the Companys products and services are sold. Related Parties National Amusements, Inc. National Amusements, Inc. ("NAI") is the controlling stockholder of CBS Corp. Mr. Sumner M. Redstone, the controlling stockholder, chairman of the board of directors and chief executive officer of NAI, serves as the Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors for both CBS Corp. and Viacom Inc. At December 31, 2006, NAI beneficially owned CBS Corp.s Class A Common Stock, representing approximately 76% of the voting power of all classes of CBS Corp.s Common Stock, and approximately 11% of the CBS Corp.s Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock on a combined basis. On October 28, 2004, Former Viacom entered into an agreement (the "NAIRI Agreement") with NAI and NAIRI, Inc. ("NAIRI"), a wholly owned subsidiary of NAI, pursuant to which Former Viacom agreed to buy, and NAI and NAIRI agreed to sell, a number of shares of Class B Common Stock each month such that the ownership percentage of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock (considered as a single class) held by NAI and or NAIRI would not increase as a result of purchases of shares of Former Viacom common stock under its $8.0 billion stock purchase program announced in October 2004. Pursuant to this agreement, Former Viacom purchased 9.2 million shares of Former Viacom class B common stock from NAIRI for $628.9 million in 2005. All Former Viacom share and per share data have been adjusted to reflect the Share Conversion. The Company did not make any purchases under this stock purchase program during 2006. Viacom Inc. In accordance with the terms of the Separation Agreement, Viacom Inc. paid to the Company an estimated special dividend of $5.4 billion in December 2005. Pursuant to the provisions of the Separation Agreement, the estimated special dividend is subject to adjustment. During 2006, Viacom Inc. paid to the Company the net undisputed adjustment to the special dividend of $172 million plus net interest of $3.1 million. In January 2007, CBS Corp. and Viacom Inc. resolved the remaining disputed items with respect to the special dividend and Viacom Inc. paid to the Company an additional $170 million, resulting in an aggregate adjustment to the special dividend of $342 million. CBS Corp., through its normal course of business, is involved in transactions with companies owned by or affiliated with Viacom Inc. CBS Corp., through its Television segment, licenses its television products to Viacom Inc., primarily MTV Networks and BET. In addition, CBS Corp. recognizes advertising revenues for media spending placed by various subsidiaries of Viacom Inc., primarily Paramount Pictures. Paramount Pictures also distributes certain of the Companys television products in the home entertainment market. Simon & Schuster is also involved in transactions with Viacom Inc. that have not been material in any of the periods presented. CBS Corp.s total revenues from these transactions were $222.8 million, $173.6 million and $378.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. CBS Corp., through Showtime Networks and CBS Television, purchases motion picture programming from Viacom Inc., primarily Paramount Pictures. The costs of these purchases are initially recorded as programming inventory and amortized over the life of the contract or projected useful life of the programming. In addition, CBS Corp. places advertisements with various subsidiaries of Viacom Inc. The total purchases from these transactions were $198.7 million, $153.1 million and $155.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. II 35 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) The following table presents the amounts due from or due to Viacom Inc. in the normal course of business as reflected on CBS Corp.s Consolidated Balance Sheets: At December 31, 2006 2005 Amounts due from Viacom Inc. Receivables $ 187.2 $ 235.8 Other assets (Receivables, non current) 260.7 225.2 Total amounts due from Viacom Inc. $ 447.9 $ 461.0 Amounts due to Viacom Inc. Accounts payable $ 5.2 $ 3.3 Program rights 56.1 64.7 Other liabilities (Program rights, non current) 10.7 41.2 Total amounts due to Viacom Inc. $ 72.0 $ 109.2 Other Related Parties The Company owned approximately 19% of Westwood One as of December 31, 2006, which is accounted for by the Company as an equity investment. Two members of Westwood Ones current board of directors are officers of CBS Radio. CBS Radio receives compensation for providing management services to Westwood One pursuant to a Management Agreement, including the services of a chief executive officer who is an employee of CBS Radio. Westwood One and CBS Radio also are parties to a Representation Agreement (including a related News Programming Agreement, Trademark License Agreement and Technical Services Agreement) pursuant to which Westwood One operates the CBS Radio Networks and CBS Radio is paid an annual fee. The Management Agreement and Representation Agreement expire on March 31, 2009. Certain of the Companys radio stations and Westwood One have affiliation agreements pursuant to which such radio stations air programs and or commercials supplied by Westwood One and, in return, the stations receive affiliation fees and certain programming cost reimbursements. CBS Television also has arrangements with Westwood One relating to the provision of news and sports programming to Westwood One. Revenues from all of these arrangements were approximately $75.6 million, $81.3 million and $82.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The Company, through the normal course of business, is involved in transactions with other affiliated companies that have not been material in any of the periods presented. Adoption of New Accounting Standards Effective December 31, 2006, the Company adopted SFAS No. 158 "Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)" ("SFAS 158"), effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2006. SFAS 158 requires the balance sheet recognition of the overfunded or underfunded status of each defined benefit pension plan and other postretirement benefit plan as an asset or a liability along with a corresponding after tax adjustment to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) included in stockholders equity. The incremental effect of the adoption was a decrease of $51.1 million to stockholders equity. In September 2006, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff Accounting Bulletin ("SAB") No. 108 ("SAB 108"), effective for fiscal years ending after November 15, 2006. SAB 108 provides interpretive guidance on how the effects of the carryover or reversal of prior year misstatements should be considered in quantifying a current year misstatement for the purpose of a materiality assessment. The II 36 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) adoption of SAB 108 as of December 31, 2006, had no effect on the Companys consolidated financial statements. Recent Pronouncements In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, "Fair Value Measurements" ("SFAS 157"), effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007 and interim periods within those fiscal years. SFAS 157 establishes a framework for measuring fair value under generally accepted accounting principles and expands disclosures about fair value measurement. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of SFAS 157 on the consolidated financial statements. In June 2006, the FASB issued FIN 48, effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in a companys financial statements in accordance with SFAS No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes." FIN 48 prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. Effective January 1, 2007, the cumulative effect of applying the provisions of FIN 48 will be reported as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings. The Company does not expect the adoption of FIN 48 to have a material effect on the Companys consolidated financial statements. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. Response to this is included in "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition Market Risk." II 37  
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Managements discussion and analysis of the results of operations and financial condition should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related Notes. Descriptions of all documents incorporated by reference herein or included as exhibits hereto are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of such documents so incorporated or included. Please see Item 1A. Risk Factors in Part I of this report for the Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward Looking Statements and Risk Factors. Separation The separation of former Viacom Inc. ("Former Viacom") into two publicly traded entities, CBS Corporation (together with its consolidated subsidiaries unless the context otherwise requires, the "Company" or "CBS Corp.") and new Viacom Inc. ("Viacom Inc.") was completed on December 31, 2005 (the "Separation"). The Separation was accomplished pursuant to a merger in which a subsidiary of Former Viacom was merged with and into Former Viacom, with Former Viacom continuing as the surviving entity. On December 31, 2005, Former Viacom was renamed "CBS Corporation" and each outstanding share of Former Viacom class A common stock was converted into the right to receive .5 of a share of CBS Corp. class A common stock, $0.001 par value ("Class A Common Stock"), and .5 of a share of Viacom Inc. class A common stock and each outstanding share of Former Viacom class B common stock was converted into the right to receive .5 of a share of CBS Corp. class B common stock, $0.001 par value ("Class B Common Stock"), and .5 of a share of Viacom Inc. class B common stock. As a result of the one share for .5 share conversion ("Share Conversion"), all Former Viacom share and per share data have been adjusted for prior year periods presented, unless otherwise indicated. The results of Viacom Inc. have been presented as discontinued operations for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. In connection with the Separation, CBS Corp. and Viacom Inc. entered into a separation agreement (the "Separation Agreement"). In accordance with the terms of the Separation Agreement, Viacom Inc. paid to the Company an estimated special dividend of $5.4 billion in December 2005. Pursuant to the provisions of the Separation Agreement, the estimated special dividend was subject to adjustment. During 2006, Viacom Inc. paid to the Company the net undisputed adjustment to the special dividend of $172 million plus net interest of $3.1 million. In January 2007, CBS Corp. and Viacom Inc. resolved the remaining disputed items with respect to the special dividend and Viacom Inc. paid to the Company an additional $170 million, resulting in an aggregate adjustment to the special dividend of $342 million. Overview CBS Corp. is comprised of the following segments: Television, Radio, Outdoor and Publishing. On June 30, 2006, the Company sold Paramount Parks to Cedar Fair, L.P. for $1.24 billion in cash. As a result, Paramount Parks is presented as a discontinued operation in the consolidated financial statements for all periods presented. II 4  Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) CBS Corp. operates in the following segments: TELEVISION: The Television segment consists of CBS Television, comprised of the CBS Network, the Companys owned television stations, and its television production and syndication operations; Showtime Networks; and CSTV Networks. Television revenues are generated primarily from advertising sales, television license fees and affiliate revenues. Television contributed 66% to consolidated revenues for each of the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, and 67% for the year ended December 31, 2004. RADIO: The Radio segment owns radio stations in most of the large U.S. markets. Radio revenues are generated primarily from advertising sales. During 2006, the Company entered into agreements to sell 39 radio stations in ten of its smaller markets. Radio contributed 14% to consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006 and 15% for each of the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. OUTDOOR: The Outdoor segment, principally through CBS Outdoor, displays advertising on media including billboards, transit shelters, buses, rail systems (in car, station platforms and terminals), mall kiosks, masts and stadium signage. Outdoor revenues are generated primarily from advertising sales. Outdoor contributed 15%, 14% and 13% to consolidated revenues for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. PUBLISHING: The Publishing segment consists of Simon & Schusters consumer book publishing business with imprints such as Simon & Schuster, Pocket Books, Scribner and Free Press. Publishing contributed 6% to consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006 and 5% for each of the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. II 5 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Consolidated Results of Operations 2006 vs. 2005 and 2005 vs. 2004 Revenues The tables below present the Companys consolidated revenues by type, net of intercompany eliminations, for each of the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. Revenues by Type Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 Increase/ (Decrease) 2006 vs. 2005 2004 Increase/ (Decrease) 2005 vs. 2004 Advertising sales $ 10,373.1 $ 10,415.7 $ (42.6 ) % $ 10,180.6 $ 235.1 2 % Television license fees 1,606.8 1,277.2 329.6 26 1,622.1 (344.9 ) (21 ) Affiliate revenues 1,069.6 992.1 77.5 8 968.5 23.6 2 Publishing 807.0 763.6 43.4 6 750.9 12.7 2 Home entertainment 83.4 259.7 (176.3 ) (68 ) 229.5 30.2 13 Other 380.3 404.7 (24.4 ) (6 ) 386.7 18.0 5 Total Revenues $ 14,320.2 $ 14,113.0 $ 207.2 1 % $ 14,138.3 $ (25.3 ) % Year Ended December 31, Percentage of Revenues by Type 2006 2005 2004 Advertising sales 72 % 74 % 72 % Television license fees 11 9 11 Affiliate revenues 7 7 7 Publishing 6 5 5 Home entertainment 1 2 2 Other 3 3 3 Total 100 % 100 % 100 % Advertising sales decreased $42.6 million in 2006 to $10.37 billion from $10.42 billion in 2005 reflecting decreases at Radio and Television, partially offset by growth at Outdoor. Radio advertising sales decreased 8% reflecting weakness in the overall radio advertising market and the impact of programming changes at 27 owned radio stations during 2006. Television advertising sales decreased 1% primarily reflecting the shutdown of the Companys network, UPN, in September 2006 and decreases at CBS Network, partially offset by strong political advertising sales at the television stations. Outdoor advertising sales increased 8% reflecting a 9% increase in North America, primarily in U.S. billboards, and a 4% increase in Europe. In 2005, advertising sales increased 2% to $10.42 billion in 2005 from $10.18 billion in 2004 reflecting growth in Television, from strength in CBS/UPN Networks primetime partially offset by the absence of the 2004 telecast of the Super Bowl on CBS Network and lower political advertising, and increases in Outdoor and Radio. Television license fees increased 26% to $1.61 billion in 2006 from $1.28 billion in 2005 principally reflecting higher revenues from the domestic syndication sales of CSI: Miami and Without a Trace, the basic cable availability and off network syndication of Frasier, the basic cable availability of Star Trek: Voyager and higher foreign syndication revenues, partially offset by the absence of license fees from the prior year second cycle cable renewal of Everybody Loves Raymond and lower network license fees in 2006. Television license fees decreased 21% to $1.28 billion in 2005 from $1.62 billion in 2004 principally reflecting the absence of revenues from the 2004 basic cable availability of Star Trek: Deep Space Nine and the absence of license fees for Frasier, which was no longer in production in 2005. II 6   Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Affiliate revenues increased 8% to $1.07 billion in 2006 from $992.1 million in 2005 driven by rate increases and subscriber growth at Showtime Networks and the inclusion of CSTV Networks since its acquisition in January 2006. Affiliate revenues increased 2% to $992.1 million in 2005 from $968.5 million in 2004, reflecting rate increases and subscriber growth at Showtime Networks. Publishing revenues increased 6% to $807.0 million in 2006 and increased 2% to $763.6 million in 2005 from $750.9 million in 2004. The increases were primarily driven by the success of top selling titles. Home entertainment revenues decreased $176.3 million, or 68%, to $83.4 million in 2006 from $259.7 million in 2005, principally reflecting the switch from self distribution in 2005 to third party distribution in 2006. Home entertainment revenues increased 13% to $259.7 million in 2005 from $229.5 million in 2004 reflecting the mix of available DVD releases. Other revenues, which include ancillary fees for Television and Radio operations, decreased 6% to $380.3 million in 2006 from $404.7 million in 2005 primarily reflecting lower revenues from the licensing and merchandising of television product and third party use of the studio facility. For 2005, other revenues increased 5% to $404.7 million from $386.7 million in 2004 primarily reflecting other revenues from acquired companies. International Revenues The Company generated approximately 11% of its total revenues from international regions in 2006, 12% in 2005 and 11% in 2004. Year Ended December 31, 2006 Percentage of Total 2005 Percentage of Total 2004 Percentage of Total United Kingdom $ 484.5 31 % $ 491.2 30 % $ 459.9 30 % Other Europe 548.5 35 666.4 41 603.5 40 Canada 276.5 17 284.4 17 264.2 17 All other 270.8 17 190.4 12 204.8 13 Total International Revenues $ 1,580.3 100 % $ 1,632.4 100 % $ 1,532.4 100 % Operating Expenses The table below presents the Companys consolidated operating expenses by type: Operating Expenses by Type Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 Increase/ (Decrease) 2006 vs. 2005 2004 Increase/ (Decrease) 2005 vs. 2004 Programming $ 3,354.7 $ 3,453.4 $ (98.7 ) (3)% $ 3,442.0 $ 11.4 % Production 2,585.1 2,403.6 181.5 8 2,539.8 (136.2 ) (5) Outdoor operations 1,168.3 1,134.2 34.1 3 1,102.7 31.5 3 Publishing operations 539.2 525.0 14.2 3 517.6 7.4 1 Other 777.5 862.1 (84.6 ) (10) 764.1 98.0 13 Total Operating Expenses $ 8,424.8 $ 8,378.3 $ 46.5 1% $ 8,366.2 $ 12.1 % II 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) For 2006, operating expenses of $8.42 billion increased 1% from $8.38 billion in 2005. For 2005, operating expenses of $8.38 billion increased $12.1 million from $8.37 billion in 2004. The major components and changes in operating expenses were as follows: Programming expenses represented 40% of total operating expenses in 2006, and 41% in 2005 and 2004, and reflect the amortization of acquired rights of programs exhibited on the broadcast and cable networks, and television and radio stations. Programming expenses decreased 3% to $3.35 billion in 2006 from $3.45 billion in 2005 reflecting lower costs associated with primetime series at the broadcast network, the shutdown of UPN and lower sports programming expenses at Radio. Programming expenses increased $11.4 million to $3.45 billion in 2005 from $3.44 billion in 2004 principally reflecting higher costs for Showtime Networks theatrical and series titles. Production expenses represented 31% of total operating expenses in 2006, 29% in 2005 and 30% in 2004, and reflect the costs and amortization of internally developed television programs, including direct production costs, residuals and participation expenses, and production overhead, as well as television and radio costs, including on air talent and other production costs. Production expenses increased 8% to $2.59 billion in 2006 from $2.40 billion in 2005 principally reflecting higher costs relating to the 2006 syndication sales of Frasier and CSI: Miami. Production expenses decreased 5% to $2.40 billion in 2005 from $2.54 billion in 2004 reflecting lower network costs due to the absence of Frasier, partially offset by increased costs for new network series. Outdoor operations expenses represented 14% of total operating expenses in 2006 and 2005, and 13% in 2004, and reflect transit and billboard lease, maintenance, posting and rotation expenses. Outdoor operations expenses increased 3% to $1.17 billion in 2006 from $1.13 billion in 2005 principally reflecting higher transit and billboard lease costs partially offset by the absence of the impact of 2005 hurricanes. Outdoor operations expenses increased 3% to $1.13 billion in 2005 from $1.10 billion in 2004 primarily reflecting higher billboard lease costs and maintenance costs associated with the impact of hurricanes in 2005. Publishing operations expenses, which represented 6% of total operating expenses in 2006, 2005 and 2004, reflect cost of book sales, royalties and other costs incurred with respect to publishing operations. Publishing operations expenses for 2006 increased 3% to $539.2 million from $525.0 million in 2005 reflecting higher production, return, and freight and delivery costs partially offset by lower royalty expenses. Publishing operations expenses increased 1% to $525.0 million in 2005 from $517.6 million in 2004, primarily due to higher revenues. Other operating expenses, which represented 9% of total operating expenses in 2006, 10% in 2005 and 9% in 2004, primarily include distribution costs incurred with respect to television product, costs associated with digital media, and compensation. Other operating costs decreased 10% to $777.5 million in 2006 from $862.1 million in 2005 primarily reflecting lower home entertainment distribution costs due to the switch from self distribution in 2005 to third party distribution in 2006, partially offset by higher costs associated with digital media investment and expansion. Other operating expenses for 2005 increased 13% to $862.1 million in 2005 from $764.1 million in 2004 principally reflecting 10% higher distribution costs due to the DVD release of Charmed and increased costs associated with digital media from the inclusion of SportsLine.com since its acquisition in December 2004. II 8 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") expenses, which include expenses incurred for selling and marketing costs, occupancy and back office support, were 19% of revenues for 2006 and 2005, and 18% of revenues for 2004. SG&A expenses increased $104.6 million, or 4%, to $2.78 billion in 2006 from $2.68 billion in 2005, primarily reflecting higher employee related costs, including an increase in stock based compensation of $46.7 million, the inclusion of CSTV Networks since its acquisition in January 2006 and $24.0 million of UPN shutdown costs, partially offset by lower expenses resulting from the absence of UPN since September 2006. In 2006, pension and postretirement benefits costs increased $39.6 million from 2005, primarily due to an increase in pension costs from the recognition of higher actuarial losses, which resulted from the change in the mortality rate assumption and lower than expected plan asset performance in 2005 partially offset by lower postretirement benefit costs reflecting the effect of a Medicare Part D subsidy. Advertising expenses of $328.1 million included in SG&A expenses decreased 4% from 2005 primarily due to lower spending at Television, principally reflecting the shutdown of UPN. For 2005, SG&A expenses increased $152.9 million, or 6%, to $2.68 billion in 2005 from $2.53 billion in 2004, primarily reflecting transition costs and professional fees related to the Separation, higher employee compensation, advertising and marketing costs, as well as incremental SG&A expenses from SportsLine.com. In 2005, pension and postretirement benefits increased $12.8 million from 2004 primarily due to a lower discount rate. Advertising expenses of $343.5 million included in SG&A expenses increased 3% reflecting increased spending primarily at Radio and Television. Impairment Charges The Company recorded a pre tax impairment charge of $65.2 million in the fourth quarter of 2006 to reduce the carrying value of the allocated goodwill for certain television stations to be disposed (see Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") 142 "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" ("SFAS 142") requires the Company to perform a fair value based impairment test of goodwill on at least an annual basis. The first step of the test examines whether or not the book value of each of the Companys reporting units exceeds its fair value. If the book value for a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step of the test is required to compare the implied fair value of that reporting units goodwill with the book value of its goodwill. The Companys reporting units are generally one level below or at the operating segment level. Effective for the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company tested for goodwill impairment for the Radio operating segment at its geographic component level. The estimated fair value of each reporting unit was computed principally based upon the present value of future cash flows (Discounted Cash Flow Method) and both the traded and transaction values of comparable businesses (Market Comparable Method). The Discounted Cash Flow Method and Market Comparable Method were weighted equally and resulted in substantially equal fair values. As a result of the 2005 annual impairment test, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $9.48 billion in the fourth quarter of 2005. The $9.48 billion reflected charges to reduce the carrying value of goodwill at the Television segment of $6.44 billion and the Radio segment of $3.05 billion. During 2005, traded values decreased for both the television and radio broadcasting industries. Broadcast advertising spending is closely correlated to the U.S. economy, which was negatively impacted by, among other things, higher interest rates and energy prices. In addition, a reduction in advertising spending in certain business sectors led to a reduction in forecasted cash flows and long term growth rates. II 9 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) As a result, the Company reduced its revenue, operating profit and cash flow projections for the reporting units underlying the Television and Radio segments to reflect then current market conditions. As a result of the annual impairment test performed for 2004, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $18.0 billion in the fourth quarter of 2004. The $18.0 billion reflected charges to reduce the carrying value of goodwill at the Radio segment of $10.94 billion and the Outdoor segment of $7.06 billion as well as a reduction of the carrying value of intangible assets of $27.8 million related to the FCC licenses at the Radio segment. Several factors led to a reduction in forecasted cash flows and long term growth rates for both Radio and Outdoor. Radio and Outdoor both fell short of budgeted revenue and operating income growth targets in 2004. Competition from other advertising media, including Internet advertising and cable and broadcast television, reduced Radio and Outdoor growth rates. Also, the emergence of new competitors and technologies necessitated a shift in managements strategy for the Radio and Outdoor businesses, including changes in composition of the sales force and operating management as well as increased levels of investment in marketing and promotion. Depreciation and Amortization For 2006, depreciation and amortization decreased slightly to $439.5 million from $440.1 million. For 2005, depreciation and amortization decreased 2% to $440.1 million from $449.8 million primarily reflecting lower depreciation expense for outdoor advertising properties. Interest Expense For 2006, interest expense decreased 22% to $565.5 million from $720.5 million due to lower debt balances in 2006. In the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company received from Viacom Inc. a $5.4 billion special cash dividend as a result of the Separation, which was used by the Company to repay outstanding commercial paper, debt outstanding under a revolving credit facility and certain fixed rate debt upon maturity in January 2006. In addition, certain fixed rate debt was repaid during 2005, upon maturity. For 2005, interest expense increased 4% to $720.5 million from $694.0 million primarily due to higher average bank debt and commercial paper borrowings, and higher interest rates partially offset by lower average fixed rate debt balances. The Company had approximately $7.04 billion at December 31, 2006 and $7.90 billion at December 31, 2005 of principal amount of debt outstanding (including current maturities) at weighted average interest rates of 7.0% and 6.9%, respectively. Interest Income For 2006, interest income increased to $112.1 million from $21.3 million, principally resulting from an increase in cash and cash equivalents, primarily reflecting the proceeds from the sale of Paramount Parks and cash flow from operations. For 2005, interest income increased by $.3 million to $21.3 million. Loss on Early Extinguishment of Debt For 2006, "Loss on early extinguishment of debt" of $6.0 million reflected losses recognized upon the early redemption of $52.2 million of the Companys 7.70% senior notes due 2010 and $50.0 million of the Companys 6.625% senior notes due 2011. Other Items, Net For 2006, "Other items, net" reflected a net loss of $14.3 million principally consisting of losses associated with securitizing trade receivables of $31.0 million, a non cash charge of $6.2 million associated II 10 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) with an other than temporary decline in the market value of one of the Companys investments and foreign exchange losses of $2.0 million, partially offset by a net gain of $24.6 million on the sales of certain radio stations. For 2005, "Other items, net" of $4.3 million principally reflected a net gain of $86.2 million from the sale of investments and businesses, and foreign exchange gains of $9.9 million, partially offset by losses associated with securitizing trade receivables of $23.8 million and a non cash charge of $67.9 million to reflect other than temporary declines in the market value of certain radio investments. For 2004, "Other items, net" of $24.4 million principally reflected foreign exchange gains of $25.2 million and a net gain on the sale of investments and businesses of $32.5 million, partially offset by a non cash charge of $21.7 million associated with other than temporary declines in the Companys investments and losses associated with securitizing trade receivables of $11.6 million. Provision for Income Taxes The provision for income taxes represents federal, state and local, and foreign income taxes on earnings (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes, equity in earnings (loss) of affiliated companies, minority interest and cumulative effect of accounting change. The provision for income taxes for continuing operations was $652.2 million, $794.2 million and $597.1 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The annual effective tax rate was 30.6% in 2006 versus (10.5%) in 2005 and (3.8%) in 2004. The effective tax rate for 2006 reflects the impact of tax benefits from the settlement of certain income tax audits of $164.1 million, as well as lower tax amounts owed per the federal, state and local, and foreign income tax returns. Included in the 2005 and 2004 rates was the impact of the pre tax non cash impairment charges of $9.48 billion ($9.46 billion, net of tax) and $18.0 billion ($17.89 billion, net of tax), respectively, to reduce the carrying value of goodwill. The 2004 rate included tax benefits of $128.4 million from the settlement of certain income tax audits. Equity in Earnings (Loss) of Affiliated Companies, Net of Tax Equity in earnings (loss) of affiliated companies, net of tax, reflects the operating results of the Companys equity investments. Equity in earnings (loss) of affiliated companies, net of tax reflected a net loss of $97.0 million for 2006, a net loss of $1.5 million for 2005 and net earnings of $19.2 million for 2004. For 2006 and 2005, the net losses principally reflected non cash impairment charges of $94.2 million and $20.7 million, respectively, associated with other than temporary declines in the market value of the Companys investment in Westwood One. The net loss in 2006 also reflects operating losses from the Companys 50% investment in The CW, a new broadcast network. For 2004, results principally reflected equity earnings of Westwood One, partially offset by losses from certain Internet investments. Minority Interest, Net of Tax Minority interest primarily represents the minority ownership of certain international entities. Net Earnings (Loss) from Continuing Operations For 2006, the Company reported net earnings from continuing operations of $1.38 billion versus a net loss from continuing operations of $8.36 billion in 2005, and a net loss from continuing operations of $16.43 billion in 2004. The loss in 2005 was driven by the non cash impairment charge for goodwill of II 11 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) $9.48 billion. The loss in 2004 was driven by the non cash impairment charge for goodwill and intangible assets of $18.0 billion. Net Earnings from Discontinued Operations On June 30, 2006, Paramount Parks was sold to Cedar Fair, L.P. for $1.24 billion in cash. The results of Paramount Parks are presented as a discontinued operation in the consolidated financial statements for all periods presented. The Separation of Former Viacom was accounted for by the Company as a spin off of Viacom Inc. Accordingly, the operations of Viacom Inc. are presented as discontinued operations in the Companys consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. The following tables set forth the detail of CBS Corp.s net earnings from discontinued operations. For the year ended December 31, 2006, net earnings from discontinued operations primarily reflected the operating results and gain on the sale of Paramount Parks. Net earnings from discontinued operations for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 included the operating results of Paramount Parks as well as Viacom Inc. Year Ended December 31, 2006 Total Revenues from discontinued operations $ 158.9 Loss from discontinued operations $ (1.3 ) Gain on sale of Paramount Parks 454.8 Earnings from discontinued operations before income taxes 453.5 Provision for income taxes (175.9 ) Net earnings from discontinued operations $ 277.6 Year Ended December 31, 2005 Viacom Inc. Paramount Parks Total Revenues from discontinued operations $ 9,489.1 $ 423.5 $ 9,912.6 Income from discontinued operations $ 2,318.9 $ 52.6 $ 2,371.5 Loss on disposal of discontinued operations (72.9 ) (72.9 ) Minority interest (8.2 ) (8.2 ) Earnings from discontinued operations before income taxes 2,237.8 52.6 2,290.4 Provision for income taxes (1,005.1 ) (13.8 ) (1,018.9 ) Net earnings from discontinued operations $ 1,232.7 $ 38.8 $ 1,271.5 II 12 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Year Ended December 31, 2004 Viacom Inc. Paramount Parks Total Revenues from discontinued operations $ 12,518.0 $ 409.9 $ 12,927.9 Income from discontinued operations $ 702.4 $ 48.6 $ 751.0 Loss on disposal of discontinued operations (38.2 ) (38.2 ) Minority interest 252.8 252.8 Earnings from discontinued operations before income taxes 917.0 48.6 965.6 Provision for income taxes (674.9 ) (11.8 ) (686.7 ) Net earnings from discontinued operations $ 242.1 $ 36.8 $ 278.9 Included in discontinued operations in 2004 is a non cash impairment charge of $1.50 billion ($1.16 billion, net of minority interest and tax) for the impairment of goodwill and other long lived assets in accordance with SFAS 142 and SFAS 144. Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change, Net of Tax Effective December 31, 2004, the Company elected early adoption of Emerging Issues Task Force Topic No. D 108 "Use of the Residual Method to Value Acquired Assets Other Than Goodwill" ("D 108"). D 108 requires companies who have applied the residual value method in the valuation of intangible assets for purposes of impairment testing to use the direct value method. As a result of the adoption, the Company recorded a charge of $2.18 billion ($1.31 billion, net of tax), or $1.53 per diluted share, to reduce the intangible asset balances attributable to its television stations FCC licenses. This charge has been reflected as a cumulative effect of accounting change, net of tax. Net Earnings (Loss) For 2006, the Company reported net earnings of $1.66 billion versus a net loss of $7.09 billion in 2005 and a net loss of $17.46 billion in 2004. For 2005 and 2004, the losses were driven by the non cash impairment charges of $9.48 billion in 2005 and $18.0 billion in 2004. For 2004, the net loss also included, in discontinued operations, an after tax non cash charge for the impairment of goodwill and other long lived assets of $1.16 billion. II 13   Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Segment Results of Operations For the Years Ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 The tables below present the Companys revenues, Segment operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization and impairment charges ("Segment OIBDA before Impairment Charges"), operating income (loss), and depreciation and amortization by segment, for each of the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Revenues: Television $ 9,487.1 $ 9,325.2 $ 9,448.5 Radio 1,959.9 2,114.8 2,096.1 Outdoor 2,103.4 1,949.3 1,880.2 Publishing 807.0 763.6 750.9 Eliminations (37.2 ) (39.9 ) (37.4 ) Total Revenues $ 14,320.2 $ 14,113.0 $ 14,138.3 Segment OIBDA before Impairment Charges (a): Television $ 1,947.7 $ 1,824.7 $ 1,981.2 Radio 820.0 925.0 948.2 Outdoor 568.0 469.9 453.9 Publishing 78.0 74.6 74.3 Corporate (162.9 ) (120.5 ) (98.5 ) Residual costs (139.7 ) (118.7 ) (113.8 ) Impairment charges (b) (65.2 ) (9,484.4 ) (17,997.1 ) Depreciation and amortization (439.5 ) (440.1 ) (449.8 ) Total Operating Income (Loss) $ 2,606.4 $ (6,869.5 ) $ (15,201.6 ) Operating Income (Loss): Television (b) $ 1,711.0 $ (4,791.5 ) $ 1,807.5 Radio (b) 787.4 (2,154.1 ) (10,023.5 ) Outdoor (b) 351.8 260.5 (6,824.5 ) Publishing 68.5 66.0 64.1 Corporate (172.6 ) (131.7 ) (111.4 ) Residual costs (139.7 ) (118.7 ) (113.8 ) Total Operating Income (Loss) $ 2,606.4 $ (6,869.5 ) $ (15,201.6 ) (a)The Company presents Segment OIBDA before Impairment Charges as the primary measure of profit and loss for its operating segments in accordance with SFAS 131 "Disclosure about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information" ("SFAS 131"). The Company believes the presentation of Segment OIBDA before Impairment Charges is relevant and useful for investors because it allows investors to view segment performance in a manner similar to the primary method used by the Companys management and enhances their ability to understand the Companys operating performance. The reconciliation of Segment OIBDA before Impairment Charges to the Companys consolidated net earnings (loss) is presented in Note 16 (Reportable Segments) to the Consolidated Financial Statements. (b)The Company recorded a non cash impairment charge of $65.2 million in the Television segment during the fourth quarter of 2006 to reduce the carrying value of the allocated goodwill for certain television stations to be disposed. As a result of the Companys annual goodwill and intangible assets impairment tests, non cash charges of $9.48 billion and $18.0 billion were recorded in 2005 and 2004, respectively, to reduce the carrying value of goodwill in 2005, and goodwill and intangible assets in 2004. The 2005 charge of $9.48 billion is comprised of $6.44 billion for the Television segment and $3.05 billion for the Radio segment. The 2004 charge of $18.0 billion is comprised of $10.94 billion for the Radio segment and $7.06 billion for the Outdoor segment. II 14 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Depreciation and Amortization: Television $ 171.5 $ 178.8 $ 173.7 Radio 32.6 32.1 29.9 Outdoor 216.2 209.4 223.1 Publishing 9.5 8.6 10.2 Corporate 9.7 11.2 12.9 Total Depreciation and Amortization $ 439.5 $ 440.1 $ 449.8 Segment Results of Operations 2006 vs. 2005 and 2005 vs. 2004 Television (CBS Television Network and Stations, CBS Paramount Network Television, CBS Television Distribution, Showtime Networks and CSTV Networks) (Contributed 66% of consolidated revenues for each of the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, and 67% for the year ended December 31, 2004.) Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Revenues $ 9,487.1 $ 9,325.2 $ 9,448.5 OIBDA before impairment charges $ 1,947.7 $ 1,824.7 $ 1,981.2 Impairment charges (65.2 ) (6,437.4 ) Depreciation and amortization (171.5 ) (178.8 ) (173.7 ) Operating income (loss) $ 1,711.0 $ (4,791.5 ) $ 1,807.5 Operating income as a % of revenues 18% NM 19% Capital expenditures $ 216.5 $ 197.2 $ 118.5 NM Not meaningful 2006 vs. 2005 For 2006, Television revenues increased $161.9 million, or 2%, to $9.49 billion primarily due to growth in television license fee and affiliate revenues partially offset by a decrease in home entertainment and advertising revenues. Television license fee revenues increased 26% due to the 2006 domestic syndication sales of CSI: Miami and Without a Trace, the basic cable availability and off network syndication of Frasier, the cable availability of Star Trek: Voyager and higher foreign syndication revenues partially offset by the absence of license fees from the prior year second cycle cable renewal of Everybody Loves Raymond and lower network license fees. Affiliate revenues increased 8% primarily due to rate increases and subscriber growth at Showtime Networks, and the inclusion of CSTV Networks results since its acquisition in January 2006. Advertising sales decreased 1% primarily due to the shutdown of UPN and decreases at CBS Network partially offset by a 7% increase in advertising sales at the television stations mainly due to higher political advertising sales. Home entertainment revenues decreased 68% principally due to the switch from self distribution in 2005 to third party distribution in 2006. For 2006, Television reported operating income of $1.71 billion versus an operating loss of $4.79 billion in 2005. Included in 2006 and 2005 were non cash impairment charges of $65.2 million and $6.44 billion, respectively, to reduce the carrying value of goodwill. Television OIBDA before II 15 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) impairment charges increased $123.0 million, or 7%, to $1.95 billion in 2006 from $1.82 billion in 2005. This increase primarily reflects the increases in revenues noted above and lower costs associated with primetime series at the broadcast network partially offset by higher production costs for the syndication sales of Frasier and CSI: Miami, $24.0 million of UPN shutdown costs and higher stock based compensation. Included in total Television expenses is stock based compensation of $31.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 versus $7.1 million for the prior year. Capital expenditures increased $19.3 million to $216.5 million in 2006 from $197.2 million in 2005, principally reflecting increased spending for buildings and technical equipment. On February 26, 2007, the Company completed the sale of its television station in New Orleans for $4.3 million. On February 7, 2007, the Company announced that it entered into an agreement to sell seven of its owned television stations in Austin, Salt Lake City, Providence and West Palm Beach to Cerberus Capital Management, L.P. for approximately $185 million. On February 13, 2007, the Company entered into an exchange agreement with Liberty Media Corporation to exchange the stock of a subsidiary of the Company which holds CBS Corp.s Green Bay television station and its satellite television station, and approximately $170 million in cash, subject to adjustment, for the 7.6 million shares of CBS Corp. Class B Common Stock held by Liberty Media Corporation. These transactions are subject to FCC approval and customary closing conditions. The Company recorded a pre tax impairment charge of $65.2 million in the fourth quarter of 2006 to reduce the carrying value of allocated goodwill for the television stations to be disposed. During September 2006, the Company combined the resources of its syndication and distribution operations. As a result, restructuring charges of $11.6 million were recorded in SG&A expenses in the Television segment during the year ended December 31, 2006. The charges reflected severance costs of $9.7 million and legal, lease termination and other expenses of $1.9 million. The Company paid $.5 million of the restructuring charges during 2006. The CW, a new broadcast network and 50/50% joint venture with Warner Bros. Entertainment, was launched in September 2006. The CW has been accounted for as an equity investment beginning in the second quarter of 2006. As a result, the Companys network, UPN, ceased broadcasting its network schedule at the conclusion of the 2005/2006 broadcast season. In connection with the shutdown of UPN, the Television segment recorded shutdown costs of $24.0 million in SG&A expenses in the second quarter of 2006. The charges reflected costs associated with contract terminations of $13.6 million and severance, legal and other expenses of $10.4 million. The Company paid $4.4 million of the shutdown costs during 2006. On January 5, 2006, the Company completed the acquisition of CSTV Networks, a cable network and online digital sports media company, for a purchase price of approximately $325 million, comprised of 10.2 million shares of CBS Corp. Class B Common Stock and $52 million in cash. The results of CSTV Networks have been included in the Television segment since its date of acquisition. License fees for completed television programming in syndication and on cable are recorded as revenues in the period that the products are available for exhibition, which, among other reasons, may cause substantial fluctuation in operating results. Unrecognized revenues attributable to such licensing agreements were approximately $675.5 million and $788.1 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. 2005 vs. 2004 For 2005, Television revenues decreased $123.3 million, or 1%, to $9.33 billion as advertising sales growth of 2% was more than offset by lower television license fee revenues. CBS and UPN combined II 16 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) advertising increased 4% with a 7% increase in primetime due to 6% average rate increases, partially offset by a decline in sports from the absence of the Super Bowl. For 2005, advertising sales at the television stations decreased 2%, as 2004 advertising sales benefited from political spending in a presidential election year and the telecast of the Super Bowl on CBS. Television license fee revenues for 2005 decreased 21% reflecting lower domestic syndication and network revenues. Domestic syndication revenues decreased as contributions from 2005 availabilities, including the Insider, Becker and Diagnosis Murder, did not match 2004 contributions from Star Trek: Deep Space Nine, Frasier and Hollywood Squares. Network revenues were lower due to the absence of revenues from the series Frasier which was no longer in production in 2005. Affiliate revenues at Showtime Networks increased 2% principally reflecting rate increases and growth in subscribers. For 2005, Television reported an operating loss of $4.79 billion, which included a non cash impairment charge of $6.44 billion to reduce the carrying value of goodwill. Television OIBDA before impairment charge decreased 8% to $1.82 billion in 2005 from $1.98 billion in 2004 reflecting the decrease in revenues noted above and higher SG&A expenses partially offset by lower operating expenses. Operating expenses, primarily comprised of production and programming expenses, decreased 1%, or $56.6 million, to $6.22 billion principally due to lower production costs for network series and the absence of prior year costs for the Super Bowl. SG&A expenses increased 8% to $1.28 billion primarily due to higher advertising and promotion and the inclusion of expenses for SportsLine.com, acquired in December 2004. Included in 2005 SG&A expenses is a severance charge of $11.3 million for organizational changes at Showtime Networks. Capital expenditures increased $78.7 million to $197.2 million in 2005 from $118.5 million in 2004, principally reflecting increased spending for broadcasting equipment. Radio (CBS Radio) (Contributed 14% of consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006, and 15% for each of the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004.) Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Revenues $ 1,959.9 $ 2,114.8 $ 2,096.1 OIBDA before impairment charges $ 820.0 $ 925.0 $ 948.2 Impairment charges (3,047.0 ) (10,941.8 ) Depreciation and amortization (32.6 ) (32.1 ) (29.9 ) Operating income (loss) $ 787.4 $ (2,154.1 ) $ (10,023.5 ) Operating income as a % of revenues 40 % NM NM Capital expenditures $ 43.2 $ 37.7 $ 38.2 NM Not meaningful 2006 vs. 2005 For 2006, Radio revenues decreased 7% to $1.96 billion from $2.11 billion in 2005, principally reflecting 8% lower advertising sales from decreases in both average unit rates and units sold, resulting from weakness in the overall radio advertising market as well as the impact of programming changes at 27 owned radio stations during 2006. Radio receives affiliation and other fees and consideration for management services provided to Westwood One, an affiliated company. Revenues from these arrangements were $59.1 million in 2006 and $63.4 million in 2005. II 17 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) For 2006, Radio reported operating income of $787.4 million versus an operating loss of $2.15 billion in 2005, which included a non cash impairment charge of $3.05 billion to reduce the carrying value of goodwill. Radio OIBDA before impairment charges decreased 11% to $820.0 million in 2006 from $925.0 million in 2005, reflecting the revenue decline noted above partially offset by lower expenses. Operating expenses, primarily comprised of radio programming and production expenses, decreased 5% to $472.8 million in 2006 from $498.9 million in 2005, principally reflecting lower programming costs, including sports programming. SG&A expenses decreased 3% to $667.1 million in 2006 from $690.9 million in 2005 primarily reflecting decreases in professional fees, sales commissions and bad debt expense partially offset by lower gains on disposition of assets in 2006 as compared to 2005. Included in total Radio expenses is stock based compensation of $10.7 million and $2.3 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. During 2006, the Company entered into agreements to sell 39 radio stations in ten of its smaller markets for a total of approximately $668 million in cash. In December 2006, the Company completed the sale of five radio stations in the Buffalo market to Regent Communications Inc. for $125.0 million, resulting in a pre tax gain of approximately $25 million included in "Other items, net" on the Consolidated Statement of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2006. As of February 15, 2007, the sales of an additional ten radio stations in the Kansas City, Columbus and Greensboro markets closed and the Company received $146.4 million. The remaining transactions are subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory and other approvals. 2005 vs. 2004 For 2005, Radio revenues increased 1% to $2.11 billion reflecting 2% growth in local radio advertising partially offset by a 1% decrease in national advertising. Advertising sales reflected an increase in average unit rates partially offset by a decline in the units sold. Advertising sales in the top 10 markets increased 3% and the top 20 markets increased 2%, led by increases in Los Angeles, Philadelphia and Atlanta. Revenues from arrangements with Westwood One were $63.4 million in 2005 and $65.9 million in 2004. For 2005, Radio reported an operating loss of $2.15 billion, compared with an operating loss of $10.02 billion in 2004, which included non cash impairment charges of $3.05 billion and $10.94 billion in 2005 and 2004, respectively, to reduce the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets. Radio OIBDA before impairment charge decreased 2% to $925.0 million in 2005 from $948.2 million in 2004 reflecting increases in operating and SG&A expenses, partially offset by the revenue increase noted above. Operating expenses increased 6% to $498.9 million in 2005 from $469.2 million in 2004 primarily due to increased talent costs, higher music licensing fees, and increased programming costs, including sports programming. SG&A expenses increased 2% to $690.9 million in 2005 from $678.7 million in 2004 primarily reflecting lower gains on disposition of assets in 2005 as compared to 2004 partially offset by lower bad debt expense in 2005. II 18 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Outdoor (CBS Outdoor) (Contributed 15% of consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006, 14% for the year ended December 31, 2005 and 13% for the year ended December 31, 2004.) Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Revenues $ 2,103.4 $ 1,949.3 $ 1,880.2 OIBDA before impairment charge $ 568.0 $ 469.9 $ 453.9 Impairment charge (7,055.3 ) Depreciation and amortization (216.2 ) (209.4 ) (223.1 ) Operating income (loss) $ 351.8 $ 260.5 $ (6,824.5 ) Operating income as a % of revenues 17% 13% NM Capital expenditures $ 115.7 $ 68.4 $ 56.5 NM Not meaningful 2006 vs. 2005 For 2006, Outdoor revenues increased 8% to $2.10 billion in 2006 from $1.95 billion in 2005 led by growth of 9% in North America and 4% in Europe. North America reflected growth of 9% in the U.S., with an increase of 11% in U.S. billboards, 8% growth in Canada and 14% growth in Mexico. Results in Europe were driven by a revenue increase of 10% in the U.K. The favorable net impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations on Outdoor revenues was approximately $18 million in 2006. Approximately 44% and 45% of Outdoor revenues were generated from international regions in 2006 and 2005, respectively. Outdoor operating income increased 35% to $351.8 million in 2006 from $260.5 million in 2005, and OIBDA increased 21% to $568.0 million in 2006 from $469.9 million in 2005, reflecting the revenue increase noted above partially offset by higher expenses. Operating expenses increased 3% to $1.17 billion in 2006 from $1.13 billion in 2005 primarily due to higher transit and billboard lease costs and the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange, partially offset by the absence of the impact of hurricanes in 2005. SG&A expenses increased 6% to $367.1 million in 2006 from $345.2 million in 2005 due to higher employee related expenses and the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange offset in part by lower professional fees and bad debt expense. Included in total Outdoor expenses is stock based compensation of $3.2 million and $.6 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. Operating income as a percentage of revenues was 17% and 13% in 2006 and 2005, respectively. 2005 vs. 2004 For 2005, Outdoor revenues increased 4% to $1.95 billion from $1.88 billion, principally due to a 6% increase in North America, reflecting an 18% increase in Mexico, a 16% increase in Canada and a 4% increase in U.S. billboards and displays. European revenues were flat year over year, primarily reflecting growth in the U.K. offset by a decline in Italy due to the loss of a component of the Italian transit contract in 2004. The impact of foreign exchange translation on revenues in 2005 was approximately $8 million in additional revenues, primarily in Canada. In constant dollars, Canadas revenues increased 8%. Approximately 45% of Outdoor revenues were generated from international regions, principally Europe, for both 2005 and 2004. II 19 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Operating income increased to $260.5 million in 2005 from a loss of $6.82 billion in 2004, which included a non cash impairment charge of $7.06 billion to reduce the carrying value of goodwill. Outdoor OIBDA before impairment charge increased 4% to $469.9 million in 2005 from $453.9 million in 2004, reflecting the revenue increases noted above partially offset by higher operating and SG&A expenses. Operating expenses increased 3% to $1.13 billion in 2005 from $1.10 billion in 2004, reflecting higher billboard lease costs and maintenance expenses, partially offset by lower transit lease costs. SG&A expenses increased 7% to $345.2 million in 2005 from $323.6 million in 2004 primarily reflecting higher employee related expenses. Revenues and operating income were negatively impacted by approximately $11 million and $28 million, respectively, in 2005 due to hurricanes. Publishing (Simon & Schuster) (Contributed 6% to consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006 and 5% for each of the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004.) Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Revenues $ 807.0 $ 763.6 $ 750.9 OIBDA $ 78.0 $ 74.6 $ 74.3 Depreciation and amortization (9.5 ) (8.6 ) (10.2 ) Operating income $ 68.5 $ 66.0 $ 64.1 Operating income as a % of revenues 8% 9% 9% Capital expenditures $ 5.8 $ 4.2 $ 4.6 2006 vs. 2005 For 2006, Publishing revenues increased 6% to $807.0 million in 2006 from $763.6 million in 2005 led by higher book sales, primarily in the Adult and International groups, as well as higher distribution fee income. Top selling titles in 2006 included YOU: On a Diet by Michael F. Roizen and Mehmet C. Oz, Liseys Story by Stephen King, and State of Denial by Bob Woodward. Publishing operating income increased 4% to $68.5 million in 2006 from $66.0 million in 2005 and OIBDA increased 5% to $78.0 million in 2006 from $74.6 million in 2005 reflecting the revenue increases noted above partially offset by higher expenses. Operating expenses increased 3% to $539.2 million in 2006 from $525.0 million in 2005 due to higher production, return and freight and delivery costs partially offset by lower royalty expenses. SG&A expenses increased 16% to $189.8 million in 2006 from $164.0 million in 2005 primarily resulting from an increase in bad debt expense and higher selling and marketing and employee related costs. Included in total Publishing expenses is stock based compensation of $1.9 million and $.5 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. Operating income as a percentage of revenues was 8% and 9% in 2006 and 2005, respectively. 2005 vs. 2004 For 2005, Publishing revenues increased 2% to $763.6 million in 2005 from $750.9 million in 2004, primarily due to several top selling 2005 titles including 1776 by David McCullough, Love Smart by Dr. Phil C. McGraw, and Teacher Man by Frank McCourt, as well as 5% growth in the Childrens group II 20 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) reflecting the performance of series titles, such as Dora the Explorer and Peanuts. Revenues from the Audio group increased 14% in 2005. For 2005, Publishing operating income increased 3% to $66.0 million in 2005 from $64.1 million in 2004 and OIBDA increased slightly to $74.6 million in 2005 from $74.3 million in 2004, primarily due to the revenue increases noted above, partially offset by higher operating and SG&A expenses. Operating expenses increased 1% to $525.0 million in 2005 due to higher production costs partially offset by lower royalty expenses. SG&A expenses increased 4% to $164.0 million primarily due to higher advertising, selling and marketing costs. Operating income as a percentage of revenues was 9% in 2005 and 2004. Financial Position Current assets increased by $1.35 billion to $8.14 billion at December 31, 2006 from $6.80 billion at December 31, 2005 primarily due to increases in cash and cash equivalents of $1.42 billion, receivables of $97.9 million and current assets of discontinued operations of $88.7 million. These increases were partially offset by decreases in other current assets of $75.9 million and deferred income tax assets of $161.2 million. The allowance for doubtful accounts as a percentage of receivables was 5.1% at December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005. Net property and equipment increased by $77.4 million to $2.81 billion at December 31, 2006 from $2.74 billion at December 31, 2005 reflecting capital expenditures of $394.1 million, acquisitions of $23.7 million and the impact of foreign exchange of $10.2 million partially offset by depreciation expense of $340.6 million and dispositions of $10.4 million. Goodwill of $18.82 billion increased $191.7 million from $18.63 million at December 31, 2005, primarily reflecting the acquisition of CSTV Networks in January 2006. Intangible assets, principally consisting of FCC licenses, and leasehold and franchise agreements, decreased by $89.2 million to $10.43 billion at December 31, 2006 from $10.51 billion at December 31, 2005, primarily due to amortization expense of $98.9 million. Other assets of discontinued operations decreased by $828.7 million to $85.6 million at December 31, 2006 from $914.3 million at December 31, 2005, primarily due to the sale of Paramount Parks, which was presented as a discontinued operation at December 31, 2005. Current liabilities decreased by $979.1 million to $4.40 billion at December 31, 2006 from $5.38 billion at December 31, 2005 primarily due to a decrease in the current portion of long term debt of $732.1 million from the repayment of debt, and a decrease in current liabilities of discontinued operations of $133.8 million due to the sale of Paramount Parks. Long term debt decreased by $125.9 million to $7.03 billion at December 31, 2006 from $7.15 billion at December 31, 2005 principally reflecting the repurchase of $102.2 million of senior notes. Deferred income tax liabilities of $2.31 billion increased $288.4 million from $2.02 billion at December 31, 2005, primarily due to the tax liability true up related to the 2005 federal tax return. II 21 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Cash Flows Cash and cash equivalents, including discontinued operations, increased by $1.42 billion for the year ended December 31, 2006. The change in cash and cash equivalents was as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Cash provided by operating activities from: Continuing operations $ 2,002.5 $ 1,822.3 $ 1,558.2 Discontinued operations (114.1 ) 1,714.7 2,082.4 Cash provided by operating activities 1,888.4 3,537.0 3,640.6 Cash provided by (used for) investing activities from: Continuing operations 849.5 4,981.5 (200.8 ) Discontinued operations (34.5 ) (213.7 ) (332.9 ) Cash provided by (used for) investing activities 815.0 4,767.8 (533.7 ) Cash used for financing activities from: Continuing operations (1,284.1 ) (7,151.8 ) (2,919.0 ) Discontinued operations (425.9 ) (110.4 ) Cash used for financing activities (1,284.1 ) (7,577.7 ) (3,029.4 ) Net increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 1,419.3 $ 727.1 $ 77.5 Operating Activities. In 2006, cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations increased $180.2 million, or 10%, to $2.00 billion from $1.82 billion in 2005 principally reflecting higher earnings after adjusting for non cash items, including the impairment charges and stock based compensation. These increases were partially offset by higher taxes paid in 2006 and lower cash inflows from net changes in operating assets and liabilities, principally reflecting $250 million of discretionary contributions made during 2006 to pre fund one of the Companys qualified pension plans. In 2005, cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations increased $264.1 million, or 17%, to $1.82 billion in 2005 from $1.56 billion in 2004 principally reflecting changes in working capital partially offset by higher taxes paid in 2005. Cash paid for income taxes from continuing operations of $562.2 million for 2006 was higher than 2005 payments of $493.4 million principally due to higher pre tax income and a decrease in the income tax benefit from stock option exercises, partially offset by increased tax refunds. Cash taxes for 2007 are anticipated to increase by approximately $250 million to $300 million principally driven by the absence of refunds received in 2006, additional tax payments in 2007 on the anticipated gain from the sale of certain radio stations and the absence of 2006 tax savings from $250 million of discretionary pension plan contributions. II 22   Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Investing Activities. In 2006, cash provided by investing activities from continuing operations of $849.5 million reflected proceeds from the sale of Paramount Parks of $1.24 billion in cash and proceeds from other dispositions of $142.5 million principally reflecting the sale of five radio stations in the Buffalo market. These proceeds were partially offset by capital expenditures of $394.1 million, investments in affiliated companies of $110.0 million, principally consisting of the Companys investment in The CW, and acquisitions of $97.9 million primarily consisting of the acquisition of CSTV Networks and outdoor advertising properties. In 2005, cash provided by investing activities from continuing operations of $4.98 billion reflected the $5.4 billion special dividend received from Viacom Inc. as well as proceeds from dispositions of $279.6 million, principally reflecting the sale of television and radio stations. These proceeds were partially offset by capital expenditures of $327.0 million and acquisitions of $462.9 million, primarily reflecting the acquisition of KOVR TV in Sacramento and KIFR FM, a San Francisco radio station. Capital expenditures increased $67.1 million, or 21%, to $394.1 million in 2006 from $327.0 million in 2005 principally reflecting spending for outdoor advertising structures, buildings and technical equipment. Capital expenditures increased $109.1 million, or 50%, to $327.0 million in 2005 from $217.9 million in 2004 principally reflecting additional broadcasting equipment and investments in infrastructures in preparation of the Separation on December 31, 2005. Net cash expenditures for investing activities from continuing operations of $200.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 principally reflected capital expenditures of $217.9 million primarily for investment in systems upgrades and building improvements. Capital expenditures for 2007 are anticipated to be in the range of $450 million to $475 million reflecting increases for outdoor advertising properties. Financing Activities. In 2006, cash flow used for financing activities from continuing operations of $1.28 billion principally reflected repayment of notes of $832.0 million and dividend payments of $519.1 million, partially offset by proceeds of $91.1 million from the exercise of stock options. In 2005, cash flow used for financing activities from continuing operations of $7.15 billion principally reflected the purchase of Company common stock for $5.56 billion, repayment of notes and debentures of $1.44 billion and dividend payments of $451.3 million. These uses were partially offset by proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options of $317.5 million. In 2004, cash flow used for financing activities from continuing operations of $2.92 billion principally reflected the purchase of Company common stock for $2.50 billion and dividend payments of $415.2 million, partially offset by the exercise of employee stock options of $119.6 million. Cash Dividends and Stock Purchase Program The Company declared a quarterly cash dividend on its Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock during each of the four quarters of 2006 for a total of $573.2 million. On February 27, 2007, the Company announced a 10% increase to its quarterly cash dividend from $.20 to $.22 per share. The dividend is payable on April 1, 2007 to stockholders of record as of March 7, 2007. Former Viacom declared a quarterly cash dividend on its common stock during each of the four quarters of 2005 and 2004 for a total of $440.9 million and $427.0 million, respectively. On February 27, 2007, the Company announced a stock purchase program under which the Company is authorized to purchase $1.5 billion of its Class B Common Stock. The Company expects to effect the buyback through an accelerated share repurchase program during March 2007. II 23 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) During 2006, the Company did not purchase any shares under its $8.0 billion stock purchase program which has remaining authorization of $579.8 million. In 2005, on a trade date basis, Former Viacom purchased 79.6 million shares of class B common stock for approximately $5.46 billion. In 2004, on a trade date basis, Former Viacom purchased 34.2 million shares of class B common stock for approximately $2.53 billion. Acquisitions and Dispositions On February 26, 2007, the Company completed the sale of its television station in New Orleans for $4.3 million. On February 7, 2007, the Company announced that it entered into an agreement to sell seven of its owned television stations in Austin, Salt Lake City, Providence and West Palm Beach to Cerberus Capital Management, L.P. for approximately $185 million. On February 13, 2007, the Company entered into an exchange agreement with Liberty Media Corporation to exchange the stock of a subsidiary of the Company which holds CBS Corp.s Green Bay television station and its satellite television station, and approximately $170 million in cash, subject to adjustment, for the 7.6 million shares of CBS Corp. Class B Common Stock held by Liberty Media Corporation. These transactions are subject to FCC approval and customary closing conditions. The Company recorded a pre tax impairment charge of $65.2 million in the fourth quarter of 2006 to reduce the carrying value of allocated goodwill for the television stations to be disposed. During 2006, the Company entered into agreements to sell 39 radio stations in ten of its smaller markets for a total of approximately $668 million in cash. In December 2006, the Company completed the sale of five radio stations in the Buffalo market to Regent Communications Inc. for $125.0 million, resulting in a pre tax gain of approximately $25 million included in "Other items, net" on the Consolidated Statement of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2006. As of February 15, 2007, the sales of an additional ten radio stations in the Kansas City, Columbus and Greensboro markets closed and the Company received $146.4 million. The remaining transactions are subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory and other approvals. On June 30, 2006, the Company completed the sale of Paramount Parks to Cedar Fair, L.P. for $1.24 billion in cash. On January 5, 2006, the Company completed the acquisition of CSTV Networks, a cable network and online digital sports media company, for a purchase price of approximately $325 million, comprised of 10.2 million shares of CBS Corp. Class B Common Stock and $52 million in cash. CSTV Networks results have been included as part of the Television segment since the date of acquisition. The excess purchase price over the fair value of the tangible and identifiable intangible net assets acquired was allocated to goodwill. During the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company acquired KIFR FM, a San Francisco radio station, for approximately $95 million. During the second quarter of 2005, the Company acquired KOVR TV, a Sacramento television station, for approximately $285 million. II 24 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Capital Structure At December 31, 2006 2005 Notes payable to banks $ 3.1 $ 7.2 Senior debt 4.625% 8.875% due 2006 2051 7,006.2 7,919.9 Other notes .8 1.0 Obligations under capital leases 115.2 125.4 Total debt 7,125.3 8,053.5 Less discontinued operations debt(a) 83.0 153.2 Total debt from continuing operations 7,042.3 7,900.3 Less current portion 15.0 747.1 Total long term debt from continuing operations, net of current portion $ 7,027.3 $ 7,153.2 (a)Included in "Liabilities of discontinued operations" on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Total debt of $7.13 billion at December 31, 2006 and $8.05 billion at December 31, 2005 was 23% and 27%, respectively, as a percentage of total capitalization of the Company. The senior debt of CBS Corp. is fully and unconditionally guaranteed by its wholly owned subsidiary CBS Operations Inc. Senior debt in the amount of $52.2 million of the Companys wholly owned subsidiary, CBS Broadcasting Inc., is not guaranteed. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Companys debt balances included (i) a net unamortized premium of $29.1 million and $31.8 million, respectively, and (ii) the decrease in the carrying value of the debt relating to fair value hedges of $17.5 million and $8.5 million, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, the following debt maturities and repurchases occurred: Debt Maturities January 30, 2006, 6.40% senior notes, $800.0 million June 1, 2005, 7.75% senior notes, $951.0 million May 20, 2005, 7.15% senior notes, $500.0 million Debt Repurchases During 2006, the Company repurchased $52.2 million of its 7.70% senior notes due 2010 and $50.0 million of its 6.625% senior notes due 2011, resulting in a loss on early extinguishment of debt of $6.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. For the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company repurchased approximately $21.2 million of its debt. II 25 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) The Companys scheduled maturities of long term debt at face value, including discontinued operations debt and excluding capital leases, at December 31, 2006 were as follows: 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 and thereafter Long term debt $ 700.8 $ .8 $ .8 $ 1,585.8 $ 950.1 $ 3,760.2 At December 31, 2006, the Company classified $699.4 million of senior notes maturing in 2007 as long term debt on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, reflecting its intent and ability to refinance this debt on a long term basis. Credit Facility As of December 31, 2006, the Company had a $3.0 billion revolving credit facility due December 2010 (the "Credit Facility"). The Company, at its option, may also borrow in certain foreign currencies up to specified limits under the Credit Facility. Borrowing rates under the facility are determined at the Companys option at the time of each borrowing and are based generally on the prime rate in the United States or the London Interbank Offer Rate ("LIBOR") plus a margin based on the Companys senior unsecured debt rating. The Company pays a facility fee based on the total amount of the commitments. As of December 31, 2006, the remaining availability under this Credit Facility, net of outstanding letters of credit, was $2.79 billion. The Credit Facility contains covenants, which, among other things, require that the Company maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio. At December 31, 2006, the Company was in compliance with all covenants under the Credit Facility. The primary purpose of the Credit Facility is to support commercial paper borrowings. At December 31, 2006, the Company had no commercial paper borrowings under its $3.0 billion commercial paper program. Accounts Receivable Securitization Programs As of December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, the Company had an aggregate of $550.0 million outstanding under revolving receivable securitization programs. The programs result in the sale of receivables on a non recourse basis to unrelated third parties on a one year renewable basis, thereby reducing accounts receivable on the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheets. The Company enters into these arrangements because they provide an additional source of liquidity. Proceeds from the programs were used to reduce outstanding borrowings. The terms of the revolving securitization arrangements require that the receivable pools subject to the programs meet certain performance ratios. As of December 31, 2006, the Company was in compliance with the required ratios under the receivable securitization programs. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company believes that its operating cash flows from continuing operations ($2.00 billion in 2006), cash and cash equivalents ($3.07 billion at December 31, 2006), borrowing capacity under committed bank facility (which consisted of an unused revolving Credit Facility of $2.79 billion at December 31, 2006), and access to capital markets are sufficient to fund its operating needs, including commitments and contingencies, capital and investing commitments, and dividend and other financing requirements for the foreseeable future. The funding for commitments to purchase sports programming rights, television and film programming, and talent contracts will come primarily from cash flow from operations. II 26 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) On February 27, 2007, the Company announced a stock purchase program under which the Company is authorized to purchase $1.5 billion of its Class B Common Stock. The Company expects to effect the buyback through an accelerated share repurchase program during March 2007. The Company continually projects anticipated cash requirements, which include capital expenditures, dividends, acquisitions and principal payments on its outstanding indebtedness, as well as cash flows generated from operating activities available to meet these needs. Any net cash funding requirements are financed with short term borrowings (primarily commercial paper) and long term debt. Commercial paper borrowings, which also accommodate day to day changes in funding requirements, are backed by the Credit Facility that may be utilized in the event that commercial paper borrowings are not available. The Companys credit position affords sufficient access to the capital markets to meet the Companys financing requirements. The Company anticipates that future debt maturities will be funded with cash and cash equivalents, and cash flows generated from operating activities and other debt financing. There are no provisions in any of the Companys material financing agreements that would cause an acceleration of the obligation in the event of a downgrade in the Companys debt ratings. The Company filed a shelf registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission registering debt securities, preferred stock and warrants of CBS Corp. that may be issued for aggregate gross proceeds of $5.0 billion. The registration statement was first declared effective on January 8, 2001. The net proceeds from the sale of the offered securities may be used by CBS Corp. for general corporate purposes, including repayment of borrowings, working capital and capital expenditures, or for such other purposes as may be specified in the applicable prospectus supplement. To date, the Company has issued $2.385 billion of securities under the shelf registration statement. As of December 31, 2006, the Companys significant contractual obligations, including payments due by period, were as follows: Payments Due by Period Total 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 and thereafter Programming and talent commitments (1) $ 13,607.3 $ 3,481.6 $ 5,028.3 $ 3,460.7 $ 1,636.7 Guaranteed minimum franchise payments (2) $ 2,951.2 $ 413.3 $ 745.2 $ 644.9 $ 1,147.8 Purchase obligations (3) $ 713.0 $ 185.1 $ 206.2 $ 182.4 $ 139.3 Operating leases (4) $ 2,092.0 $ 319.8 $ 508.0 $ 375.2 $ 889.0 Other long term contractual obligations (5) $ 943.1 $ .5 $ 684.6 $ 234.7 $ 23.3 Long term debt obligations (6) $ 6,998.5 $ 700.8 $ 1.6 $ 2,535.9 $ 3,760.2 Interest commitments on long term debt (7) $ 5,821.4 $ 460.3 $ 894.2 $ 681.8 $ 3,785.1 Capital lease obligations (including interest) (8) $ 151.6 $ 22.7 $ 34.5 $ 29.6 $ 64.8 (1)Programming and talent commitments of the Company include $8.83 billion for the acquisition of sports programming rights, $3.33 billion relating to television, radio, and film production and acquisitions and $961.6 million for talent contracts. (2)Outdoor has franchise rights entitling it to display advertising on media including billboards, transit shelters, buses, rail systems, mall kiosks and stadium signage. Under most of these franchise agreements, the franchisor is entitled to receive the greater of a percentage of the relevant advertising revenues, net of advertising agency fees, or a specified guaranteed minimum annual payment. (3)Purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including open purchase orders. (4)Includes long term noncancelable operating lease commitments for office space, equipment, transponders and studio facilities. (5)Long term contractual obligations including program liabilities, participations due to producers and residuals. (6)Long term debt obligations are presented at face value, including discontinued operations debt. (7)Future interest based on scheduled debt maturities, excluding capital leases. (8)Includes capital leases for satellite transponders. II 27   Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Voluntary Exchange Offer On June 1, 2006, the Company announced the completion of its Voluntary Exchange Offer ("VEO") which gave eligible employees the voluntary opportunity to tender their outstanding stock options to purchase shares of CBS Corp. Class B Common Stock in exchange for restricted shares (for eligible employees who are subject to United States income tax) or restricted share units ("RSUs") (for eligible employees who are not subject to United States income tax) of CBS Corp. Class B Common Stock having a value equal to 75% of the fair value attributed to the eligible options. For the restricted shares and RSUs issued in exchange for the fully vested options, no compensation expense was recorded. For the restricted shares and RSUs issued in exchange for unvested options, compensation expense was recorded based on the grant date fair value of the options over the remaining vesting period. Employees who participated in the VEO made separate tendering decisions with respect to all of their stock options awarded prior to January 1, 2006 that were out of the money (options with an exercise price equal to or greater than $24.9340) and all of those that were in the money (options with an exercise price less than $24.9340). Restricted shares and RSUs issued in connection with the VEO will vest in two equal annual installments on the second and third anniversaries of the date of grant, June 1, 2006, subject to forfeitures and other restrictions. As a result of the VEO, options to purchase 63.7 million shares of CBS Corp. Class B Common Stock were exchanged for 7.1 million restricted shares and .1 million RSUs. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In connection with the Separation, Viacom Inc. has agreed to indemnify the Company with respect to obligations related to Blockbuster Inc. ("Blockbuster"), including certain Blockbuster store leases; Famous Players theater leases; certain UCI theatre leases; and certain theatre leases related to W.F. Cinema Holdings L.P. and Graumans Theatres LLC. The Company has indemnification obligations with respect to letters of credit and surety bonds primarily used as security against non performance in the normal course of business. The outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds approximated $375.6 million at December 31, 2006 and are not recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2006. In the course of its business, the Company both provides and receives indemnities which are intended to allocate certain risks associated with business transactions. Similarly, the Company may remain contingently liable for various obligations of a business that has been divested in the event that a third party does not live up to its obligations under an indemnification obligation. The Company records a liability for its indemnification obligations and other contingent liabilities when probable under generally accepted accounting principles. Critical Accounting Policies Financial Reporting Release No. 60, "Cautionary Advice Regarding Disclosure About Critical Accounting Policies" ("FRR 60"), suggests companies provide additional disclosure and commentary on those accounting policies considered most critical. FRR 60 considers an accounting policy to be critical if it is important to the Companys financial condition and results of operations, and requires significant judgment and estimates on the part of management in its application. For a summary of the Companys significant accounting policies, including the critical accounting policies discussed below, see the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. II 28 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) The preparation of the Companys financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amount of expenses during the reporting period. On an ongoing basis, the Company evaluates its estimates, which are based on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. The result of these evaluations forms the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities and the reported amount of expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions. The following accounting policies require significant management judgments and estimates. The Company accounts for the production and distribution of television programming in accordance with Statement of Position 00 2 "Accounting by Producers or Distributors of Films" ("SOP 00 2"). SOP 00 2 requires managements judgment as it relates to the timing of the establishment of a secondary market for its television programming, and total estimated revenues to be earned and costs to be incurred throughout the life of each television program. These estimates are used to determine the amortization of capitalized television programming, expensing of participation costs, and any necessary net realizable value adjustments to capitalized television programming costs. For each television program, management bases these estimates on the performance of the television programming in the initial markets, the existence of future firm commitments to sell additional episodes of the program, and the past performance of similar television programs. These estimates are updated regularly based on information available as the television program progresses through its life cycle. Overestimating secondary market revenues or a failure to adjust for a downward change in the total estimated revenue could result in the understatement of the amortization of capitalized television programming costs, future net realizable value adjustments and impact the determination of participation expense. The Company accounts for its business acquisitions under the purchase method of accounting. The total cost of acquisitions is allocated to the underlying net assets, based on their respective estimated fair values. The excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the tangible and identifiable intangible net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed requires managements judgment and often involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions, including assumptions with respect to future cash inflows and outflows, discount rates, asset lives, and market multiples, among other items. In accordance with SFAS 142, the Company tests goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment during the fourth quarter of each year, and on an interim date should factors or indicators become apparent that would require an interim test. A significant downward revision in the present value of estimated future cash flows for a reporting unit or intangible assets could result in an impairment under SFAS 142 and a non cash charge would be required. Balance sheet reserves and liabilities related to legal issues, restructuring charges and discontinued businesses, including asbestos and environmental matters, require significant judgments and estimates by management. The Company continually evaluates these estimates based on changes in the relevant facts and circumstances and events that may impact estimates. While management believes that the current reserves for matters related to predecessor operations of the Company, including environmental and asbestos are adequate, there can be no assurance that circumstances will not change in future periods. II 29 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Pension benefit obligations and net periodic pension costs are calculated using many actuarial assumptions. Two key assumptions used in accounting for pension liabilities and expenses are the discount rate and expected rate of return on plan assets. The discount rate reflects the rate at which the pension benefit obligations could effectively be settled. The Company determined the discount rate by projecting the plans expected future benefit payments as defined for the projected benefit obligation. Those projected benefit payments are used to construct a high quality bond portfolio with interest and principal payments that provide the cash flows necessary to meet the projected benefit payments. The projected benefit payments are discounted by the weighted average yield of the bond portfolio. The expected return on plan assets assumption was derived using the current and expected asset allocation of the pension plan assets and considering historical as well as expected returns on various classes of plan assets. For 2006, the unrecognized actuarial losses decreased primarily due to an increase in the discount rate as well as higher than expected return from plan assets. For 2005, the unrecognized actuarial loss for pension increased principally as a result of change in mortality rate assumption and lower than expected returns from plan assets. A decrease in the discount rate or a decrease in the expected rate of return on plan assets would increase pension expense. The estimated impact of a 25 basis point change in the discount rate would be a change of approximately $15 million on 2007 pension expense and will change the projected benefit obligation by approximately $140 million. The estimated impact of a 25 basis point change in the expected rate of return on plan assets is a change of approximately $10 million in 2007 pension expense. The Company is subject to income taxes in both the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining the worldwide provision for income taxes. The Company is continually audited by U.S. federal and state as well as foreign tax authorities. While it is often difficult to predict the final outcome or the timing of resolution of any particular tax matter, the Company believes that its tax reserves at December 31, 2006 reflect the probable outcome of known contingencies. Upon adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109" ("FIN 48") on January 1, 2007, the Company will apply a more likely than not recognition threshold when determining whether a tax position will be sustained and a reserve recognized pursuant to the measurement provisions of FIN 48. An estimated effective tax rate for a year is applied to quarterly operating results. In the event there is a significant or unusual item recognized in the quarterly operating results, the tax attributable to that item is separately calculated and recorded in the same quarter. A number of years may elapse before a tax return containing tax matters, for which a reserve has been established, is audited and finally resolved. During 2006, the Company recognized $164.1 million of tax benefits related to the settlement of certain prior year income tax audits. On January 1, 2006, the Company adopted SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004) "Share Based Payment" ("SFAS 123R"). SFAS 123R requires companies to measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the grant date fair value of the award. That cost is recognized over the vesting period during which an employee is required to provide service in exchange for the award. The Company adopted SFAS 123R using the modified prospective application method and, accordingly, recognizes compensation cost for stock based compensation for all new or modified grants after the date of adoption. In addition, the Company recognizes the unvested portion of the grant date fair value of awards granted prior to the adoption based on the fair values previously calculated for disclosure purposes. The fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of grant using the Black Scholes option pricing model. The determination of the assumptions used in the Black Scholes model requires management to make significant judgments and estimates. The use of different assumptions and estimates in the Black Scholes option pricing model could have a material impact on II 30 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) the estimated fair value of option grants and the related expense. The risk free interest rate is based on a U.S. Treasury rate in effect on the date of grant with a term equal to the expected life. The expected term was determined based on historical employee exercise and post vesting termination behavior. The expected dividend yield for 2006 is based on the then current annual dividend. When calculating expected stock price volatility, the Company placed exclusive reliance on implied volatility due to the limited amount of trading history for CBS Corp. Class B Common Stock. In addition, given the existence of an actively traded market for CBS Corp. options, the Company was able to derive implied volatility using publicly traded options to purchase CBS Corp. Class B Common Stock that were trading near the grant date of the employee stock options at a similar exercise price and a remaining term of greater than one year. Although there is an active market for these publicly traded CBS Corp. options, the Company believes that due to their short trading history, the volatility of these options alone may not be indicative of expected volatility. As a result, the expected stock price volatility was determined using an average of the implied volatility of these options and the implied volatility of publicly traded options for entities with similar business characteristics within the Companys industry. Legal Matters Shareholder Derivative Lawsuits and Demands. Two shareholder derivative lawsuits, consolidated as In re Viacom Shareholders Derivative Litigation, were filed in July 2005 in New York State Supreme Court relating to executive compensation and alleged corporate waste. The actions name each member of Former Viacoms Board of Directors, Messrs. Tom Freston and Leslie Moonves (each of whom were executive officers of Former Viacom), and, as a nominal defendant, Former Viacom, alleging that the 2004 compensation of Messrs. Redstone, Freston and Moonves was excessive and unwarranted and challenging the independence of certain Former Viacom directors. Mr. Redstone is the Companys Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors and Founder and Mr. Moonves is the Companys President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Freston was formerly Viacom Inc.s President and Chief Executive Officer. Plaintiffs seek unspecified damages from the members of the Former Viacom Board of Directors for their alleged breach of fiduciary duties, disgorgement of the 2004 compensation paid to the above named officers of Former Viacom, equitable relief, and attorney fees and expenses. The Company moved to dismiss the complaints and oral argument was heard on February 16, 2006. On June 26, 2006, the court denied the Companys motion to dismiss. The Companys appeal from that decision was argued on January 5, 2007, and the Company is awaiting a decision. The trial court proceedings have been stayed pending the resolution of the Companys appeal. On January 23, 2007, a new shareholder derivative action was filed in New York Supreme Court, which contains allegations similar to those in the earlier actions. Any liabilities in this matter adverse to the Company and or Viacom Inc. will be shared equally between the Company and Viacom Inc. The Company believes that the plaintiffs positions in these actions are without merit and it intends to vigorously defend itself in the litigation. The Company has received shareholder demands seeking access to books and records of the Company relating to executive compensation paid to Sumner M. Redstone, Tom Freston and Leslie Moonves, accompanied by statements that such demands are in furtherance of an investigation of possible mismanagement, self dealing and corporate waste by directors and officers of Former Viacom. Another shareholder demand seeking access to books and records relates to the compensation of Sumner M. Redstone and Mel Karmazin (former Chief Operating Officer of Former Viacom). One of the demands also seeks access to books and records of the Company relating to Sumner M. Redstones acquisition of a controlling interest in Midway Games Inc. The Company intends to comply with all reasonable requests. Under the Separation Agreement between the Company and Viacom Inc., liabilities in connection with executive compensation claims relating to officers of Former Viacom are shared equally by the Company and Viacom Inc. II 31 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Claims Related to Former Businesses: Asbestos, Environmental and Other. The Company is a defendant in lawsuits claiming various personal injuries related to asbestos and other materials, which allegedly occurred principally as a result of exposure caused by various products manufactured by Westinghouse, a predecessor, generally prior to the early 1970s. Westinghouse was neither a producer nor a manufacturer of asbestos. The Company is typically named as one of a large number of defendants in both state and federal cases. In the majority of asbestos lawsuits, the plaintiffs have not identified which of the Companys products is the basis of a claim. Claims against the Company in which a product has been identified principally relate to exposures allegedly caused by asbestos containing insulating material in turbines sold for power generation, industrial and marine use, or by asbestos containing grades of decorative micarta, a laminate used in commercial ships. Claims are frequently filed and or settled in large groups, which may make the amount and timing of settlements, and the number of pending claims, subject to significant fluctuation from period to period. The Company does not report as pending those claims on inactive, stayed, deferred or similar dockets which some jurisdictions have established for claimants who allege minimal or no impairment. As of December 31, 2006, the Company had pending approximately 73,310 asbestos claims, as compared with approximately 101,170 as of December 31, 2005 and approximately 112,140 as of December 31, 2004. Of the claims pending as of December 31, 2006, approximately 49,630 were pending in state courts, 21,020 in federal courts and, additionally, approximately 2,660 were third party claims pending in state courts. During 2006, the Company received approximately 6,470 new claims and closed or moved to an inactive docket approximately 34,330 claims. The Company reports claims as closed when it becomes aware that a dismissal order has been entered by a court or when the Company has reached agreement with the claimants on the material terms of a settlement. Settlement costs depend on the seriousness of the injuries that form the basis of the claim, the quality of evidence supporting the claims and other factors. To date, the Company has not been liable for any third party claims. The Companys total costs for the years 2006 and 2005 for settlement and defense of asbestos claims after insurance recoveries and net of tax benefits were approximately $5.7 million and $37.2 million, respectively. The Companys costs for settlement and defense of asbestos claims may vary year to year as insurance proceeds are not always recovered in the same period as the insured portion of the expenses. Filings include claims for individuals suffering from mesothelioma, a rare cancer, the risk of which is allegedly increased primarily by exposure to asbestos; lung cancer, a cancer which may be caused by various factors, one of which is alleged to be asbestos exposure; other cancers, and conditions that are substantially less serious, including claims brought on behalf of individuals who are asymptomatic as to an allegedly asbestos related disease. Claims identified as cancer remain a small percentage of asbestos claims pending at December 31, 2006. In a substantial number of the pending claims, the plaintiff has not yet identified the claimed injury. The Company believes that its reserves and insurance are adequate to cover its asbestos liabilities. The Company from time to time receives claims from federal and state environmental regulatory agencies and other entities asserting that it is or may be liable for environmental cleanup costs and related damages principally relating to historical and predecessor operations of the Company. In addition, the Company from time to time receives personal injury claims including toxic tort and product liability claims (other than asbestos) arising from historical operations of the Company and its predecessors. Payola. The Attorney General of the State of New York has been conducting an investigation of record companies, radio stations and independent record promoters relating to the promotion and selection of music on radio stations, principally to determine whether radio stations have received II 32 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) undisclosed payments which were tied to their decisions as to what songs to play, a practice commonly referred to as "payola." The Attorney General has entered into a settlement agreement with CBS Radio pursuant to which CBS did not admit to any violation of any law or regulation but agreed to implement certain business reforms. CBS Radio also agreed to make a $2.0 million payment to Rockefeller Philanthropy Advisors in connection with the settlement. The Attorney General has also entered into settlements with the major record labels and with one other major radio company. The FCC, based on information provided to it by the Attorney General, has also initiated a "payola" investigation and CBS Radio is in the process of providing further information which the FCC has requested pursuant to a Letter of Inquiry. Indecency Regulation. On March 15, 2006, the FCC released certain decisions relating to indecency complaints against certain of the Companys owned television stations and affiliated stations. The FCC ruled in the Super Bowl proceeding and ordered the Company to pay a forfeiture of $550,000. On May 31, 2006, the FCC denied the Companys petition for reconsideration. On July 28, 2006, the Company filed a Petition for Review of the forfeiture and denial of reconsideration with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit and paid the $550,000 forfeiture under protest so that the Company could bring an appeal. The Company has appealed the Super Bowl decision in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. On March 15, 2006, the FCC also notified certain of the Companys television stations and certain affiliates of the CBS Network of apparent liability for forfeitures relating to a broadcast of the program Without a Trace. The FCC proposed to assess a forfeiture of $32,500 against each of these stations, totaling $260,000 for the Companys owned stations. The Company is contesting the FCC decision and the proposed forfeitures. Also, on March 15, 2006, as part of an omnibus indecency order, the FCC ruled that a broadcast of The Early Show was indecent, but declined to issue forfeiture. That decision and others are the subject of a petition for review filed in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit by the Company, as well as the other broadcast networks and their affiliate associations. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit remanded the matter to the FCC and, on November 6, 2006, the FCC issued a decision reversing the part of its decision that found The Early Show broadcast to be indecent. However, the FCC affirmed its findings that the fleeting and isolated utterances broadcast on another broadcast network are indecent and the case continues to be litigated by the parties. The parties are awaiting a decision. Additionally, the Company, from time to time, has received and may receive in the future letters of inquiry from the FCC prompted by complaints alleging that certain programming on the Companys broadcasting stations included indecent material. In a separate matter, a new law increased the maximum forfeiture for a single indecency violation to $325,000, with a maximum forfeiture exposure of $3,000,000 for any continuing violation arising from a single act or failure to act, which amounts will be effective when the FCC issues implementing regulations. On an ongoing basis, the Company defends itself in a multitude of lawsuits and proceedings and responds to various investigations and inquiries from federal, state and local authorities (collectively, "litigation"). Litigation is inherently uncertain and always difficult to predict. However, based on its understanding and evaluation of the relevant facts and circumstances, the Company believes that the above described legal matters and other litigation to which it is a party are not likely, in the aggregate, to have a material adverse effect on its results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Under the Separation Agreement between the Company and Viacom Inc., Viacom Inc. has agreed to defend and indemnify the Company in certain litigation in which the Company is named. II 33 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Market Risk The Company is exposed to market risk related to foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. The Company uses derivative financial instruments to modify its exposure to market risks from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. In accordance with its policy, the Company does not use derivative instruments unless there is an underlying exposure and, therefore, the Company does not hold or enter into financial instruments for speculative trading purposes. Foreign Exchange Risk The Company conducts business with companies in various countries outside the United States, resulting in exposure to movements in foreign exchange rates when translating from the foreign local currency to the U.S. dollar. In order to hedge anticipated cash flows and foreign currency balances in such currencies as the British Pound, the Euro, the Canadian Dollar, the Mexican Peso and the Australian Dollar, foreign currency forward and option contracts are used. Additionally, the Company designates forward contracts used to hedge future production costs as cash flow hedges, and may designate certain forward contracts as a hedge of the foreign currency exposure of a net investment in a foreign operation. The change in fair value of the non designated contracts is included in current period results as part of "Other items, net." The Company manages the use of foreign exchange derivatives centrally. At December 31, 2006, the notional value of all foreign exchange contracts was $225.9 million, of which $16.8 million relates to the hedging of future production costs. The remaining $209.1 million represents hedges of underlying foreign currency balances and expected foreign currency cash flows. At December 31, 2005, the notional value of all foreign exchange contracts was $221.4 million, which represented hedges of underlying foreign currency balances and expected foreign currency cash flows. Interest Rate Risk All of the Companys long term debt has been issued under fixed interest rate agreements. The Company has entered into fixed to floating rate swap agreements for a portion of this debt, which are designated as fair value hedges. These swaps expose the Company to movements in short term interest rates. Based on the amount of fixed to floating rate swaps and receivable securitization programs outstanding at December 31, 2006, a 100 basis point change in interest rates would cause a $11.0 million change to pre tax earnings. As of December 31, 2006, if all parties were to agree, the swaps could have been terminated by a net payment from the Company of approximately $18.0 million, including accrued interest. At December 31, 2006, the Company was a party to the following outstanding fair value hedges: Interest rate swaps totaling $700 million in notional amount, which mature on May 1, 2007. Interest rate swaps totaling $300 million in notional amount, which mature on May 15, 2018. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company did not have any interest rate cash flow hedges outstanding. Credit Risk The Company continually monitors its positions with, and credit quality of, the financial institutions which are counterparties to its financial instruments. The Company is exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties to the agreements. However, the Company does not anticipate nonperformance by the counterparties. II 34 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) The Companys receivables do not represent significant concentrations of credit risk at December 31, 2006 or 2005, due to the wide variety of customers, markets and geographic areas to which the Companys products and services are sold. Related Parties National Amusements, Inc. National Amusements, Inc. ("NAI") is the controlling stockholder of CBS Corp. Mr. Sumner M. Redstone, the controlling stockholder, chairman of the board of directors and chief executive officer of NAI, serves as the Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors for both CBS Corp. and Viacom Inc. At December 31, 2006, NAI beneficially owned CBS Corp.s Class A Common Stock, representing approximately 76% of the voting power of all classes of CBS Corp.s Common Stock, and approximately 11% of the CBS Corp.s Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock on a combined basis. On October 28, 2004, Former Viacom entered into an agreement (the "NAIRI Agreement") with NAI and NAIRI, Inc. ("NAIRI"), a wholly owned subsidiary of NAI, pursuant to which Former Viacom agreed to buy, and NAI and NAIRI agreed to sell, a number of shares of Class B Common Stock each month such that the ownership percentage of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock (considered as a single class) held by NAI and or NAIRI would not increase as a result of purchases of shares of Former Viacom common stock under its $8.0 billion stock purchase program announced in October 2004. Pursuant to this agreement, Former Viacom purchased 9.2 million shares of Former Viacom class B common stock from NAIRI for $628.9 million in 2005. All Former Viacom share and per share data have been adjusted to reflect the Share Conversion. The Company did not make any purchases under this stock purchase program during 2006. Viacom Inc. In accordance with the terms of the Separation Agreement, Viacom Inc. paid to the Company an estimated special dividend of $5.4 billion in December 2005. Pursuant to the provisions of the Separation Agreement, the estimated special dividend is subject to adjustment. During 2006, Viacom Inc. paid to the Company the net undisputed adjustment to the special dividend of $172 million plus net interest of $3.1 million. In January 2007, CBS Corp. and Viacom Inc. resolved the remaining disputed items with respect to the special dividend and Viacom Inc. paid to the Company an additional $170 million, resulting in an aggregate adjustment to the special dividend of $342 million. CBS Corp., through its normal course of business, is involved in transactions with companies owned by or affiliated with Viacom Inc. CBS Corp., through its Television segment, licenses its television products to Viacom Inc., primarily MTV Networks and BET. In addition, CBS Corp. recognizes advertising revenues for media spending placed by various subsidiaries of Viacom Inc., primarily Paramount Pictures. Paramount Pictures also distributes certain of the Companys television products in the home entertainment market. Simon & Schuster is also involved in transactions with Viacom Inc. that have not been material in any of the periods presented. CBS Corp.s total revenues from these transactions were $222.8 million, $173.6 million and $378.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. CBS Corp., through Showtime Networks and CBS Television, purchases motion picture programming from Viacom Inc., primarily Paramount Pictures. The costs of these purchases are initially recorded as programming inventory and amortized over the life of the contract or projected useful life of the programming. In addition, CBS Corp. places advertisements with various subsidiaries of Viacom Inc. The total purchases from these transactions were $198.7 million, $153.1 million and $155.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. II 35 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) The following table presents the amounts due from or due to Viacom Inc. in the normal course of business as reflected on CBS Corp.s Consolidated Balance Sheets: At December 31, 2006 2005 Amounts due from Viacom Inc. Receivables $ 187.2 $ 235.8 Other assets (Receivables, non current) 260.7 225.2 Total amounts due from Viacom Inc. $ 447.9 $ 461.0 Amounts due to Viacom Inc. Accounts payable $ 5.2 $ 3.3 Program rights 56.1 64.7 Other liabilities (Program rights, non current) 10.7 41.2 Total amounts due to Viacom Inc. $ 72.0 $ 109.2 Other Related Parties The Company owned approximately 19% of Westwood One as of December 31, 2006, which is accounted for by the Company as an equity investment. Two members of Westwood Ones current board of directors are officers of CBS Radio. CBS Radio receives compensation for providing management services to Westwood One pursuant to a Management Agreement, including the services of a chief executive officer who is an employee of CBS Radio. Westwood One and CBS Radio also are parties to a Representation Agreement (including a related News Programming Agreement, Trademark License Agreement and Technical Services Agreement) pursuant to which Westwood One operates the CBS Radio Networks and CBS Radio is paid an annual fee. The Management Agreement and Representation Agreement expire on March 31, 2009. Certain of the Companys radio stations and Westwood One have affiliation agreements pursuant to which such radio stations air programs and or commercials supplied by Westwood One and, in return, the stations receive affiliation fees and certain programming cost reimbursements. CBS Television also has arrangements with Westwood One relating to the provision of news and sports programming to Westwood One. Revenues from all of these arrangements were approximately $75.6 million, $81.3 million and $82.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The Company, through the normal course of business, is involved in transactions with other affiliated companies that have not been material in any of the periods presented. Adoption of New Accounting Standards Effective December 31, 2006, the Company adopted SFAS No. 158 "Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)" ("SFAS 158"), effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2006. SFAS 158 requires the balance sheet recognition of the overfunded or underfunded status of each defined benefit pension plan and other postretirement benefit plan as an asset or a liability along with a corresponding after tax adjustment to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) included in stockholders equity. The incremental effect of the adoption was a decrease of $51.1 million to stockholders equity. In September 2006, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff Accounting Bulletin ("SAB") No. 108 ("SAB 108"), effective for fiscal years ending after November 15, 2006. SAB 108 provides interpretive guidance on how the effects of the carryover or reversal of prior year misstatements should be considered in quantifying a current year misstatement for the purpose of a materiality assessment. The II 36 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) adoption of SAB 108 as of December 31, 2006, had no effect on the Companys consolidated financial statements. Recent Pronouncements In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, "Fair Value Measurements" ("SFAS 157"), effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007 and interim periods within those fiscal years. SFAS 157 establishes a framework for measuring fair value under generally accepted accounting principles and expands disclosures about fair value measurement. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of SFAS 157 on the consolidated financial statements. In June 2006, the FASB issued FIN 48, effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in a companys financial statements in accordance with SFAS No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes." FIN 48 prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. Effective January 1, 2007, the cumulative effect of applying the provisions of FIN 48 will be reported as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings. The Company does not expect the adoption of FIN 48 to have a material effect on the Companys consolidated financial statements. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. Response to this is included in "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition Market Risk." II 37  
 
