Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition," and the documents incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10 K, contain both historical and forward looking statements. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward looking statements within the meaning of section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward looking statements are not based on historical facts, but rather reflect the Companys current expectations concerning future results and events. These forward looking statements generally can be identified by the use of statements that include phrases such as "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "plan," "foresee," "likely," "will" or other similar words or phrases. Similarly, statements that describe the Companys objectives, plans or goals are or may be forward looking statements. These forward looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that are difficult to predict and which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the Company to be different from any future results, performance and achievements expressed or implied by these statements. More information about these risks, uncertainties and other factors is set forth below. There may be additional risks, uncertainties and factors that the Company does not currently view as material or that are not necessarily known. The forward looking statements included in this document are only made as of the date of this document and the Company does not have any obligation to publicly update any forward looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances. RISK FACTORS For an enterprise as large and complex as the Company, a wide range of factors could affect our business and financial results. The factors described below are considered to be the most significant. There may be other currently unknown or unpredictable economic, business, competitive, regulatory or other factors that could have material adverse effects on the Companys future results. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. A Decline in Advertising Expenditures Could Cause the Companys Revenues and Operating Results to Decline Significantly in Any Given Period or in Specific Markets The Company derives substantial revenues from the sale of advertising on its broadcast and basic cable networks, television stations, radio stations, outdoor media and syndicated programming. A decline in the economic prospects of advertisers, the economy in general or the economy of any individual geographic market, particularly a major market such as Los Angeles, New York or Chicago, in which the Company owns and operates sizeable businesses, could alter current or prospective advertisers spending priorities. Disasters, acts of terrorism, political uncertainty or hostilities could lead to a reduction in advertising expenditures as a result of uninterrupted news coverage and economic uncertainty. Advertising expenditures may also be affected by increasing competition for the leisure time of audiences. In addition, advertising expenditures by companies in certain sectors of the economy, including the automotive, financial and pharmaceutical segments, represent a significant portion of the Companys advertising revenues. Any political, economic, social or technological change resulting in a reduction in these sectors advertising expenditures may adversely affect the Companys revenue. Advertisers willingness to purchase advertising from the Company may also be affected by a decline in audience ratings for the Companys programming, the inability of the Company to retain the rights to popular programming, increasing audience fragmentation caused by the proliferation of new media formats, including cable networks, the Internet and video on demand and the deployment of portable digital devices which allow consumers to time shift programming and skip or fast forward through advertisements. The Companys revenues from outdoor advertising also depend on the Companys continued ability to obtain the right to use effective outdoor advertising space. Any reduction in advertising expenditures could have an adverse effect on the Companys revenues and results of operations. I 23 The Companys Success Is Dependent upon Audience Acceptance of Its Content, Particularly Its Television and Radio Programs, Which Is Difficult to Predict Television and radio content production and distribution are inherently risky businesses because the revenues derived from the production and distribution of a television or radio program, and the licensing of rights to the intellectual property associated with the program, depend primarily upon their acceptance by the public, which is difficult to predict. The commercial success of a television or radio program also depends upon the quality and acceptance of other competing programs released into the marketplace at or near the same time, the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, general economic conditions and other tangible and intangible factors, all of which are difficult to predict. Rating points are also factors that are weighed when determining the advertising rates that the Company receives. The use of new ratings technologies and measurements could have an impact on the Companys program ratings. Poor ratings can lead to a reduction in pricing and advertising spending. For example, there can be no assurance that any replacement programming on the Companys radio or television stations will generate the same level of revenues or profitability of previous programming. In addition, the success of the Companys cable networks and Simon & Schuster is similarly dependent on audience acceptance of its programming and publications, respectively. Consequently, low public acceptance of the Companys content, particularly its television and radio programs, will have an adverse effect on the Companys results of operations. Failure by the Company to Obtain, Create and Retain the Rights in Popular Programming Could Adversely Affect the Companys Revenues Operating results from the Companys programming businesses fluctuate primarily with the acceptance of such programming by the public, which is difficult to predict. The Companys revenue from its television and radio business is therefore partially dependent on the Companys continued ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in consumer tastes and behavior on a timely basis. Moreover, the Company derives a portion of its revenues from the exploitation of its extensive library of television programming. Generally, a television series must have a network run of at least three or four years to be successfully sold in domestic syndication. If the content of its television programming library ceases to be widely accepted by audiences or is not continuously replenished with popular content, the Companys revenues could be adversely affected. The Company obtains a significant portion of its popular programming from third parties. For example, some of CBS Television Networks most widely viewed broadcasts, including certain NCAA championships, golfs Masters Tournament and PGA Championship, and NFL games, are made available based upon programming rights of varying duration that the Company has negotiated with third parties. In addition, Showtime Networks enters into commitments to acquire rights to certain programming for Showtime, The Movie Channel and FLIX from motion picture producers and other suppliers for varying durations, and CBS Radio acquires the broadcast rights to syndicated shows and to various programs, such as sports events from third parties. Competition for popular programming that is licensed from third parties is intense, and the Company may be outbid by its competitors for the rights to new, popular programming or in connection with the renewal of popular programming currently licensed by the Company. The Companys failure to obtain or retain rights to popular content could adversely affect the Companys revenues. Any Decrease in Popularity of the Programming for Which the Company Has Incurred Significant Commitments Could Have an Adverse Effect on Its Profitability Programming and talent commitments of the Company, estimated to aggregate approximately $11.41 billion as of December 31, 2007, primarily included $7.47 billion for sports programming rights, $2.47 billion relating to television, radio and film production and licensing and $973.2 million for talent contracts, with $771.5 million of these amounts payable in and after 2013. A shortfall, now or in the future, in the expected popularity of the sports events for which the Company has acquired rights, or in the television and radio programming the Company expects to air, could lead to decreased profitability or losses for a significant period of time. I 24 The Companys Operating Results Are Subject to Seasonal Variations The Companys business has experienced and is expected to continue to experience seasonality due to, among other things, seasonal advertising patterns and seasonal influences on peoples viewing, reading and listening habits. Typically, the Companys revenue from advertising increases in the fourth quarter and Simon & Schuster generates a substantial portion of its revenues in the fourth quarter. In addition, advertising revenues in even numbered years benefit from advertising placed by candidates for political offices. The effects of such seasonality make it difficult to estimate future operating results based on the previous results of any specific quarter and may adversely affect operating results. The Companys Businesses Operate in Highly Competitive Industries The Company competes with other media companies for high quality content and attractive outdoor advertising space to achieve large audiences and to generate advertising revenue. The Company also competes for distribution on various cable, DTH satellite and other platforms. The Companys ability to attract viewers and advertisers and obtain favorable distribution depends in part on its ability to provide popular television, syndicated programming and radio programming and books, as well as well placed outdoor advertising faces. In addition, the consolidation of advertising agencies, distributors and television service providers has made competition for viewers, advertising revenue, and distribution more intense. In addition, consolidation among book retailers and the growth of on line sales have resulted in increased competition for limited physical shelf space for the Companys publications and for the attention of consumers on line. Competition for viewers and advertising comes from: broadcast television stations and networks; cable television systems and networks; the Internet; terrestrial and satellite radio and portable digital audio players; outdoor advertisers; local, regional and national newspapers; direct mail; and other communications and advertising media that operate in these markets. Other television and radio stations or cable networks may change their formats or programming, a new station or new network may adopt a format to compete directly with the Companys stations or networks, or stations or networks might engage in aggressive promotional campaigns. This competition could result in lower ratings and advertising and subscription revenues or increased promotional and other expenses and, consequently, lower earnings and cash flow for the Company. The Company cannot be assured that it will be able to compete successfully in the future against existing or potential competitors, or that competition will not have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition or results of operations. The Company Must Respond to Rapid Changes in Technology, Content Creation, Services and Standards in Order to Remain Competitive Video, telecommunications, radio and data services technologies used in the entertainment industry are changing rapidly. Advances in technologies or alternative methods of product delivery or storage, or certain changes in consumer behavior driven by these or other technologies and methods of delivery and storage, could have a negative effect on the Companys businesses. Examples of such advances in technologies include video on demand, satellite radio, new video and electronic book formats, user generated content sites, Internet and mobile distribution of video content, streaming and downloading from the Internet and digital outdoor displays. For example, devices that allow users to view or listen to television or radio programs on a time delayed basis and technologies that enable users to fast forward or skip advertisements, such as DVRs and portable digital devices, may cause changes in consumer behavior that could affect the attractiveness of the Companys offerings to advertisers and could therefore adversely affect its revenues. Also, the growing acceptance of user generated content sites may adversely impact the Companys businesses. In addition, further increases in the use of portable digital devices which allow users to view or listen to content of their own choosing, in their own time, while avoiding traditional commercial advertisements, could adversely affect the Companys radio and television broadcasting advertising and subscription revenues. Cable providers and DTH satellite operators are developing new techniques that allow them to transmit more channels on their existing equipment to highly targeted audiences, reducing the cost of creating channels and potentially leading to the division of the television marketplace into more specialized niche audiences. More television options increase competition for viewers and competitors targeting programming to narrowly defined audiences may gain I 25 an advantage over the Company for television advertising and subscription revenues. The ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in technology on a timely basis and exploit new sources of revenue from these changes will affect the Companys ability to continue to grow and increase its revenue. Increased Programming and Content Costs May Adversely Affect the Companys Profits The Company produces and acquires programming and content and incurs costs for all types of creative talent, including actors, authors, writers and producers. An increase in the costs of such programming and content or in the costs for creative talent may lead to decreased profitability. Piracy of the Companys Programming and Other Content, Including Digital and Internet Piracy, May Decrease Revenue Received from the Exploitation of the Companys Programming and Other Content and Adversely Affect Its Businesses and Profitability Piracy of programming is prevalent in many parts of the world and is made easier by technological advances allowing conversion of programming and other content into digital formats, which facilitates the creation, transmission and sharing of high quality unauthorized copies of the Companys content. The proliferation of unauthorized copies and piracy of these products has an adverse effect on the Companys businesses and profitability because these products reduce the revenue that the Company potentially could receive from the legitimate sale and distribution of its products and services. In addition, if piracy were to increase, it would have an adverse effect on the Companys businesses and profitability. Changes in U.S. Communications Laws or Other Regulations May Have an Adverse Effect on the Companys Business The television and radio broadcasting and distribution industries in the U.S. are highly regulated by U.S. federal laws and regulations issued and administered by various federal agencies, including the FCC. The television and radio broadcasting industry is subject to extensive regulation by the FCC under the Communications Act. For example, the Company is required to obtain licenses from the FCC to operate its radio and television stations. The Company cannot be assured that the FCC will approve its future renewal applications or that the renewals will be for full terms or will not include conditions or qualifications. The non renewal, or renewal with substantial conditions or modifications, of one or more of the Companys licenses could have a material adverse effect on the Companys revenues. The Company must also comply with extensive FCC regulations and policies in the ownership and operation of its television and radio stations and its television networks. FCC regulations prohibit the ownership of more than one of the top four networks, ABC, CBS, FOX and NBC, and limit the number of television and radio stations that a licensee can own in a market and the number of television stations that can be owned nationwide, which could restrict the Companys ability to consummate future transactions and in certain circumstances could require it to divest some television or radio stations. As part of the nationwide transition from analog to digital broadcasting, the Companys full power television stations are required to transmit a digital signal 100% of the time they are transmitting an analog signal. This requirement increases the Companys operating costs. At the end of the analog to digital period, which is scheduled to occur in February 2009, these television stations will be required to cease analog transmissions. The Company is unable to predict the extent to which consumers will acquire digital television receivers or digital conversion devices for analog television receivers and the effect of the cessation of analog broadcasting on viewership. In addition, the Company is unable to predict the extent or timing of consumer demand for digital television services and the resulting impact on the Companys viewership. The U.S. Congress and the FCC currently have under consideration, and may in the future adopt, new laws, regulations, and policies regarding a wide variety of matters that could, directly or indirectly, affect the operation and ownership of the Companys radio and television properties. For example, from time to time, proposals have been advanced in the U.S. Congress and at the FCC to require radio and television broadcast stations to provide advertising time to political candidates for free or at a reduced charge. Any restrictions on political advertising may adversely affect the Companys advertising revenues. Changes to the media ownership and other FCC rules may affect the competitive landscape in ways that could increase the competition faced by the Company. Proposals have also been advanced from time to time before the U.S. Congress and the FCC to extend the program access rules (currently applicable only to those cable I 26 program services which also own or are owned by cable distribution systems) to all cable program services. The Companys ability to obtain the most favorable terms available for its content could be adversely affected should such an extension be enacted into law. In addition, changes in international laws may have an adverse impact on the Companys international businesses. The Company is unable to predict the effect that any such laws, regulations or policies may have on its operations. Vigorous Enforcement or Enhancement of FCC Indecency and Other Program Content Rules Against the Broadcast and Cable Industries Could Have an Adverse Effect on the Companys Businesses and Results of Operations The FCCs rules prohibit the broadcast of obscene material at any time and indecent or profane material on television or radio broadcast stations between the hours of 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. Broadcasters risk violating the prohibition against broadcasting indecent material because of the vagueness of the FCCs indecency/profanity definition, coupled with the spontaneity of live programming. The FCC vigorously enforces its indecency rules against the broadcasting industry. The FCC has stepped up its enforcement activities as they apply to indecency, and has threatened to initiate license revocation proceedings against broadcast licensees for "serious" indecency violations. The FCC has found on a number of occasions that the content of radio and television broadcasts has contained indecent material. In such instances, the FCC issued fines or advisory warnings to the offending licensees. Moreover, the FCC has in some instances imposed separate fines for each allegedly indecent "utterance," in contrast with its previous policy, which generally considered all indecent words or phrases within a given program as constituting a single violation. In addition, pursuant to legislation enacted by the U.S. Congress, in July 2007, the FCC increased the fines for broadcasting indecent material to a maximum of $325,000 per utterance. If the FCC denied a license renewal or revoked the license for one of the Companys broadcast radio or television stations, the Company would lose its authority to operate the station. The determination of whether content is indecent is inherently subjective and, as such, it can be difficult to predict whether particular content could violate indecency standards. The difficulty in predicting whether individual programs, words or phrases may violate the FCCs indecency rules adds significant uncertainty to the Companys ability to comply with the rules. Violation of the indecency rules could lead to sanctions which may adversely affect the Companys businesses and results of operations. Some policymakers support the extension of the indecency rules that are applicable to over the air broadcasters to cover cable and satellite programming and or attempts to increase enforcement of or otherwise expand existing laws and rules. If such an extension, attempt to increase enforcement or other expansion took place and were found to be constitutional, some of the Companys cable content could be subject to additional regulation and might not be able to attract the same subscription and viewership levels. The Loss of Affiliation Agreements or Retransmission Agreements Could Materially Adversely Affect the Companys Results of Operations The CBS Television Network provides its affiliates with up to 98 hours of programming per week. In return, the CBS Television Networks affiliated stations broadcast network inserted commercials during that programming. Loss of network affiliation agreements of the CBS Television Network could adversely affect the Companys results of operations by reducing the reach of the Companys programming and therefore its attractiveness to advertisers, and renewal on less favorable terms may also adversely affect the Companys results of operations. The non renewal or termination of retransmission agreements with distributors such as Comcast Corporation, Time Warner Cable Inc., DIRECTV Holdings LLC, or EchoStar Communications Corporation or continued distribution on less favorable terms, could also adversely affect the Companys ability to distribute its network programming to a nationwide audience and affect the Companys ability to sell advertising, which could have a material adverse effect on the Companys results of operations. Showtime Networks and the CSTV cable network are also dependent upon the maintenance of affiliation agreements with cable, DTH satellite and other operators, and there can be no assurance that these affiliation agreements will be renewed in the future on terms acceptable to such programmers. The loss of one or more of these arrangements could reduce the distribution of Showtime Networks and CSTVs program services and reduce revenues from subscriber fees and I 27 advertising, as applicable. Further, the loss of favorable packaging, positioning, pricing or other marketing opportunities with any distributor could reduce revenues from subscriber fees. In addition, consolidation among cable and DTH satellite operators and increased vertical integration of such distributors into the cable or broadcast network business have provided more leverage to these providers and could adversely affect the Companys ability to maintain or obtain distribution for its network programming or distribution and or marketing of its subscription program services on favorable or commercially reasonable terms, or at all. The Failure or Destruction of Satellites and Transmitter Facilities that the Company Depends Upon to Distribute Its Programming Could Materially Adversely Affect the Companys Businesses and Results of Operations The Company uses satellite systems to transmit its broadcast and cable networks to affiliates. The distribution facilities include uplinks, communications satellites and downlinks. Transmissions may be disrupted as a result of local disasters that impair on ground uplinks or downlinks, or as a result of an impairment of a satellite. Currently, there are a limited number of communications satellites available for the transmission of programming. If a disruption occurs, the Company may not be able to secure alternate distribution facilities in a timely manner. Failure to secure alternate distribution facilities in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on the Companys businesses and results of operations. In addition, each of the Companys television and radio stations and cable networks uses studio and transmitter facilities that are subject to damage or destruction. Failure to restore such facilities in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on the Companys businesses and results of operations. The Company Could Suffer Losses Due to Asset Impairment Charges for Goodwill, Intangible Assets, FCC Licenses and Programming In accordance with SFAS 142, the Company will test goodwill and intangible assets, including broadcast licenses, for impairment during the fourth quarter of each year, and on an interim date should factors or indicators become apparent that would require an interim test. A downward revision in the fair value of a reporting unit or intangible assets could result in an impairment under SFAS 142 and a non cash charge would be required. Any significant shortfall, now or in the future, in the expected popularity of the programming for which the Company has acquired rights could lead to a downward revision in the fair value of such assets. Any such charge could have a material adverse effect on the Companys reported net earnings. The Loss of Key Personnel, Including Talent, Could Disrupt the Management or Operations of the Companys Business and Adversely Affect Its Revenues The Companys business depends upon the continued efforts, abilities and expertise of its chief executive officer and other key employees and entertainment personalities. The Company believes that the unique combination of skills and experience possessed by its executive officers would be difficult to replace, and that the loss of its executive officers could have a material adverse effect on the Company, including the impairment of the Companys ability to execute its business strategy. Additionally, the Company employs or independently contracts with several entertainment personalities and authors with significant loyal audiences. Entertainment personalities are sometimes significantly responsible for the ranking of a television or radio station and, therefore, the ability of the station to sell advertising, and an authors popularity can be significantly responsible for the success of a particular book. There can be no assurance that these entertainment personalities and authors will remain with the Company or will retain their current audiences or readership. If the Company fails to retain these entertainment personalities and authors or they lose their current audiences or readership, the Companys revenues could be adversely affected. Regulation of the Outdoor Advertising Industry Could Materially Adversely Affect the Companys Outdoor Business The outdoor advertising industry is subject to extensive governmental regulation and enforcement at the federal, state and local levels in the U.S. and to national, regional and local restrictions in foreign countries. These regulations and enforcement actions can affect the operation and continuance of I 28 operations of advertising displays and include restrictions on the construction, repair, upgrading, height, size and location of outdoor advertising structures and, in some instances, the content of advertising copy that can be displayed on these structures. In addition, outdoor advertising is the subject of targeted state and municipal taxes. Such laws may reduce the Companys expansion opportunities or may increase competitive pressure from others. The Company cannot give any assurance that existing or future laws or regulations will not materially and adversely affect its outdoor business. Fluctuations in Foreign Exchange Rates Could Have an Adverse Effect on the Companys Results of Operations Certain of the Companys revenues are earned and expenses are incurred in foreign currencies. The value of these currencies fluctuates relative to the U.S. dollar. As a result, the Company is exposed to exchange rate fluctuations, which could have an adverse effect on its results of operations. The Companys Liabilities Related to Discontinued Operations and Former Businesses Could Adversely Impact Its Financial Condition The Company has both recognized and potential liabilities and costs related to discontinued operations and former businesses, certain of which are unrelated to the media business, including leases, guarantees, environmental liabilities, liabilities related to the pensions and medical expenses of retirees, asbestos liabilities, contractual disputes and other pending and threatened litigation. The Company cannot be assured that its reserves are sufficient to cover these liabilities in their entirety or any one of these liabilities when it becomes due or at what point any of these liabilities may come due. Therefore, there can be no assurances that these liabilities will not have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial position, operating performance or cash flow. The Company Could Be Adversely Affected by Strikes and Other Union Activity The Company and its suppliers engage the services of writers, directors, actors and other talent, trade employees and others who are subject to collective bargaining agreements. If the Company or its suppliers are unable to renew expiring collective bargaining agreements, it is possible that the affected unions could take action in the form of strikes or work stoppages. Such actions, higher costs in connection with these agreements or a significant labor dispute could adversely affect the Companys television and radio businesses by causing delays in the production of the Companys television or radio programming or the Companys outdoor business by disrupting its ability to place advertising on outdoor faces. On February 12, 2008, the industry wide strike of the freelance writers represented by the Writers Guild of America (East and West), which began on November 5, 2007, was settled. Depending on their duration, strikes or work stoppages could have an adverse effect on the Companys revenues and operating income. Political and Economic Risks Associated with the Companys International Businesses Could Harm the Companys Financial Condition or Results of Operations The Companys businesses operate and have customers worldwide. Inherent risks of doing business in international markets include, among other risks, changes in the economic environment, export restrictions, exchange controls, tariffs and other trade barriers and longer payment cycles. The Company may incur substantial expense as a result of the imposition of new restrictions or changes in the existing economic environment in the regions where it does business. In addition, acts of terrorism or other hostilities, or other future financial, political, economic or other uncertainties, could lead to a reduction in advertising expenditures, which could materially adversely affect the Companys business, financial condition or results of operations. NAI, Through Its Voting Control of the Company, Is in a Position to Control Actions that Require Stockholder Approval NAI, through its beneficial ownership of the Companys Class A Common Stock, has voting control of the Company. Mr. Sumner M. Redstone, the controlling stockholder, chairman of the board of directors and chief executive officer of NAI, serves as Executive Chairman of the Companys Board of Directors, and Ms. Shari Redstone, the president and a director of NAI, serves as Vice Chair of the Companys Board of Directors. In addition, Mr. David R. Andelman is a director of NAI and serves as a director of the I 29 Company. NAI is in a position to control the outcome of corporate actions that require stockholder approval, including the election of directors and transactions involving a change of control. Other stockholders are unable to affect the outcome of the corporate actions of the Company for so long as NAI retains voting control. Many Factors May Cause the Stock Price of the Companys Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock to Fluctuate The stock price of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock may fluctuate significantly as a result of many factors. These factors, some or all of which are beyond the Companys control, include: lack of a significant trading history since the Separation; actual or anticipated fluctuations in CBS Corp.s operating results; changes in expectations as to CBS Corp.s future financial performance or changes in financial estimates of securities analysts; success of CBS Corp.s operating and growth strategies; investor anticipation of strategic, technological or regulatory threats, whether or not warranted by actual events; operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies; and realization of any of the risks described in these risk factors. In addition, the stock market has experienced volatility that often has been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the trading prices of the Companys common stock, regardless of the Companys actual operating performance.  Risks Related to the Separation The Businesses of the Company and Viacom Inc. Will Be Attributable to the Other Company for Certain Regulatory Purposes So long as the Company and Viacom Inc. are under common control, each companys businesses, as well as the businesses of any other commonly controlled company, will be attributable to the other company for purposes of certain rules and regulations of the FCC and certain rules regarding political campaign contributions in the U.S., among others potentially. The businesses of one company will continue to be attributable to the other company for certain FCC purposes even after the two companies cease to be commonly controlled, if the two companies share common officers, directors, or attributable stockholders. As a result, the businesses and conduct of Viacom Inc. may have the effect of limiting the activities or strategic business alternatives available to the Company. The Separation Agreement Prohibits the Company from Engaging in Certain Types of Businesses Under the terms of the Separation Agreement entered into between the Company and Viacom Inc. in connection with the Separation, the Company may not make acquisitions, enter into agreements or accept or agree to any condition that purports to bind Viacom Inc. or subjects Viacom Inc. to restrictions it is not otherwise subject to by legal order without Viacom Inc.s consent. The Company and Viacom Inc. have agreed that prior to the earliest of (1) the fourth anniversary of the Separation, (2) the date on which none of Mr. Redstone, NAI, NAIRI, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of NAI, or any of their successors, assigns or transferees are deemed to have interests in both the Company and Viacom Inc. that are attributable under applicable U.S. federal laws and (3) the date on which the other company ceases to own the video programming vendors that it owns as of the Separation, neither of them will own or acquire an interest in a cable television operator if such ownership would subject the other company to U.S. federal laws regulating contractual relationships between video programming vendors and video programming distributors that the other company is not then subject to. These restrictions could limit the strategic business alternatives available to the Company. I 30 The Tax Matters Agreement and the Tax Rules Applicable to the Separation May Restrict the Companys Ability to Engage in Certain Corporate Transactions In connection with the Separation, the Company and Viacom Inc. entered into a tax matters agreement dated December 30, 2005, which is filed as an exhibit to this report, effective as of the Separation (the "Tax Matters Agreement"). The Tax Matters Agreement provides, among other things, that, depending on the event, Viacom Inc. may have to indemnify the Company, or the Company may have to indemnify Viacom Inc., for some or all of the taxes resulting from the merger and the distribution of Viacom Inc. common stock in the merger if the merger and distribution do not qualify as a tax free distribution under Sections 355 and 368 of the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"). In addition, the current U.S. federal income tax law creates a presumption that the distribution of Viacom Inc. common stock in the merger would be taxable to Former Viacom, but not to its stockholders, if either Viacom Inc. or the Company engages in, or enters into an agreement to engage in, a transaction that would result in a 50% or greater change, by vote or value, in the Companys or Viacom Inc.s stock ownership during the four year period that begins two years before the date of the Separation, unless it is established that the transaction was not undertaken pursuant to a plan or series of transactions related to the Separation. The Treasury Regulations currently in effect generally provide that whether such distribution is part of a plan is determined based on all of the facts and circumstances, including, but not limited to, specific factors described in the Treasury Regulations. In addition, the Treasury Regulations provide several "safe harbors" for acquisition transactions that are not considered to be part of a plan. The indemnification obligations set forth in the Tax Matters Agreement and the above described provisions of the tax law may prevent the Company from entering into transactions which might be advantageous to its stockholders, such as issuing equity securities to satisfy financing needs or acquiring businesses or assets with equity securities, and may make the Company less attractive to a potential acquirer and reduce the possibility that an acquirer will propose or seek to effect certain transactions with the Company. If the Merger Is Determined to Be Taxable, the Company and Its Stockholders Could Be Subject to a Material Amount of Taxes Former Viacom received an opinion of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP and a private letter ruling from the U.S. Internal Revenue Service ("IRS"), in each case, to the effect that, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the merger and the distribution of Viacom Inc. common stock in the merger qualified as a tax free distribution under Sections 355 and 368 of the Code and the distribution of the Companys common stock in the merger was also generally tax free to Former Viacom and its stockholders. In accordance with current IRS ruling policy, the IRS ruling does not address certain significant issues relating to qualification under Section 355 of the Code and, as to those issues, Former Viacom relied on an opinion of counsel. The merger was structured to be tax free for U.S. federal income tax purposes to Former Viacom stockholders, except with respect to cash received in lieu of fractional shares of CBS Corp. common stock. The merger was also tax free to the Company for U.S. federal income tax purposes, except with respect to taxes arising out of foreign and other internal restructurings undertaken in connection with the Separation and any "excess loss account" or "intercompany transaction" required to be taken into account by Former Viacom under the Treasury Regulations. The IRS ruling was based on the facts presented and representations made by Former Viacom in the ruling request. Generally, an IRS private letter ruling will not be revoked or modified retroactively unless there was an omission or misstatement of a material fact or a breach of a material representation. If the facts or representations are found to be incorrect or incomplete in a material respect or if the facts at the time of the Separation were materially different from the facts upon which the IRS ruling was based, the Company cannot rely on the IRS ruling. An opinion of counsel is not binding on the IRS or any court and is also based on representations and assumptions included therein. If the factual representations and assumptions were incorrect, the Company cannot rely on the tax opinion. If the merger is determined to be taxable, the Company and its stockholders who received shares of CBS Corp. common stock would be subject to a material amount of taxes. CBS Corp. will not indemnify any individual stockholder for any taxes that may be incurred in connection with the Separation. I 31 In Connection with the Separation, Each Company Will Rely on the Other Companys Performance Under Various Agreements Between the Companies In connection with the Separation, the Company and Viacom Inc. entered into various agreements, including the Separation Agreement, the Tax Matters Agreement, a transition services agreement pursuant to which the Company and Viacom Inc. have agreed to provide certain specified services to each other following the Separation (the "transition services agreement") and certain related party arrangements pursuant to which the Company and Viacom Inc. will provide services and products to each other from and after the Separation. The Separation Agreement sets forth the allocation of assets, liabilities, rights and obligations of the Company and Viacom Inc. following the Separation, and includes indemnification obligations for such liabilities and obligations. In addition, pursuant to the Tax Matters Agreement, certain income tax liabilities and related responsibilities are allocated between, and indemnification obligations are assumed by, each of the Company and New Viacom. Each company will rely on the other to satisfy its performance and payment obligations under these agreements. Certain of the liabilities to be assumed or indemnified by the Company or Viacom Inc. under these agreements are legal or contractual liabilities of the other company. If Viacom Inc. were to breach or be unable to satisfy its material obligations under these agreements, including a failure to satisfy its indemnification obligations, the Company could suffer operational difficulties or significant losses. Certain Members of Management, Directors and Stockholders May Face Actual or Potential Conflicts of Interest The management and directors of the Company may own both CBS Corp. common stock and Viacom Inc. common stock, and both the Company and Viacom Inc. are controlled by NAI. Mr. Redstone, the controlling stockholder, chairman of the board of directors and chief executive officer of NAI, serves as Executive Chairman of the Companys Board of Directors and executive chairman of Viacom Inc.s board of directors. Ms. Redstone, the president and a director of NAI, serves as Vice Chair of the Board of Directors of each of the Company and Viacom Inc. Mr. David R. Andelman is a director of NAI and serves as a director of the Company. This ownership overlap and these common directors could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when the Companys and Viacom Inc.s management, directors and controlling stockholder face decisions that could have different implications for the Company and Viacom Inc. For example, potential conflicts of interest could arise in connection with the resolution of any dispute between the Company and Viacom Inc. regarding the terms of the agreements governing the Separation and the relationship between the Company and Viacom Inc. thereafter. These agreements include, among others, the Separation Agreement, the Tax Matters Agreement, the transition services agreement and any commercial agreements between the parties or their affiliates. Potential conflicts of interest could also arise if the Company and Viacom Inc. enter into any commercial arrangements with each other in the future. Each of Mr. Redstone and Ms. Redstone may also face conflicts of interest with regard to the allocation of his or her time between the Company and Viacom Inc. CBS Corp.s certificate of incorporation contains provisions related to corporate opportunities that may be of interest to both the Company and Viacom Inc. CBS Corp.s certificate of incorporation provides that in the event that a director, officer or controlling stockholder of the Company who is also a director, officer or controlling stockholder of Viacom Inc. acquires knowledge of a potential corporate opportunity for both the Company and Viacom Inc., such director, officer or controlling stockholder may present such opportunity to the Company or Viacom Inc. or both, as such director, officer or controlling stockholder deems appropriate in his or her sole discretion, and that by doing so such person will have satisfied his or her fiduciary duties to the Company and its stockholders. In addition, CBS Corp.s certificate of incorporation provides that it renounces any interest in any such opportunity presented to Viacom Inc. These provisions create the possibility that a corporate opportunity of one of such companies may be used for the benefit of the other company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. I 32  Item 2. Properties. The Company maintains its world headquarters at 51 West 52nd Street, New York, New York, where it owns a building containing approximately 900,000 square feet of space, of which approximately 310,000 square feet is occupied by the Company, with the balance being leased to third parties. The Company owns the CBS Broadcast Center complex located on approximately 3.7 acres at 524 West 57th Street, New York, New York, which consists of approximately 860,000 square feet of office and studio space. The Company also owns two studio facilities in California: (a) the CBS Studio Center at 4024 Radford Avenue, Studio City, California, located on approximately 40 acres, and (b) CBS Television City at 7800 Beverly Boulevard, Los Angeles, California, located on approximately 25 acres. In addition, the Company leases or subleases from Viacom Inc. subsidiaries the following facilities for certain of its operating divisions: (a) office and studio space at 1515 Broadway, New York, New York, (b) office space at 1633 Broadway, New York, New York and (c) office and tape storage space at the Paramount Pictures Studio, 5555 Melrose Avenue, Los Angeles, California. Showtime occupies approximately 230,000 square feet at 1633 Broadway, New York, New York. The lease for this space expires May 31, 2010. Simon & Schuster leases approximately 290,000 square feet of office space at 1230 Avenue of the Americas, New York, New York, which lease runs to 2014. In December 2006, the Company entered into a lease through 2027 for approximately 80,000 square feet at 345 Hudson Street, New York, New York, for at least four of its radio stations. In early 2007, the Company increased the amount of the leased space at 345 Hudson Street to approximately 108,000 square feet. The Company and its subsidiaries also own and lease office, studio and warehouse space, broadcast, antenna and satellite transmission facilities and outdoor advertising properties throughout the U.S., Canada and several countries around the world for its businesses. The Company considers its properties adequate for its present needs. Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Shareholder Derivative Lawsuits. Two shareholder derivative lawsuits, consolidated as In re Viacom Inc. Shareholders Derivative Litigation, were filed in July 2005 in New York State Supreme Court relating to executive compensation and alleged corporate waste. The actions named each member of Former Viacoms Board of Directors at the time the actions were filed, the two former Co Presidents and Co Chief Operating Officers of Former Viacom, and, as a nominal defendant, Former Viacom, alleging that the 2004 compensation of such officers and the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Former Viacom was improper. In January 2007, a new shareholder derivative action was filed in New York Supreme Court, which contained allegations similar to those in the earlier actions, and was consolidated with In re Viacom Inc. Shareholders Derivative Litigation. In April 2007, following notice to shareholders, the parties executed a Stipulation of Settlement, which resolved all of these actions. By order and final judgment entered December 3, 2007, the court approved the Stipulation of Settlement and dismissed the action with prejudice. The Company and Viacom Inc. have agreed to equally share all costs and expenses relating to this matter. Claims Related to Former Businesses: Asbestos, Environmental and Other. The Company is a defendant in lawsuits claiming various personal injuries related to asbestos and other materials, which allegedly occurred principally as a result of exposure caused by various products manufactured by Westinghouse, a predecessor, generally prior to the early 1970s. Westinghouse was neither a producer nor a manufacturer of asbestos. The Company is typically named as one of a large number of defendants in both state and federal cases. In the majority of asbestos lawsuits, the plaintiffs have not identified which of the Companys products is the basis of a claim. Claims against the Company in which a product has been identified principally relate to exposures allegedly caused by asbestos containing insulating material in turbines sold for power generation, industrial and marine use, or by asbestos containing grades of decorative micarta, a laminate used in commercial ships. Claims are frequently filed and or settled in large groups, which may make the amount and timing of settlements, and the number of pending claims, subject to significant fluctuation from period to period. I 33 The Company does not report as pending those claims on inactive, stayed, deferred or similar dockets which some jurisdictions have established for claimants who allege minimal or no impairment. As of December 31, 2007, the Company had pending approximately 72,120 asbestos claims, as compared with approximately 73,310 as of December 31, 2006 and approximately 101,170 as of December 31, 2005. Of the claims pending as of December 31, 2007, approximately 40,520 were pending in state courts, 28,100 in federal courts and, additionally, approximately 3,500 were third party claims pending in state courts. During 2007, the Company received approximately 4,590 new claims and closed or moved to an inactive docket approximately 5,780 claims. The Company reports claims as closed when it becomes aware that a dismissal order has been entered by a court or when the Company has reached agreement with the claimants on the material terms of a settlement. Settlement costs depend on the seriousness of the injuries that form the basis of the claim, the quality of evidence supporting the claims and other factors. The Companys total costs for the years 2007 and 2006 for settlement and defense of asbestos claims after insurance recoveries and net of tax benefits were approximately $17.5 million and $5.7 million, respectively. The Companys costs for settlement and defense of asbestos claims may vary year to year as insurance proceeds are not always recovered in the same period as the insured portion of the expenses. Filings include claims for individuals suffering from mesothelioma, a rare cancer, the risk of which is allegedly increased primarily by exposure to asbestos; lung cancer, a cancer which may be caused by various factors, one of which is alleged to be asbestos exposure; other cancers, and conditions that are substantially less serious, including claims brought on behalf of individuals who are asymptomatic as to an allegedly asbestos related disease. Claims identified as cancer remain a small percentage of asbestos claims pending at December 31, 2007. In a substantial number of the pending claims, the plaintiff has not yet identified the claimed injury. The Company believes that its reserves and insurance are adequate to cover its asbestos liabilities. The Company from time to time receives claims from federal and state environmental regulatory agencies and other entities asserting that it is or may be liable for environmental cleanup costs and related damages principally relating to historical and predecessor operations of the Company. In addition, the Company from time to time receives personal injury claims including toxic tort and product liability claims (other than asbestos) arising from historical operations of the Company and its predecessors. General. On an ongoing basis, the Company defends itself in numerous lawsuits and proceedings and responds to various investigations and inquiries from federal, state and local authorities (collectively, "litigation"). Litigation is inherently uncertain and always difficult to predict. However, based on its understanding and evaluation of the relevant facts and circumstances, the Company believes that the above described legal matters and other litigation to which it is a party are not likely, in the aggregate, to have a material adverse effect on its results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Under the Separation Agreement between the Company and Viacom Inc., the Company and Viacom Inc. have agreed to defend and indemnify the other in certain litigation in which the Company and or Viacom Inc. is named. Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders. None. I 34 EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY Set forth below is certain information concerning the executive officers of the Company as of February 28, 2008. Name Age Title Sumner M. Redstone 84 Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors and Founder Leslie Moonves 58 President and Chief Executive Officer and Director Anthony G. Ambrosio 47 Executive Vice President, Human Resources and Administration Louis J. Briskman 59 Executive Vice President and General Counsel Martin D. Franks 57 Executive Vice President, Planning, Policy and Government Relations Susan C. Gordon 54 Senior Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer Joseph R. Ianniello 40 Senior Vice President, Finance and Treasurer Richard M. Jones 42 Senior Vice President and General Tax Counsel Fredric G. Reynolds 57 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Gil Schwartz 56 Executive Vice President and Chief Communications Officer Martin M. Shea 64 Executive Vice President, Investor Relations Angeline C. Straka 62 Senior Vice President, Deputy General Counsel and Secretary None of the executive officers of the Company is related to any other executive officer or director by blood, marriage or adoption except that Shari Redstone, Vice Chair of the Board of Directors of the Company, is the daughter of Sumner M. Redstone. Mr. Redstone is the Companys Founder and has been Executive Chairman of the Board of the Company since the Separation. He was Chairman of the Board of Former Viacom from 1987 until the Separation and served as Chief Executive Officer of Former Viacom since 1996 through the Separation. Mr. Redstone has also served as Chairman of the Board of NAI since 1986 and Chief Executive Officer of NAI since 1967. He served as President of NAI from 1967 through 1999. Mr. Redstone served as the first Chairman of the Board of the National Association of Theatre Owners and is currently a member of its Executive Committee. Mr. Redstone has lectured at a variety of universities, including Harvard Law School, Brandeis University, and in 1982 joined the faculty of the Boston University School of Law. Mr. Redstone graduated from Harvard University in 1944 and received a LL.B. from Harvard University School of Law in 1947. Upon graduation, Mr. Redstone served as Law Secretary with the United States Court of Appeals and then as a Special Assistant to the United States Attorney General. Mr. Redstone served in the Military Intelligence Division during World War II. While a student at Harvard, he was selected to join a special intelligence group whose mission was to break Japans high level military and diplomatic codes. Mr. Redstone received, among other honors, two commendations from the Military Intelligence Division in recognition of his service, contribution and devotion to duty. He is also a recipient of the Army Commendation Award. Mr. Redstone also serves as Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors and Founder of Viacom Inc. Mr. Moonves has been President and Chief Executive Officer and a Director of the Company since the Separation. Previously, Mr. Moonves served as Co President and Co Chief Operating Officer of Former Viacom since June 2004. Prior to that, Mr. Moonves served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of CBS since 2003 and as its President and Chief Executive Officer since 1998. Mr. Moonves joined former CBS Corporation in 1995 as President, CBS Entertainment. Prior to that, Mr. Moonves was President of Warner Bros. Television since July 1993. Mr. Ambrosio has been Executive Vice President, Human Resources and Administration of the Company since the Separation. Previously, he served as Co Executive Vice President, Human Resources of Former Viacom since September 2005 and as Senior Vice President, Human Resources and Administration of the CBS, Infinity and Viacom Outdoor businesses since 2000. Prior to that, Mr. Ambrosio served as Vice President, Corporate Human Resources of the former CBS Corporation I 35 from 1999 to 2000, as Vice President, Benefits of the former CBS Corporation from 1995 to November 1999 and as Director, Personnel of the former CBS Corporation in 1995. He joined the former CBS Corporation in 1985 and held various positions in the human resources area since that time. Mr. Briskman has been Executive Vice President and General Counsel of the Company since the Separation. Previously, since September 2005, he served as Executive Vice President and General Counsel of the businesses that comprise the Company after the Separation. Prior to that, Mr. Briskman served as Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Aetna Inc. since April 2004 and as Executive Vice President and General Counsel for CBS Television from 2000 to 2002. From 1993 to 2000, Mr. Briskman served as General Counsel of the former CBS Corporation and its predecessor, Westinghouse Electric Corporation. He joined Westinghouse Electric Corporation in 1975 and became its General Counsel in 1993 after serving as General Counsel of its Group W division beginning in 1983. Mr. Franks has been Executive Vice President, Planning, Policy and Government Relations of the Company since the Separation. Previously, he served as Executive Vice President, CBS Television since 2000 and was also Senior Vice President of Former Viacom from 2000 to 2005. Prior to that, Mr. Franks served as Senior Vice President of the former CBS Corporation from 1997 to 2000, as Senior Vice President, Washington of the former CBS Corporation from 1994 to 1997, and as Vice President, Washington of the former CBS Corporation from 1988 to 1994. Ms. Gordon has been Senior Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of the Company since the Separation. Prior to that, she served as Senior Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of Former Viacom from May 2002 until the Separation, as Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer from April 1995 to May 2002 and as Vice President, Internal Audit of Former Viacom from October 1986 to April 1995. Ms. Gordon served as Controller of Viacom Broadcasting from June 1985 to October 1986. Ms. Gordon joined Former Viacom in 1981. Mr. Ianniello has been Senior Vice President, Finance and Treasurer of the Company since the Separation. Prior to that, he served as Senior Vice President and Treasurer of Former Viacom since July 2005, as Vice President, Corporate Development of Former Viacom from 2000 to 2005 and as Director, Financial Planning of the former CBS Corporation from 1997 to 2000. Mr. Jones has been Senior Vice President and General Tax Counsel of the Company since the Separation and for Former Viacom in December 2005. Previously, he served as Vice President of Tax, Assistant Treasurer and Tax Counsel for NBC Universal, Inc. since 2003. Prior to that, he spent 13 years with Ernst & Young in their media & entertainment and transaction advisory services practices. Mr. Jones also served honorably as a non commissioned officer in the U.S. Armys 75th Ranger Regiment. Mr. Reynolds has been Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company since the Separation. Previously, Mr. Reynolds served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the businesses that comprise the Company after the Separation and President of the CBS Television Stations Group since 2001. Prior to that, Mr. Reynolds served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Former Viacom from 2000 to 2001 and served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the former CBS Corporation and its predecessor, Westinghouse Electric Corporation, from 1994 to 2000. Mr. Reynolds was Chief Financial Officer of CBS Inc. from April 1996 to 1997. Mr. Schwartz has been Executive Vice President and Chief Communications Officer of the Company since the Separation. Previously, he was Executive Vice President of CBS Communications Group, which served the Companys broadcast and local television, syndication, radio and outdoor operations, among others, from 2004 until the Separation. He was Senior Vice President, Communications of CBS from 2000 to 2004, and Senior Vice President, Communications of the former CBS Corporation from 1996 to 2000. Mr. Schwartz served as Vice President, Corporate Communications of Westinghouse Broadcasting from 1995 to 1996. Prior to that, Mr. Schwartz served as Vice President, Communications for Westinghouse I 36 Broadcastings Group W Television Stations from 1989 to 1995. Mr. Schwartz joined Westinghouse Broadcasting in 1981. Mr. Shea has been Executive Vice President, Investor Relations of the Company since the Separation and for Former Viacom since November 2004. Prior to that, he served as Senior Vice President, Investor Relations of Former Viacom since January 1998. Mr. Shea was Senior Vice President, Corporation Communications for Triarc Companies, Inc. from July 1994 to May 1995 and from November 1995 to December 1997. He served as Managing Director of Edelman Worldwide from June 1995 through October 1995. Mr. Shea held various Investor Relations positions at Paramount Communications Inc., serving most recently as Vice President, Investor Relations from 1977 until July 1994. Ms. Straka has been Senior Vice President, Deputy General Counsel and Secretary of the Company since the Separation. Prior to that, Ms. Straka served as Vice President and Associate General Counsel and Co Head of the Corporate, Transactions and Securities practice group in the corporate law department of Former Viacom. Prior to joining the Former Viacom corporate law department in February 2001, Ms. Straka served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Infinity Broadcasting Corporation, then a majority owned public subsidiary of Former Viacom, from May 2000. Ms. Straka was Vice President, Deputy General Counsel and Secretary of the former CBS Corporation and its predecessor, Westinghouse Electric Corporation, since 1992 and up to the time of the May 2000 merger of Former Viacom and the former CBS Corporation. I 37   PART II Item 5. Market for CBS Corporations Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Purchases of Equity Securities. CBS Corporation (the "Company" or "CBS Corp.") voting Class A Common Stock and CBS Corporation non voting Class B Common Stock are listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") under the symbols "CBS.A" and "CBS", respectively. The following table sets forth, for the calendar periods indicated, the per share range of high and low sales prices for CBS Corporations Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock, as reported on the NYSE. Voting Class A Common Stock Non Voting Class B Common Stock High Low High Low 2007 1st quarter $ 32.27 $ 28.73 $ 32.27 $ 28.45 2nd quarter $ 34.00 $ 30.55 $ 34.02 $ 30.46 3rd quarter $ 35.54 $ 28.87 $ 35.75 $ 28.76 4th quarter $ 31.63 $ 25.73 $ 32.20 $ 25.57 2006 1st quarter $ 27.51 $ 23.86 $ 27.45 $ 23.85 2nd quarter $ 27.77 $ 24.13 $ 27.24 $ 24.05 3rd quarter $ 29.75 $ 25.55 $ 29.78 $ 25.53 4th quarter $ 32.01 $ 27.72 $ 32.04 $ 27.33 On February 21, 2008, the Company announced a quarterly cash dividend of $.25 per share on its Class A and Class B Common Stock payable on April 1, 2008. CBS Corporation currently expects to continue to pay a regular cash dividend to its stockholders. The Company declared a quarterly cash dividend on its Class A and Class B Common Stock during each of the four quarters of 2007 and 2006 for a total of $667.1 million and $573.2 million, respectively. During the fourth quarter of 2007, the Company did not purchase any shares under its publicly announced share purchase programs which have remaining authorization of $649.4 million. As of February 15, 2008, there were approximately 2,310 record holders of CBS Corp. Class A Common Stock and approximately 35,410 record holders of CBS Corp. Class B Common Stock. These numbers do not include holders of Former Viacom common stock who had not exchanged, as of February 15, 2008, shares of Former Viacom for shares of CBS Corporation. Information required by this item is also contained in the CBS Corp. Proxy Statement for the Companys 2008 Annual Meeting of Stockholders under the heading "Equity Compensation Plan Information," which information is incorporated herein by reference. II 1 Performance Graph The following graph compares the cumulative total stockholder return on CBS Corp. Class A Common Stock and CBS Corp. Class B Common Stock with the cumulative total return on the companies listed in the Standard & Poors 500 Stock Index and a Peer Group of companies identified below. The performance graph assumes $100 invested on December 31, 2002 in each of the Class A Common Stock of CBS Corp., the Class B Common Stock of CBS Corp., the S&P 500 Index and the Peer Group identified below including reinvestment of dividends, through the calendar year ended December 31, 2007.  Total Cumulative Stockholder Return For Five Year Period Ending December 31, 2007 December 31, 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 CBS Corp. Class A Common Stock $ 100.00 $ 108.80 $ 91.75 $ 81.72 $ 102.49 $ 90.61 CBS Corp. Class B Common Stock $ 100.00 $ 109.20 $ 90.16 $ 81.43 $ 104.25 $ 94.01 S&P 500 $ 100.00 $ 128.69 $ 142.69 $ 149.69 $ 173.32 $ 182.85 Peer Group* $ 100.00 $ 137.38 $ 145.02 $ 129.67 $ 170.61 $ 152.21 * The Peer Group consists of the following companies: The Walt Disney Company; The News Corp. Ltd (ADRs); Time Warner Inc. and Clear Channel Communications, Inc. Tribune Company, which was previously included in the peer group, has been excluded as it was no longer publicly traded at December 31, 2007. II 2 Item 6. Selected Financial Data. CBS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES (In millions, except per share amounts) Year Ended December 31,(a) 2007 2006 2005(b)(c) 2004(b)(c)(d) 2003(b) Revenues $ 14,072.9 $ 14,320.2 $ 14,113.0 $ 14,138.3 $ 13,179.0 Operating income (loss) $ 2,621.8 $ 2,606.4 $ (6,869.5 ) $ (15,201.6 ) $ 2,473.8 Net earnings (loss) from continuing operations $ 1,230.8 $ 1,382.9 $ (8,360.6 ) $ (16,428.7 ) $ 1,089.7 Net earnings from discontinued operations $ 16.2 $ 277.6 $ 1,271.5 $ 278.9 $ 345.7 Net earnings (loss) before cumulative effect of accounting changes $ 1,247.0 $ 1,660.5 $ (7,089.1 ) $ (16,149.8 ) $ 1,435.4 Net earnings (loss) $ 1,247.0 $ 1,660.5 $ (7,089.1 ) $ (17,462.2 ) $ 1,416.9 Basic earnings (loss) per common share Net earnings (loss) from continuing operations $ 1.72 $ 1.81 $ (10.59 ) $ (19.17 ) $ 1.25 Net earnings from discontinued operations $ .02 $ .36 $ 1.61 $ .33 $ .40 Net earnings (loss) before cumulative effect of accounting changes $ 1.75 $ 2.17 $ (8.98 ) $ (18.84 ) $ 1.65 Net earnings (loss) $ 1.75 $ 2.17 $ (8.98 ) $ (20.37 ) $ 1.62 Diluted earnings (loss) per common share Net earnings (loss) from continuing operations $ 1.70 $ 1.79 $ (10.59 ) $ (19.17 ) $ 1.24 Net earnings from discontinued operations $ .02 $ .36 $ 1.61 $ .33 $ .39 Net earnings (loss) before cumulative effect of accounting changes $ 1.73 $ 2.15 $ (8.98 ) $ (18.84 ) $ 1.63 Net earnings (loss) $ 1.73 $ 2.15 $ (8.98 ) $ (20.37 ) $ 1.61 Dividends per common share $ ..94 $ ..74 $ ..56 $ ..50 $ ..24 At Year End: Total assets: Continuing operations $ 40,322.5 $ 43,225.6 $ 42,006.4 $ 49,280.9 $ 67,064.2 Discontinued operations $ 107.7 $ 283.2 $ 1,023.2 $ 18,721.4 $ 23,161.3 Total assets $ 40,430.2 $ 43,508.8 $ 43,029.6 $ 68,002.3 $ 90,225.5 Total debt: Continuing operations $ 7,087.7 $ 7,042.3 $ 7,900.3 $ 9,363.6 $ 9,451.2 Discontinued operations $ 43.0 $ 83.0 $ 153.2 $ 553.4 $ 630.0 Total Stockholders Equity $ 21,472.4 $ 23,522.5 $ 21,737.0 $ 42,024.3 $ 63,205.0 (a)On June 30, 2006, CBS Corporation (the "Company" or "CBS Corp.") sold Paramount Parks to Cedar Fair, L.P. for $1.24 billion in cash. As a result, Paramount Parks is presented as a discontinued operation in the Companys consolidated financial statements. (b)On December 31, 2005, the separation of former Viacom Inc. ("Former Viacom") into two publicly traded entities, CBS Corp. and new Viacom Inc. ("Viacom Inc."), was completed (the "Separation"). Each outstanding share of Former Viacom common stock was converted into the right to receive .5 of a share of CBS Corp. Common Stock and .5 of a share of Viacom Inc. common stock and as a result, all share and per share data of Former Viacom have been adjusted for the periods presented. CBS Corp. has accounted for the Separation as a spin off of Viacom Inc. and, accordingly, the results of Viacom Inc. have been presented as a discontinued operation in the Companys consolidated financial statements. (c)In 2005, as a result of the Companys annual goodwill impairment test performed in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" ("SFAS 142"), a non cash charge of $9.48 billion ($9.46 billion, net of tax), or $11.98 per diluted share, was recorded to reduce the carrying amount of Television and Radio goodwill to their respective estimated fair values. In 2004, as a result of the Companys annual goodwill impairment test, a non cash charge of $18.0 billion ($17.89 billion, net of tax), or $20.87 per diluted share, was recorded to reduce the carrying amount of Radio and Outdoor goodwill and intangible assets to their respective estimated fair values. (d)In 2004, as a result of the initial adoption of Emerging Issues Task Force Topic No. D 108 "Use of Residual Method to Value Acquired Assets Other than Goodwill," the Company recorded an after tax charge of $1.31 billion, or $1.53 per diluted share, as a cumulative effect of accounting change, to reduce the intangible asset balances attributable to television stations FCC licenses. II 3 Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition. (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Managements discussion and analysis of the results of operations and financial condition should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes. Descriptions of all documents incorporated by reference herein or included as exhibits hereto are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of such documents so incorporated or included. Please see Item 1A. Risk Factors in Part I of this report for the Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward Looking Statements and Risk Factors. Overview CBS Corporation (together with its consolidated subsidiaries, unless the context otherwise requires, the "Company" or "CBS Corp.") is comprised of the following segments: Television, Radio, Outdoor and Publishing. During 2006, the Company sold Paramount Parks to Cedar Fair, L.P. for $1.24 billion in cash. As a result, Paramount Parks is presented as a discontinued operation in the consolidated financial statements. The separation of former Viacom Inc. ("Former Viacom") into two publicly traded entities, CBS Corp. and new Viacom Inc. ("Viacom Inc."), was completed on December 31, 2005 (the "Separation"). The Separation was accomplished pursuant to a merger in which a subsidiary of Former Viacom was merged with and into Former Viacom, with Former Viacom continuing as the surviving entity. On December 31, 2005, Former Viacom was renamed "CBS Corporation" and each outstanding share of Former Viacom class A and class B common stock was converted into the right to receive .5 of a share of each of CBS Corp. Class A and Class B Common Stock and .5 of a share of each of Viacom Inc. class A and class B common stock. CBS Corp. has accounted for the Separation as a spin off of Viacom Inc. and, accordingly, the results of Viacom Inc. have been presented as a discontinued operation in the Companys consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005. CBS Corp. operates in the following segments: TELEVISION: The Television segment consists of CBS Television, comprised of the CBS Television Network, the Companys owned television stations, and its television production and syndication operations; Showtime Networks; and CSTV Networks (to be rebranded CBS College Sports Network in March 2008). Television revenues are generated primarily from advertising sales, television license fees and affiliate revenues. Television contributed 66% to consolidated revenues for each of the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. RADIO: The Radio segment owns radio stations in most of the large U.S. markets. Radio revenues are generated primarily from advertising sales. Radio contributed 12%, 14% and 15% to consolidated revenues for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. OUTDOOR: The Outdoor segment, principally through CBS Outdoor, displays advertising on media including billboards, transit shelters, buses, rail systems (in car, station platforms and terminals), mall kiosks, stadium signage and in retail stores. Outdoor revenues are generated primarily from advertising sales. Outdoor contributed 16%, 15% and 14% to consolidated revenues for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. PUBLISHING: The Publishing segment consists of Simon & Schusters consumer book publishing business with imprints such as Simon & Schuster, Pocket Books, Scribner and Free Press. Publishing contributed 6% to consolidated revenues for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, and 5% for the year ended December 31, 2005. II 4  Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Continued) (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Consolidated Results of Operations 2007 vs. 2006 and 2006 vs. 2005 Revenues The tables below present the Companys consolidated revenues by type for each of the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. Revenues by Type Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 Increase/(Decrease) 2007 vs. 2006 2005 Increase/(Decrease) 2006 vs. 2005 Advertising sales $ 10,060.9 $ 10,373.1 $ (312.2 ) (3 )% $ 10,415.7 $ (42.6 ) % Television license fees 1,382.2 1,606.8 (224.6 ) (14 ) 1,277.2 329.6 26 Affiliate revenues 1,117.7 1,069.6 48.1 4 992.1 77.5 8 Publishing 886.1 807.0 79.1 10 763.6 43.4 6 Home entertainment 201.9 83.4 118.5 142 259.7 (176.3 ) (68 ) Other 424.1 380.3 43.8 12 404.7 (24.4 ) (6 ) Total Revenues $ 14,072.9 $ 14,320.2 $ (247.3 ) (2 )% $ 14,113.0 $ 207.2 1 % Year Ended December 31, Percentage of Revenues by Type 2007 2006 2005 Advertising sales 72 % 72 % 74 % Television license fees 10 11 9 Affiliate revenues 8 7 7 Publishing 6 6 5 Home entertainment 1 1 2 Other 3 3 3 Total 100 % 100 % 100 % Advertising sales decreased 3% to $10.06 billion in 2007 from $10.37 billion in 2006 reflecting the absence of UPN and the impact of radio and television station divestitures. These items reduced the Companys advertising sales by 3% for 2007 versus 2006. Television advertising sales decreased 3% reflecting the absence of UPN, the impact of television station divestitures and lower political advertising sales, partially offset by the 2007 telecast of Super Bowl XLI on CBS Television Network. Radio advertising sales decreased 11% in 2007 due to weakness in radio advertising sales and the impact of radio station divestitures. Outdoor advertising sales increased 4% reflecting a 13% increase in Europe and Asia partially offset by a 1% decrease in North America, reflecting a decline in U.S. transit and displays due to the non renewal of certain marginally profitable transit and street furniture contracts in New York City and Chicago partially offset by growth in U.S. billboards. In 2006, advertising sales decreased $42.6 million to $10.37 billion from $10.42 billion in 2005 reflecting decreases at Radio and Television, partially offset by growth at Outdoor. Radio advertising sales decreased 8% reflecting weakness in the overall radio advertising market and the impact of programming changes at 27 owned radio stations during 2006. Television advertising sales decreased 1% primarily reflecting the shutdown of UPN in September 2006 and decreases at CBS Television Network, partially offset by strong political advertising sales at the television stations. Outdoor advertising sales increased 8% reflecting a 9% increase in North America, primarily in U.S. billboards, and a 5% increase in Europe and Asia. Television license fees decreased 14% to $1.38 billion in 2007 from $1.61 billion in 2006 principally reflecting lower domestic syndication revenues as revenues from 2007 domestic availabilities, including II 5 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Continued) (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) NCIS, did not match contributions from the 2006 basic cable availability and off network syndication of Frasier and the 2006 basic cable availability of Star Trek: Voyager. Television license fees increased 26% to $1.61 billion in 2006 from $1.28 billion in 2005 principally reflecting higher revenues from the domestic syndication sales of CSI: Miami, Without a Trace, Frasier and Star Trek: Voyager, and higher foreign syndication revenues, partially offset by the absence of license fees from the 2005 second cycle cable renewal of Everybody Loves Raymond and lower network license fees in 2006. Affiliate revenues increased 4% to $1.12 billion in 2007 from $1.07 billion in 2006 driven by rate increases and subscriber growth at Showtime Networks and CSTV Networks. Affiliate revenues increased 8% to $1.07 billion in 2006 from $992.1 million in 2005, reflecting rate increases and subscriber growth at Showtime Networks and the inclusion of CSTV Networks since its acquisition in January 2006. Publishing revenues increased 10% to $886.1 million in 2007 from $807.0 million in 2006 reflecting higher sales in the Adult and International groups, led by the success of the best selling title The Secret by Rhonda Byrne. Publishing revenues increased 6% to $807.0 million in 2006 from $763.6 million in 2005 primarily driven by sales of top selling titles in the Adult, Childrens and International groups. Home entertainment revenues, primarily consisting of DVD sales, increased $118.5 million to $201.9 million in 2007 from $83.4 million in 2006, as the Company is in the second year of a third party distribution arrangement which provides the Company with revenues after recoupment of upfront distribution costs incurred by the third party distributor. Home entertainment revenues decreased $176.3 million, or 68%, to $83.4 million in 2006 from $259.7 million in 2005 principally reflecting the switch from self distribution in 2005 to third party distribution in 2006. Other revenues, which include digital media revenues and other ancillary fees for Television and Radio operations, increased 12% to $424.1 million in 2007 from $380.3 million in 2006 principally reflecting higher digital media revenues. For 2006, other revenues decreased 6% to $380.3 million from $404.7 million in 2005 primarily reflecting lower revenues from the licensing and merchandising of television product and third party use of the studio facility. International Revenues The Company generated approximately 12% of its total revenues from international regions in 2007, 11% in 2006 and 12% in 2005. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Percentage of Total 2006 Percentage of Total 2005 Percentage of Total United Kingdom $ 534.9 31 % $ 484.5 31 % $ 491.2 30 % Other Europe 610.4 35 548.5 35 666.4 41 Canada 302.2 18 276.5 17 284.4 17 All other 275.2 16 270.8 17 190.4 12 Total International Revenues $1,722.7 100 % $1,580.3 100 % $1,632.4 100 % II 6 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Continued) (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Operating Expenses The table below presents the Companys consolidated operating expenses by type: Operating Expenses by Type Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 Increase/ (Decrease) 2007 vs. 2006 2005 Increase/ (Decrease) 2006 vs. 2005 Programming $ 3,394.9 $ 3,354.7 $ 40.2 1 % $ 3,453.4 $ (98.7 ) (3 )% Production 2,331.9 2,585.1 (253.2 ) (10 ) 2,403.6 181.5 8 Outdoor operations 1,177.4 1,168.3 9.1 1 1,134.2 34.1 3 Publishing operations 590.1 539.2 50.9 9 525.0 14.2 3 Other 835.0 777.5 57.5 7 862.1 (84.6 ) (10 ) Total Operating Expenses $ 8,329.3 $ 8,424.8 $ (95.5 ) (1 )% $ 8,378.3 $ 46.5 1 % For 2007, operating expenses of $8.33 billion decreased 1% from $8.42 billion in 2006. For 2006, operating expenses of $8.42 billion increased 1% from $8.38 billion in 2005. The major components and changes in operating expenses were as follows: Programming expenses represented 41% of total operating expenses in 2007, 40% in 2006 and 41% in 2005, and reflect the amortization of acquired rights of programs exhibited on the broadcast and cable networks, and television and radio stations. Programming expenses increased 1% to $3.39 billion in 2007 from $3.35 billion in 2006 reflecting higher costs associated with the 2007 telecast of Super Bowl XLI on CBS Television Network partially offset by lower expenses resulting from the absence of UPN. Programming expenses decreased 3% to $3.35 billion in 2006 from $3.45 billion in 2005 principally reflecting lower costs associated with primetime series on CBS Television Network, the shutdown of UPN and lower sports programming expenses at Radio. Production expenses represented 28% of total operating expenses in 2007, 31% in 2006 and 29% in 2005, and reflect the costs and amortization of internally developed television programs, including direct production costs, residuals and participation expenses, and production overhead, as well as television and radio costs, including on air talent and other production costs. Production expenses decreased 10% to $2.33 billion in 2007 from $2.59 billion in 2006 primarily reflecting lower costs associated with lower syndication revenues. Production expenses increased 8% to $2.59 billion in 2006 from $2.40 billion in 2005 primarily reflecting higher costs relating to the 2006 syndication sales of Frasier and CSI: Miami. Outdoor operations expenses represented 14% of total operating expenses in each of the years 2007, 2006 and 2005, and reflect transit, billboard lease, maintenance, posting and rotation expenses. Outdoor operations expenses increased 1% to $1.18 billion in 2007 from $1.17 billion in 2006 primarily due to the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rate changes and increased costs for maintenance and materials, partially offset by lower transit costs, principally reflecting the non renewal of certain transit and street furniture contracts in New York City and Chicago. Outdoor operations expenses increased 3% to $1.17 billion in 2006 from $1.13 billion in 2005 principally reflecting higher transit and billboard lease costs partially offset by the absence of the impact of 2005 hurricanes. Publishing operations expenses, which represented 7% of total operating expenses in 2007, and 6% in both 2006 and 2005, reflect cost of book sales, royalties and other costs incurred with respect to publishing operations. Publishing operations expenses for 2007 increased 9% to $590.1 million from $539.2 million in 2006 reflecting higher production costs and royalty expenses resulting from the increase in revenues and the mix of titles. Publishing operations expenses for 2006 increased 3% to II 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Continued) (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) $539.2 million from $525.0 million in 2005 reflecting higher production, return, and freight and delivery costs partially offset by lower royalty expenses. Other operating expenses, which represented 10% of total operating expenses in 2007, 9% in 2006 and 10% in 2005, primarily include distribution expenses incurred with respect to television product, costs associated with digital media, and compensation. Other operating expenses increased 7% to $835.0 million in 2007 from $777.5 million in 2006 due to higher television distribution costs and higher costs associated with digital media. Other operating expenses decreased 10% to $777.5 million in 2006 from $862.1 million in 2005 primarily reflecting lower home entertainment distribution costs due to the switch from self distribution in 2005 to third party distribution in 2006, partially offset by higher costs associated with digital media investment and expansion. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") expenses, which include expenses incurred for selling and marketing costs, occupancy and back office support, represented 19% of revenues for each of the years 2007, 2006 and 2005. SG&A expenses decreased $118.2 million, or 4%, to $2.67 billion in 2007 from $2.78 billion in 2006, primarily reflecting lower expenses due to the sale of radio and television stations, the absence of UPN and lower pension and postretirement benefits costs. These decreases were partially offset by an increase of $42.3 million in stock based compensation expense and increased costs associated with online and interactive businesses. In 2007, pension and postretirement benefits costs decreased $66.7 million from 2006 primarily due to the recognition of lower actuarial losses and the impact of $250.0 million of discretionary contributions made during 2006 to pre fund the Companys qualified pension plans. For 2006, SG&A expenses increased $104.6 million, or 4%, to $2.78 billion from $2.68 billion in 2005 primarily reflecting higher employee related costs, including an increase of $46.7 million in stock based compensation expense, the inclusion of CSTV Networks since its acquisition in January 2006 and $24.0 million of UPN shutdown costs, partially offset by lower expenses resulting from the absence of UPN since September 2006. In 2006, pension and postretirement benefits costs increased $39.6 million from 2005, primarily due to an increase in pension costs from the recognition of higher actuarial losses, which resulted from the change in the mortality rate assumption and lower than expected plan asset performance in 2005 partially offset by lower postretirement benefits costs reflecting the effect of a Medicare Part D subsidy. Advertising expenses of $328.1 million included in SG&A expenses in 2006 decreased 4% from 2005 primarily due to lower spending at Television, principally reflecting the shutdown of UPN. Impairment Charges The Company recorded a pre tax impairment charge of $65.2 million in the fourth quarter of 2006 to reduce the carrying value of the allocated goodwill for certain television stations to be disposed. The Company completed the sale of these television stations on January 10, 2008 (See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements). Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") 142 "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" ("SFAS 142") requires the Company to perform a fair value based impairment test of goodwill on at least an annual basis. The first step of the test examines whether or not the book value of each of the Companys reporting units exceeds its fair value. If the book value for a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step of the test is then required to compare the implied fair value of that reporting units goodwill with the book value of its goodwill. The Companys reporting units are generally one level below or at the operating II 8 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Continued) (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) segment level. Effective as of the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company tested for goodwill impairment for the Radio operating segment at its geographic component level. The estimated fair value of each reporting unit was computed principally based upon the present value of future cash flows (Discounted Cash Flow Method) and both the traded and transaction values of comparable businesses (Market Comparable Method). The Discounted Cash Flow Method and Market Comparable Method were weighted equally and resulted in substantially equal fair values. As a result of the 2005 annual impairment test, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $9.48 billion in the fourth quarter of 2005. The $9.48 billion reflected charges to reduce the carrying value of goodwill at the Television segment of $6.44 billion and the Radio segment of $3.05 billion. Depreciation and Amortization For 2007, depreciation and amortization increased $16.2 million, or 4%, to $455.7 million from $439.5 million principally reflecting higher depreciation associated with new broadcast facilities. For 2006, depreciation and amortization decreased slightly to $439.5 million from $440.1 million. Interest Expense For 2007, interest expense increased $5.4 million to $570.9 million from $565.5 million as debt balances in 2007 remained relatively consistent with the prior year. The Company had $7.09 billion at December 31, 2007 and $7.04 billion at December 31, 2006 of principal amounts of debt outstanding (including current maturities) at weighted average interest rates of 7.1% and 7.0%, respectively. For 2006, interest expense decreased 22% to $565.5 million from $720.5 million in 2005 due to lower debt balances in 2006. In the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company received from Viacom Inc. a $5.4 billion special cash dividend as a result of the Separation, which was used by the Company to repay outstanding commercial paper, debt outstanding under a revolving credit facility and certain fixed rate debt upon maturity in January 2006. In addition, certain fixed rate debt was repaid during 2005, upon maturity. Interest Income For 2007, interest income increased $4.0 million to $116.1 million from $112.1 million in 2006. For 2006, interest income increased to $112.1 million from $21.3 million in 2005, principally resulting from an increase in cash and cash equivalents, primarily reflecting the proceeds from the sale of Paramount Parks and cash flow from operations. Loss on Early Extinguishment of Debt For 2006, "Loss on early extinguishment of debt" of $6.0 million reflected losses recognized upon the early redemption of $50.0 million of the Companys 6.625% senior notes due 2011 and $52.2 million of the Companys 7.70% senior notes due 2010. Other Items, Net For 2007, "Other items, net" reflected a net loss of $34.0 million principally consisting of losses associated with securitizing trade receivables of $32.0 million and a non cash charge of $24.8 million associated with an other than temporary decline in the market value of one of the Companys investments, partially offset by a net pre tax gain of $10.0 million on television and radio station divestitures, foreign exchange gains of $8.0 million and gains of $3.9 million on the sale of investments. For 2006, "Other items, net" reflected a net loss of $14.3 million principally consisting of losses associated with securitizing trade receivables of $31.0 million, a non cash charge of $6.2 million associated II 9 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Continued) (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) with an other than temporary decline in the market value of one of the Companys investments and foreign exchange losses of $2.0 million, partially offset by a pre tax gain of $24.6 million on radio station divestitures. For 2005, "Other items, net" of $4.3 million principally reflected a net gain of $86.2 million from the sale of investments and businesses, and foreign exchange gains of $9.9 million, partially offset by losses associated with securitizing trade receivables of $23.8 million and a non cash charge of $67.9 million associated with other than temporary declines in the market value of certain radio investments. Provision for Income Taxes The provision for income taxes represents federal, state and local, and foreign income taxes on earnings (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes, equity in loss of investee companies and minority interest. The provision for income taxes for continuing operations was $821.5 million, $652.2 million and $794.2 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The annual effective income tax rate was 38.5% in 2007 versus 30.6% in 2006 reflecting the absence of 2006 tax settlements of $164.1 million and the tax impact of television and radio station divestitures. The provision for income taxes included tax provisions of $68.5 million and $33.5 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively, relating to station divestitures. For 2005, the annual effective income tax rate was (10.5)% which included the impact of the pre tax non cash impairment charge of $9.48 billion ($9.46 billion, net of tax) to reduce the carrying value of goodwill. For 2008, the annual effective income tax rate is anticipated to be in the range of 38.0% to 38.5%. Equity in Loss of Investee Companies, Net of Tax Equity in loss of investee companies, net of tax, reflects the operating results of the Companys equity investments. Equity in loss of investee companies, net of tax, was $80.6 million for 2007, $97.0 million for 2006 and $1.5 million for 2005. These net losses principally reflected non cash charges of $62.9 million, $94.2 million and $20.7 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, associated with other than temporary declines in the market value of the Companys investments, principally Westwood One, Inc. ("Westwood One"). The net losses in 2007 and 2006 also reflected operating losses from the Companys 50% investment in The CW. Minority Interest, Net of Tax Minority interest primarily represents the minority ownership of certain international entities. Net Earnings (Loss) from Continuing Operations For 2007, the Company reported net earnings from continuing operations of $1.23 billion versus net earnings from continuing operations of $1.38 billion in 2006, and a net loss from continuing operations of $8.36 billion in 2005. The loss in 2005 was driven by the non cash impairment charge of $9.48 billion to reduce the carrying value of goodwill. II 10  Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Continued) (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Net Earnings from Discontinued Operations During 2006, Paramount Parks was sold to Cedar Fair, L.P. for $1.24 billion in cash and as a result, Paramount Parks has been presented as a discontinued operation in the consolidated financial statements. The Separation of Former Viacom was accounted for by the Company as a spin off of Viacom Inc. Accordingly, the operations of Viacom Inc. are presented as a discontinued operation in the Companys consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005. For the year ended December 31, 2007, net earnings from discontinued operations of $16.2 million principally reflects adjustments to the gain on the sale of Paramount Parks. The following tables set forth the details of CBS Corp.s net earnings from discontinued operations for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005. For the year ended December 31, 2006, net earnings from discontinued operations primarily reflected the operating results and the gain on the sale of Paramount Parks. Net earnings from discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2005 included the operating results of Paramount Parks as well as Viacom Inc., prior to its separation from the Company. Year Ended December 31, 2006 Total Revenues from discontinued operations $ 158.9 Loss from discontinued operations $ (1.3 ) Gain on sale of Paramount Parks 454.8 Earnings from discontinued operations before income taxes 453.5 Provision for income taxes (175.9 ) Net earnings from discontinued operations $ 277.6 Year Ended December 31, 2005 Viacom Inc. Paramount Parks Total Revenues from discontinued operations $ 9,489.1 $ 423.5 $ 9,912.6 Income from discontinued operations $ 2,318.9 $ 52.6 $ 2,371.5 Loss on disposal of discontinued operations (72.9 ) (72.9 ) Minority interest (8.2 ) (8.2 ) Earnings from discontinued operations before income taxes 2,237.8 52.6 2,290.4 Provision for income taxes (1,005.1 ) (13.8 ) (1,018.9 ) Net earnings from discontinued operations $ 1,232.7 $ 38.8 $ 1,271.5 Net Earnings (Loss) For 2007, the Company reported net earnings of $1.25 billion versus net earnings of $1.66 billion in 2006 and a net loss of $7.09 billion in 2005. The loss in 2005 was driven by the non cash impairment charge of $9.48 billion to reduce the carrying value of goodwill. II 11 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Continued) (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Segment Results of Operations For the Years Ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 The tables below present the Companys revenues, segment operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization and impairment charges ("Segment OIBDA before Impairment Charges"), operating income (loss), and depreciation and amortization by segment, for each of the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 Revenues: Television $ 9,274.1 $ 9,487.1 $ 9,325.2 Radio 1,753.7 1,959.9 2,114.8 Outdoor 2,187.3 2,103.4 1,949.3 Publishing 886.1 807.0 763.6 Eliminations (28.3 ) (37.2 ) (39.9 ) Total Revenues $ 14,072.9 $ 14,320.2 $ 14,113.0 Segment OIBDA before Impairment Charges (a): Television $ 1,926.2 $ 1,947.7 $ 1,824.7 Radio 688.7 820.0 925.0 Outdoor 620.9 568.0 469.9 Publishing 97.2 78.0 74.6 Corporate (159.0 ) (162.9 ) (120.5 ) Residual costs (96.5 ) (139.7 ) (118.7 ) Impairment charges (b) (65.2 ) (9,484.4 ) Depreciation and amortization (455.7 ) (439.5 ) (440.1 ) Total Operating Income (Loss) $ 2,621.8 $ 2,606.4 $ (6,869.5 ) Operating Income (Loss): Television (b) $ 1,739.0 $ 1,711.0 $ (4,791.5 ) Radio (b) 657.8 787.4 (2,154.1 ) Outdoor 404.9 351.8 260.5 Publishing 88.1 68.5 66.0 Corporate (171.5 ) (172.6 ) (131.7 ) Residual costs (96.5 ) (139.7 ) (118.7 ) Total Operating Income (Loss) $ 2,621.8 $ 2,606.4 $ (6,869.5 ) Depreciation and Amortization: Television $ 187.2 $ 171.5 $ 178.8 Radio 30.9 32.6 32.1 Outdoor 216.0 216.2 209.4 Publishing 9.1 9.5 8.6 Corporate 12.5 9.7 11.2 Total Depreciation and Amortization $ 455.7 $ 439.5 $ 440.1 (a)The Company presents Segment OIBDA before Impairment Charges as the primary measure of profit and loss for its operating segments in accordance with SFAS No. 131 "Disclosure about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information" ("SFAS 131"). The Company believes the presentation of Segment OIBDA before Impairment Charges is relevant and useful for investors because it allows investors to view segment performance in a manner similar to the primary method used by the Companys management and enhances their ability to understand the Companys operating performance. The reconciliation of Segment OIBDA before Impairment Charges to the Companys consolidated Net Earnings (Loss) is presented in Note 15 (Reportable Segments) to the consolidated financial statements. (b)The Company recorded a non cash impairment charge of $65.2 million in the Television segment during the fourth quarter of 2006 to reduce the carrying value of the allocated goodwill for certain television stations to be disposed. As a result of the Companys annual goodwill and intangible assets impairment tests, a non cash charge of $9.48 billion was recorded in 2005 to reduce the carrying value of goodwill. The 2005 charge of $9.48 billion is comprised of $6.44 billion for the Television segment and $3.05 billion for the Radio segment. II 12 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Continued) (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Segment Results of Operations 2007 vs. 2006 and 2006 vs. 2005 Television (CBS Television Network, CBS Television Stations, CBS Paramount Network Television, CBS Television Distribution, Showtime Networks and CSTV Networks) (Contributed 66% to consolidated revenues for each of the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005.) Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 Revenues $ 9,274.1 $ 9,487.1 $ 9,325.2 OIBDA before impairment charges $ 1,926.2 $ 1,947.7 $ 1,824.7 Impairment charges (65.2 ) (6,437.4 ) Depreciation and amortization (187.2 ) (171.5 ) (178.8 ) Operating income (loss) $ 1,739.0 $ 1,711.0 $ (4,791.5 ) OIBDA before impairment charges as a % of revenues 21% 21% 20% Operating income as a % of revenues 19% 18% NM Capital expenditures $ 216.8 $ 216.5 $ 197.2 NM Not meaningful 2007 vs. 2006 For 2007, Television revenues decreased 2% to $9.27 billion from $9.49 billion in 2006 primarily due to lower television license fee and advertising revenues partially offset by increases in affiliate and home entertainment revenues. Revenues for 2007 were negatively impacted by the absence of UPN which ceased broadcasting in September 2006 and television station divestitures. These two items reduced total 2007 Television revenues by 3% and 2007 Television advertising revenues by 4% versus 2006. Advertising revenues decreased by 3% primarily due to the above mentioned factors and lower political advertising sales partially offset by the 2007 telecast of Super Bowl XLI on CBS Television Network. Television license fee revenues decreased 14% reflecting lower domestic syndication revenues as revenues from 2007 domestic availabilities, including NCIS, did not match contributions from the 2006 basic cable availability and off network syndication of Frasier and cable availability of Star Trek: Voyager. Affiliate revenues increased 4% primarily due to subscriber growth and rate increases at Showtime Networks and CSTV Networks. Home entertainment revenues increased by $118.5 million over 2006 as the Company is in the second year of a third party distribution arrangement which provides the Company with revenues after recoupment of upfront distribution costs incurred by the third party distributor. For 2007, Television reported operating income of $1.74 billion versus $1.71 billion in 2006. Included in 2006 operating income was a non cash impairment charge of $65.2 million to reduce the carrying value of goodwill. Television OIBDA before impairment charges decreased 1% to $1.93 billion in 2007 from $1.95 billion in 2006 principally reflecting lower political advertising sales and lower profits from syndication sales partially offset by higher home entertainment revenues and the absence of $24.0 million of shutdown costs for UPN incurred in 2006. Included in total Television expenses is stock based compensation of $49.6 million and $31.1 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. II 13 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Continued) (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) License fees for completed television programming in syndication and on cable are recorded as revenues in the period that the products are available for exhibition, which, among other reasons, may cause substantial fluctuation in operating results. Unrecognized revenues attributable to such licensing agreements were $582.9 million and $675.5 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. 2006 vs. 2005 For 2006, Television revenues increased 2% to $9.49 billion from $9.33 billion in 2005 primarily due to growth in television license fee and affiliate revenues partially offset by a decrease in home entertainment and advertising revenues. Television license fee revenues increased 26% due to the 2006 domestic syndication sales of CSI: Miami and Without a Trace, the basic cable availability and off network syndication of Frasier, the cable availability of Star Trek: Voyager and higher foreign syndication revenues partially offset by the absence of license fees from the 2005 second cycle cable renewal of Everybody Loves Raymond and lower network license fees. Affiliate revenues increased 8% primarily due to rate increases and subscriber growth at Showtime Networks, and the inclusion of CSTV Networks results since its acquisition in January 2006. Advertising sales decreased 1% primarily due to the shutdown of UPN and decreases at CBS Television Network partially offset by higher political advertising sales. Home entertainment revenues decreased 68% principally due to the switch from self distribution in 2005 to third party distribution in 2006. For 2006, Television reported operating income of $1.71 billion versus an operating loss of $4.79 billion in 2005. Included in 2006 and 2005 operating income were non cash impairment charges of $65.2 million and $6.44 billion, respectively, to reduce the carrying value of goodwill. Television OIBDA before impairment charges increased 7% to $1.95 billion in 2006 from $1.82 billion in 2005. This increase primarily reflects the increases in revenues noted above and lower costs associated with primetime series at CBS Television Network partially offset by higher production costs for the syndication sales of Frasier and CSI: Miami, $24.0 million of UPN shutdown costs and higher stock based compensation. Included in total Television expenses is stock based compensation of $31.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 versus $7.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. Capital expenditures increased $19.3 million to $216.5 million in 2006 from $197.2 million in 2005, principally reflecting increased spending for buildings and technical equipment. Acquisitions On May 30, 2007, the Company acquired Last.fm, a global, community based, music discovery website, for approximately $280 million. Last.fm has been included as part of the Television segment since the date of acquisition. On April 4, 2007, the Company completed the acquisition of MaxPreps, Inc., an online high school sports network, for $43.0 million. MaxPreps, Inc. has been included as part of the Television segment since the date of acquisition. On January 5, 2006, the Company completed the acquisition of CSTV Networks, a cable network and online digital sports media company, for a purchase price of approximately $325 million, comprised of 10.2 million shares of CBS Corp. Class B Common Stock and $52 million in cash. CSTV Networks has been included as part of the Television segment since the date of acquisition. During the second quarter of 2005, the Company acquired KOVR TV, a Sacramento television station, for approximately $285 million. II 14 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Continued) (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Dispositions On January 10, 2008, the Company completed the sale of seven of its owned television stations in Austin, Salt Lake City, Providence and West Palm Beach to Cerberus Capital Management, L.P. for approximately $185 million. In connection with the agreement to sell these stations, a pre tax impairment charge of $65.2 million was recorded on the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2006 to reduce the carrying value of the allocated goodwill. On April 16, 2007, the Company completed an exchange agreement with Liberty Media Corporation under which the stock of a subsidiary of the Company which held CBS Corp.s Green Bay television station and its satellite television station, valued at $64.0 million, and $169.8 million in cash were exchanged for the 7.6 million shares of CBS Corp. Class B Common Stock held by Liberty Media Corporation. On February 26, 2007, the Company completed the sale of its television station in New Orleans for $4.3 million. Restructuring During September 2006, the Company combined the resources of its syndication and distribution operations. As a result, restructuring charges of $11.6 million were recorded in SG&A expenses in the Television segment during the year ended December 31, 2006. The charges reflected severance costs of $9.7 million and legal, lease termination and other expenses of $1.9 million. The Company paid $7.6 million of the restructuring charges during 2007 and $.5 million during 2006, leaving $3.5 million of this restructuring reserve remaining at December 31, 2007. The Company expects to substantially use this reserve by the end of 2008. The CW, a broadcast network and 50/50% joint venture with Warner Bros. Entertainment, was launched in September 2006. As a result, UPN ceased broadcasting at the conclusion of the 2005/2006 broadcast season. In connection with the shutdown of UPN, the Television segment recorded shutdown costs of $24.0 million in SG&A expenses in the second quarter of 2006. The charges reflected costs associated with contract terminations of $13.6 million and severance, legal and other expenses of $10.4 million. The Company paid $3.2 million of the shutdown costs during 2007 and $4.4 million during 2006. Additionally, during the year ended December 31, 2007, the reserve was reduced by $4.1 million due to a contract settlement. The remaining reserve of $12.3 million as of December 31, 2007 principally reflects contractual payments which are expected to be substantially paid through 2010. II 15 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Continued) (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Radio (CBS Radio) (Contributed 12% to consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007, 14% for the year ended December 31, 2006 and 15% for the year ended December 31, 2005.) Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 Revenues $ 1,753.7 $ 1,959.9 $ 2,114.8 OIBDA before impairment charge $ 688.7 $ 820.0 $ 925.0 Impairment charge (3,047.0 ) Depreciation and amortization (30.9 ) (32.6 ) (32.1 ) Operating income (loss) $ 657.8 $ 787.4 $ (2,154.1 ) OIBDA before impairment charge as a % of revenues 39% 42% 44% Operating income as a % of revenues 38% 40% NM Capital expenditures $ 40.4 $ 43.2 $ 37.7 NM Not meaningful 2007 vs. 2006 For 2007, Radio revenues decreased 11% to $1.75 billion from $1.96 billion in 2006 reflecting weakness in advertising sales and the impact of radio station sales in ten markets. The station divestitures negatively impacted the Radio revenue comparison by 5% in 2007. Radio receives affiliation and other fees and consideration for management services provided to Westwood One, an investment of the Company. Revenues from these arrangements totaled $51.6 million in 2007 and $59.1 million in 2006. On October 2, 2007, CBS Radio and Westwood One entered into definitive agreements including, among others, agreements relating to the termination of management and representation arrangements, and modification and extension of certain arrangements involving compensation to the Company, the provision of radio programming (principally news and traffic) by Westwood One to CBS Radio and the distribution by Westwood One of CBS Radio News. The termination, modification and extension of these arrangements are subject to certain closing conditions. For 2007, Radio operating income decreased 16% to $657.8 million from $787.4 million in 2006 and OIBDA decreased 16% to $688.7 million from $820.0 million in 2006. These decreases principally reflected lower advertising sales and the impact of station divestitures partially offset by lower sports programming expenses. Operating expenses, primarily comprised of radio programming and production expenses, decreased 3% in 2007 primarily due to the absence of expenses for divested stations and lower sports programming expenses partially offset by higher employee related costs, contractual increases in music license fees and higher costs associated with digital media. SG&A expenses decreased 9% in 2007 reflecting the absence of expenses for divested stations and lower commissions and employee related costs partially offset by higher stock based compensation expense. Included in total Radio expenses is stock based compensation of $15.9 million and $10.7 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. II 16  Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Continued) (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) 2006 vs. 2005 For 2006, Radio revenues decreased 7% to $1.96 billion from $2.11 billion in 2005, principally reflecting 8% lower advertising sales from decreases in both average unit rates and units sold, resulting from weakness in the overall radio advertising market as well as the impact of programming changes at 27 owned radio stations during 2006. Revenues from arrangements with Westwood One totaled $59.1 million in 2006 and $63.4 million in 2005. For 2006, Radio reported operating income of $787.4 million versus an operating loss of $2.15 billion in 2005, which included a non cash impairment charge of $3.05 billion to reduce the carrying value of goodwill. Radio OIBDA before impairment charges decreased 11% to $820.0 million in 2006 from $925.0 million in 2005, reflecting the revenue decline noted above partially offset by lower expenses. Operating expenses decreased 5% in 2006 principally reflecting lower programming costs, including sports programming. SG&A expenses decreased 3% in 2006 primarily reflecting decreases in professional fees, sales commissions and bad debt expense partially offset by lower gains on disposition of assets in 2006 as compared to 2005. Included in total Radio expenses is stock based compensation of $10.7 million and $2.3 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. Acquisitions During the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company acquired KIFR FM, a San Francisco radio station, for approximately $95 million. Dispositions During 2007, the Company completed the sales of 34 radio stations in nine of its smaller markets for $543.4 million. During 2006, the Company completed the sale of five radio stations in one small market for $125.0 million. Outdoor (CBS Outdoor) (Contributed 16% to consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007, 15% for the year ended December 31, 2006 and 14% for the year ended December 31, 2005.) Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 Revenues $ 2,187.3 $ 2,103.4 $ 1,949.3 OIBDA $ 620.9 $ 568.0 $ 469.9 Depreciation and amortization (216.0 ) (216.2 ) (209.4 ) Operating income $ 404.9 $ 351.8 $ 260.5 OIBDA as a % of revenues 28% 27% 24% Operating income as a % of revenues 19% 17% 13% Capital expenditures $ 186.4 $ 115.7 $ 68.4 II 17 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Continued) (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) 2007 vs. 2006 For 2007, Outdoor revenues increased 4% to $2.19 billion from $2.10 billion in 2006 reflecting an increase of 13% in Europe and Asia, driven by favorable foreign exchange rate changes and growth in the U.K. and France markets, and growth in the U.S. billboard business. Revenues for North America decreased 1% in 2007 as growth of 9% in U.S. billboards, 9% in Canada and 8% in Mexico was more than offset by a decline of 28% in U.S. transit and displays, reflecting the non renewal of marginally profitable transit and street furniture contracts in New York City and Chicago. The non renewal of these contracts negatively impacted the Outdoor revenue comparison by 6% in 2007. The favorable net impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations on total Outdoor revenues was approximately $75 million in 2007. Approximately 48% and 44% of Outdoor revenues were generated from international regions in 2007 and 2006, respectively. For 2007, Outdoor operating income increased 15% to $404.9 million from $351.8 million in 2006 and OIBDA increased 9% to $620.9 million from $568.0 million in 2006, led by growth in North America. North America operating income and OIBDA increased 23% to $336.5 million and 13% to $518.4 million, respectively, due to strength in the U.S. billboard business. Europe and Asia operating income and OIBDA decreased 13% to $68.4 million and 5% to $102.5 million, respectively, reflecting higher transit costs, principally in the U.K., partially offset by the revenue growth and the favorable impact of foreign exchange rate changes. Total Outdoor operating expenses increased 1% in 2007 primarily due to the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rate changes on expenses and increased costs for maintenance and materials, partially offset by lower transit costs. The decrease in transit costs reflected lower costs in the U.S. due to the previously mentioned non renewal of certain contracts partially offset by increases in the U.K. SG&A expenses increased 6% in 2007 reflecting the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rate changes on expenses and higher bad debt expense and professional fees. Included in total Outdoor expenses is stock based compensation of $5.3 million and $3.2 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. Capital expenditures increased $70.7 million to $186.4 million in 2007 principally reflecting increased spending for transit contracts in the U.K. 2006 vs. 2005 For 2006, Outdoor revenues increased 8% to $2.10 billion in 2006 from $1.95 billion in 2005 led by growth of 9% in North America and 5% in Europe and Asia. North America results reflected growth of 11% in U.S. billboards, 8% in Canada and 14% in Mexico. Results in Europe and Asia were principally driven by growth in the U.K., Italy and China markets. The favorable net impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations on Outdoor revenues was approximately $18 million in 2006. Approximately 44% and 45% of Outdoor revenues were generated from international regions in 2006 and 2005, respectively. Outdoor operating income increased 35% to $351.8 million in 2006 from $260.5 million in 2005, and OIBDA increased 21% to $568.0 million in 2006 from $469.9 million in 2005, reflecting the revenue increase noted above partially offset by higher expenses. Operating expenses increased 3% in 2006 primarily due to higher transit and billboard lease costs and the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rate changes, partially offset by the absence of the impact of 2005 hurricanes. SG&A expenses increased 6% in 2006 due to higher employee related expenses and the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rate changes offset in part by lower professional fees and bad debt expense. Included in total Outdoor expenses is stock based compensation of $3.2 million and $.6 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. II 18 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Continued) (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Acquisitions On October 5, 2007, the Company completed the acquisition of SignStorey, Inc., a distributor of video programming and advertising content to retail stores, for $71.5 million. SignStorey, Inc. has been renamed CBS Outernet and has been included as part of the Outdoor segment since the date of acquisition. Publishing (Simon & Schuster) (Contributed 6% to consolidated revenues for each of the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, and 5% for the year ended December 31, 2005.) Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 Revenues $ 886.1 $ 807.0 $ 763.6 OIBDA $ 97.2 $ 78.0 $ 74.6 Depreciation and amortization (9.1 ) (9.5 ) (8.6 ) Operating income $ 88.1 $ 68.5 $ 66.0 OIBDA as a % of revenues 11% 10% 10% Operating income as a % of revenues 10% 8% 9% Capital expenditures $ 12.0 $ 5.8 $ 4.2 2007 vs. 2006 For 2007, Publishing revenues increased 10% to $886.1 million from $807.0 million in 2006 primarily reflecting higher sales in the Adult and International groups, led by the performance of the best seller The Secret by Rhonda Byrne. Additional best selling titles in 2007 included YOU: Staying Young by Michael F. Roizen and Mehmet C. Oz and Become A Better You by Joel Osteen. For 2007, Publishing operating income increased 29% to $88.1 million from $68.5 million in 2006 and OIBDA increased 25% to $97.2 million from $78.0 million in 2006. These increases reflected the revenue growth noted above partially offset by higher expenses. Operating expenses increased 9% in 2007 due to higher production costs and royalty expenses resulting from the revenue increase and the mix of titles. SG&A expenses increased 5% in 2007 reflecting increased employee related costs, digital archive costs, and higher volume driven advertising and selling expenses partially offset by lower bad debt expense. Included in total Publishing expenses is stock based compensation of $3.5 million and $1.9 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. 2006 vs. 2005 For 2006, Publishing revenues increased 6% to $807.0 million from $763.6 million in 2005 led by higher book sales, primarily in the Adult and International groups, as well as higher distribution fee income. Top selling titles in 2006 included YOU: On a Diet by Michael F. Roizen and Mehmet C. Oz, Liseys Story by Stephen King and State of Denial by Bob Woodward. Publishing operating income increased 4% to $68.5 million in 2006 from $66.0 million in 2005 and OIBDA increased 5% to $78.0 million in 2006 from $74.6 million in 2005 reflecting the revenue increases noted above partially offset by higher expenses. Operating expenses increased 3% in 2006 due to higher production, return, and freight and delivery costs partially offset by lower royalty expenses. SG&A II 19 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Continued) (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) expenses increased 16% in 2006 primarily resulting from an increase in bad debt expense and higher selling and marketing, and employee related costs. Included in total Publishing expenses is stock based compensation of $1.9 million and $.5 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. Financial Position Current assets decreased by $2.11 billion to $6.03 billion at December 31, 2007 from $8.14 billion at December 31, 2006 primarily due to decreases in cash and cash equivalents of $1.73 billion and receivables of $146.0 million. The decrease in cash and cash equivalents principally reflected the purchase of Company common stock for $3.35 billion and dividend payments, partially offset by cash flow from operations. The decrease in receivables is primarily due to a decrease in syndication revenues as well as radio and television station divestitures. The allowance for doubtful accounts as a percentage of receivables was 5.0% at December 31, 2007 compared with 5.1% at December 31, 2006. Net property and equipment increased by $107.7 million to $2.92 billion at December 31, 2007 from $2.81 billion at December 31, 2006 reflecting capital expenditures of $469.1 million partially offset by depreciation expense of $359.5 million. Goodwill of $18.45 billion at December 31, 2007 decreased $369.5 million from $18.82 billion at December 31, 2006, primarily reflecting television and radio station divestitures and certain tax related purchase accounting adjustments, partially offset by acquisitions and foreign currency translation adjustments. Intangible assets, principally consisting of FCC licenses, and leasehold and franchise agreements, decreased by $343.7 million to $10.08 billion at December 31, 2007 from $10.43 billion at December 31, 2006, primarily due to television and radio station divestitures of $275.5 million and amortization expense of $96.2 million. Pension and postretirement benefit obligations decreased by $297.4 million to $1.70 billion at December 31, 2007 from $1.99 billion at December 31, 2006 primarily due to a $150.0 million discretionary contribution in 2007 to pre fund the Companys qualified pension plans and actuarial gains in 2007. Noncurrent deferred income tax liabilities, net decreased by $363.5 million to $1.95 billion at December 31, 2007 from $2.31 billion at December 31, 2006, primarily due to purchase accounting adjustments. Cash Flows Cash and cash equivalents decreased by $1.73 billion for the year ended December 31, 2007. The change in cash and cash equivalents was as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 Cash provided by (used for) operating activities from: Continuing operations $ 2,180.4 $ 2,002.5 $ 1,822.3 Discontinued operations 4.8 (114.1 ) 1,714.7 Cash provided by operating activities 2,185.2 1,888.4 3,537.0 Cash (used for) provided by investing activities from: Continuing operations (135.1 ) 849.5 4,981.5 Discontinued operations (34.5 ) (213.7 ) Cash (used for) provided by investing activities (135.1 ) 815.0 4,767.8 Cash used for financing activities from: Continuing operations (3,777.8 ) (1,284.1 ) (7,151.8 ) Discontinued operations (425.9 ) Cash used for financing activities (3,777.8 ) (1,284.1 ) (7,577.7 ) Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents $ (1,727.7 ) $ 1,419.3 $ 727.1 II 20 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Continued) (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Operating Activities. In 2007, cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations increased $177.9 million, or 9%, to $2.18 billion from $2.00 billion in 2006 principally reflecting a $150.0 million discretionary contribution made during 2007 to pre fund the Companys qualified pension plans versus contributions of $250.0 million in 2006, lower cash taxes paid and lower net cash interest. In 2006, cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations increased $180.2 million, or 10%, to $2.00 billion from $1.82 billion in 2005 principally reflecting higher earnings after adjusting for non cash items, including the impairment charges and stock based compensation. These increases were partially offset by higher taxes paid in 2006 and lower cash inflows from net changes in operating assets and liabilities, principally reflecting $250.0 million of discretionary contributions made during 2006 to pre fund the Companys qualified pension plans. Cash paid for income taxes from continuing operations was $524.9 million for 2007, $562.2 million for 2006 and $493.4 million for 2005. Cash taxes for 2008 are anticipated to be in the range of $550 million to $600 million. Investing Activities. In 2007, cash used for investing activities of $135.1 million principally reflected capital expenditures of $469.1 million, acquisitions of $410.0 million, primarily consisting of the acquisitions of Last.fm, MaxPreps, Inc., SignStorey, Inc. and other outdoor advertising properties, and investments in investee companies of $42.3 million, principally reflecting the investment in several new interactive initiatives and The CW. These increases were partially offset by proceeds from dispositions of $562.2 million, primarily from the radio station divestitures, and net receipts of $172.5 million from Viacom Inc. related to the Separation. In 2006, cash provided by investing activities from continuing operations of $849.5 million reflected proceeds from the sale of Paramount Parks of $1.24 billion and proceeds from other dispositions of $142.5 million, principally reflecting the sale of five radio stations in the Buffalo market. These proceeds were partially offset by capital expenditures of $394.1 million, investments in investee companies of $110.0 million, principally consisting of the Companys investment in The CW, and acquisitions of $97.9 million primarily consisting of the acquisition of CSTV Networks and outdoor advertising properties. Capital expenditures increased $75.0 million, or 19%, to $469.1 million in 2007 from $394.1 million in 2006 principally reflecting increased spending for Outdoor transit contracts in the U.K. Capital expenditures increased $67.1 million, or 21%, to $394.1 million in 2006 from $327.0 million in 2005 principally reflecting spending for outdoor advertising structures, buildings and technical equipment. In 2005, cash provided by investing activities from continuing operations of $4.98 billion reflected the $5.4 billion special dividend received from Viacom Inc. as well as proceeds from dispositions of $279.6 million, principally reflecting the sale of television and radio stations. These proceeds were partially offset by capital expenditures of $327.0 million and acquisitions of $462.9 million, primarily reflecting the acquisitions of KOVR TV and KIFR FM. For 2007, capital expenditures were $469.1 million, which includes spending for Outdoor of $186.4 million. For 2008, capital expenditures for the Company are anticipated to be in the range of $500 million to $550 million, principally reflecting increases for high definition television upgrades and other information technology spending. Capital expenditures for Outdoor in 2008 are currently expected to be comparable to 2007; however, spending could vary based on successful bids for new Outdoor contracts. Financing Activities. In 2007, cash flow used for financing activities of $3.78 billion principally reflected the purchase of Company common stock for $3.35 billion, the repayment of notes of $660.0 million and dividend payments of $640.3 million, partially offset by proceeds from the issuance of notes of $678.0 million and proceeds from the exercise of stock options of $201.7 million. In 2006, cash flow used for financing activities of $1.28 billion principally reflected the repayment of notes of $832.0 million and dividend payments of $519.1 million, partially offset by proceeds of $91.1 million from II 21 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Continued) (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) the exercise of stock options. In 2005, cash flow used for financing activities from continuing operations of $7.15 billion principally reflected the purchase of Company common stock for $5.56 billion, repayment of notes and debentures of $1.44 billion and dividend payments of $451.3 million. These uses were partially offset by proceeds from the exercise of stock options of $317.5 million. Dividends The Company declared a quarterly cash dividend on its Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock during each of the four quarters of 2007 and 2006 resulting in total dividends of $667.1 million and $573.2 million, respectively. On February 21, 2008, the Company announced a quarterly cash dividend of $.25 per share on its Class A and Class B Common Stock payable on April 1, 2008. During each of the four quarters of 2005, Former Viacom declared a cash dividend on its class A and class B common stock resulting in total dividends of $440.9 million. Dividends have been recorded as a reduction to "Additional paid in capital" on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as the Company has an accumulated deficit balance. Purchase of Company Stock During 2007, the Company repurchased 106.9 million shares of CBS Corp. Common Stock for $3.42 billion, including $64.0 million of non cash purchases related to a television station exchange (see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements), primarily through two accelerated share repurchase ("ASR") transactions. In January 2008, the Company received 6.0 million shares of CBS Corp. Class B Common Stock upon settlement of the second ASR. During 2006, the Company purchased .2 million shares of its Class B Common Stock that were surrendered by employees to the Company to satisfy their tax withholding obligations from the payment of shares related to the vesting of RSUs. During 2005, Former Viacom purchased 79.6 million shares of class B common stock for $5.46 billion through its $8.0 billion share purchase program. Acquisitions and Dispositions Acquisitions On October 5, 2007, the Company completed the acquisition of SignStorey, Inc., a distributor of video programming and advertising content to retail stores, for $71.5 million. SignStorey, Inc. has been renamed CBS Outernet and has been included as part of the Outdoor segment since the date of acquisition. On May 30, 2007, the Company acquired Last.fm, a global, community based, music discovery website, for approximately $280 million. Last.fm has been included as part of the Television segment since the date of acquisition. On April 4, 2007, the Company completed the acquisition of MaxPreps, Inc., an online high school sports network, for $43.0 million. MaxPreps, Inc. has been included as part of the Television segment since the date of acquisition. On January 5, 2006, the Company completed the acquisition of CSTV Networks, a cable network and online digital sports media company, for a purchase price of approximately $325 million, comprised of 10.2 million shares of CBS Corp. Class B Common Stock and $52 million in cash. CSTV Networks has been included as part of the Television segment since the date of acquisition. II 22  Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Continued) (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) During the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company acquired KIFR FM, a San Francisco radio station, for approximately $95 million. During the second quarter of 2005, the Company acquired KOVR TV, a Sacramento television station, for approximately $285 million. Dispositions On January 10, 2008, the Company completed the sale of seven of its owned television stations in Austin, Salt Lake City, Providence and West Palm Beach to Cerberus Capital Management, L.P. for approximately $185 million. In connection with the agreement to sell these stations, a pre tax impairment charge of $65.2 million was recorded on the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2006 to reduce the carrying value of the allocated goodwill. On April 16, 2007, the Company completed an exchange agreement with Liberty Media Corporation under which the stock of a subsidiary of the Company which held CBS Corp.s Green Bay television station and its satellite television station, valued at $64.0 million, and $169.8 million in cash was exchanged for the 7.6 million shares of CBS Corp. Class B Common Stock held by Liberty Media Corporation. On February 26, 2007, the Company completed the sale of its television station in New Orleans for $4.3 million. During 2007, the Company completed the sales of 34 radio stations in nine of its smaller markets for $543.4 million. During 2006, the Company completed the sale of five radio stations in one small market for $125.0 million. On June 30, 2006, the Company completed the sale of Paramount Parks to Cedar Fair, L.P. for $1.24 billion in cash. Capital Structure At December 31, 2007 2006 Notes payable to banks $ 5.3 $ 3.1 Senior debt (4.625% 8.875% due 2007 2056) 7,015.7 7,006.2 Other notes .8 .8 Obligations under capital leases 108.9 115.2 Total debt 7,130.7 7,125.3 Less discontinued operations debt (a) 43.0 83.0 Total debt from continuing operations 7,087.7 7,042.3 Less current portion 19.1 15.0 Total long term debt from continuing operations, net of current portion $ 7,068.6 $ 7,027.3 (a)Included in "Liabilities of discontinued operations" on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Total debt of $7.13 billion at December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006 was 25% and 23%, respectively, as a percentage of the total capitalization of the Company. The senior debt of CBS Corp. is fully and unconditionally guaranteed by its wholly owned subsidiary, CBS Operations Inc. Senior debt in the amount of $52.2 million of the Companys wholly owned subsidiary, CBS Broadcasting Inc., is not guaranteed. II 23 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Continued) (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) As of December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006, the Companys debt balances included (i) a net unamortized premium of $26.2 million and $29.1 million, respectively, and (ii) a decrease in the carrying value of the debt relating to fair value hedges of $5.0 million and $17.5 million, respectively. On March 27, 2007, CBS Corp. issued $700.0 million of 6.750% senior notes due 2056. Interest on these senior notes is payable quarterly. The senior notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by CBS Operations Inc. and are redeemable, at the Companys option, at any time on or after March 27, 2012, at their principal amount plus accrued interest. For the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, the following debt repurchases and maturities occurred: Debt Repurchases During 2006, the Company repurchased $50.0 million of its 6.625% senior notes due 2011 and $52.2 million of its 7.70% senior notes due 2010, resulting in a pre tax loss on early extinguishment of debt of $6.0 million. Debt Maturities May 1, 2007, 5.625% senior notes, $700.0 million January 30, 2006, 6.40% senior notes, $800.0 million At December 31, 2007, the Companys scheduled maturities of long term debt at face value, including discontinued operations debt and excluding capital leases were as follows: 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 and Thereafter Long term debt $ 3.8 $ .9 $ 1,585.5 $ 950.1 $ 849.8 $ 3,610.5 Credit Facility As of December 31, 2007, the Company had a $3.0 billion revolving credit facility due December 2010 (the "Credit Facility"). The Company, at its option, may also borrow in certain foreign currencies up to specified limits under the Credit Facility. Borrowing rates under the facility are determined at the Companys option at the time of each borrowing and are based generally on the prime rate in the United States or the London Interbank Offer Rate ("LIBOR") plus a margin based on the Companys senior unsecured debt rating. The Company pays a facility fee based on the total amount of the commitments. As of December 31, 2007, the remaining availability under this Credit Facility, net of outstanding letters of credit, was $2.81 billion. The Credit Facility contains covenants, which, among other things, require that the Company maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio. At December 31, 2007, the Company was in compliance with all covenants under the Credit Facility. The primary purpose of the Credit Facility is to support commercial paper borrowings. At December 31, 2007, the Company had no commercial paper borrowings under its $3.0 billion commercial paper program. II 24 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Continued) (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Accounts Receivable Securitization Program As of December 31, 2007, the Company had $550.0 million outstanding under its revolving receivable securitization program. The program results in the sale of receivables on a non recourse basis to unrelated third parties on a one year renewable basis, thereby reducing accounts receivable on the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheets. The Company entered into this arrangement because it provides an additional source of liquidity. Proceeds from this program were used to reduce outstanding borrowings. The terms of the revolving securitization arrangement require that the receivable pools subject to the program meet certain performance ratios. As of December 31, 2007, the Company was in compliance with the required ratios under the receivable securitization program. At December 31, 2006, the Company had $550.0 million outstanding under its revolving receivable securitization programs. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company believes that its operating cash flows from continuing operations ($2.18 billion in 2007), cash and cash equivalents ($1.35 billion at December 31, 2007), borrowing capacity under its committed bank facility (which consisted of an unused revolving Credit Facility of $2.81 billion at December 31, 2007), and access to capital markets are sufficient to fund its operating needs, including commitments and contingencies, capital and investing commitments, dividends and other financing requirements for the foreseeable future. The funding for commitments to purchase sports programming rights, television and film programming, and talent contracts will come primarily from cash flow from operations. The Company continually projects anticipated cash requirements, which include capital expenditures, dividends, acquisitions and principal payments on its outstanding indebtedness, as well as cash flows generated from operating activities available to meet these needs. Any additional net cash funding requirements are financed with short term borrowings (primarily commercial paper) and long term debt. Commercial paper borrowings, which also accommodate day to day changes in funding requirements, are backed by the Credit Facility that may be utilized in the event that commercial paper borrowings are not available. The Companys credit position affords sufficient access to the capital markets to meet the Companys financial requirements. The Company anticipates that future debt maturities will be funded with cash and cash equivalents, and cash flows generated from operating activities and other debt financing. There are no provisions in any of the Companys material financing agreements that would cause an acceleration of the obligation in the event of a downgrade in the Companys debt ratings. The Company filed a shelf registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission registering debt securities, preferred stock and warrants of CBS Corp. that may be issued for aggregate gross proceeds of $5.0 billion. The registration statement was first declared effective on January 8, 2001. The net proceeds from the sale of the offered securities may be used by CBS Corp. for general corporate purposes, including repayment of borrowings, working capital and capital expenditures, or for such other purposes as may be specified in the applicable prospectus supplement. To date, the Company has issued $3.085 billion of securities under the shelf registration statement. II 25 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Continued) (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Contractual Obligations As of December 31, 2007, the Companys significant contractual obligations, including payments due by period, were as follows: Payments Due by Period Total 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 and thereafter Programming and talent commitments (1) $ 11,413.5 $ 3,458.2 $ 4,470.7 $ 2,713.1 $ 771.5 Guaranteed minimum franchise payments (2) $ 2,839.1 $ 444.0 $ 817.1 $ 720.1 $ 857.9 Purchase obligations (3) $ 506.7 $ 188.9 $ 158.1 $ 68.9 $ 90.8 Operating leases (4) $ 2,288.2 $ 329.9 $ 566.8 $ 402.0 $ 989.5 Other long term contractual obligations (5) $ 841.1 $ $ 638.2 $ 174.8 $ 28.1 Long term debt obligations (6) $ 7,000.6 $ 3.8 $ 1,586.4 $ 1,799.9 $ 3,610.5 Interest commitments on long term debt (7) $ 7,633.8 $ 497.9 $ 939.0 $ 620.6 $ 5,576.3 Capital lease obligations (including interest) (8) $ 139.9 $ 22.0 $ 35.0 $ 32.9 $ 50.0 (1)Programming and talent commitments of the Company primarily include $7.47 billion for sports programming rights, $2.47 billion relating to television, radio, and film production and licensing and $973.2 million for talent contracts. (2)Outdoor has franchise rights entitling it to display advertising on media including billboards, transit shelters, buses, rail systems (in car, station platforms and terminals), mall kiosks, stadium signage and in retail stores. Under most of these franchise agreements, the franchisor is entitled to receive the greater of a percentage of the relevant advertising revenues, net of advertising agency fees, or a specified guaranteed minimum annual payment. (3)Purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including open purchase orders. (4)Consists of long term operating lease commitments for office space, billboards, equipment, transponders and studio facilities, including approximately $1.26 billion of billboard lease commitments that are cancelable, in certain circumstances, at the Companys option. (5)Long term contractual obligations including program liabilities, participations due to producers and residuals. (6)Long term debt obligations are presented at face value, including discontinued operations debt. (7)Future interest based on scheduled debt maturities, excluding capital leases. (8)Includes capital leases for satellite transponders. The table above excludes $328.9 million of reserves for uncertain tax positions and the related accrued interest and penalties under FIN 48, as the Company cannot reasonably predict the ultimate amount or timing of cash payments relating to the settlement of these reserves. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Prior to the Separation of Former Viacom into CBS Corp. and Viacom Inc., Former Viacom had entered into guarantees with respect to obligations related to Blockbuster Inc. ("Blockbuster"), including certain Blockbuster store leases; Famous Players theater leases; certain UCI theater leases; and certain theater leases related to W.F. Cinema Holdings L.P. and Graumans Theatres LLC. In connection with the Separation, Viacom Inc. has agreed to indemnify the Company with respect to these guarantees. In addition, the Company and Viacom Inc. have agreed to indemnify each other with respect to certain other matters pursuant to the Separation Agreement between the parties. The Company has indemnification obligations with respect to letters of credit and surety bonds primarily used as security against non performance in the normal course of business. At December 31, 2007, the outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds approximated $402.8 million and were not recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. II 26 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Continued) (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) In the course of its business, the Company both provides and receives indemnities which are intended to allocate certain risks associated with business transactions. Similarly, the Company may remain contingently liable for various obligations of a business that has been divested in the event that a third party does not live up to its obligations under an indemnification obligation. The Company records a liability for its indemnification obligations and other contingent liabilities when probable under generally accepted accounting principles. Critical Accounting Policies Financial Reporting Release No. 60, "Cautionary Advice Regarding Disclosure About Critical Accounting Policies" ("FRR 60"), suggests companies provide additional disclosure and commentary on those accounting policies considered most critical. FRR 60 considers an accounting policy to be critical if it is important to the Companys financial condition and results of operations, and requires significant judgment and estimates on the part of management in its application. For a summary of the Companys significant accounting policies, including the critical accounting policies discussed below, see the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. The preparation of the Companys financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amount of expenses during the reporting period. On an ongoing basis, the Company evaluates its estimates, which are based on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. The result of these evaluations forms the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities and the reported amount of expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions. The following accounting policies require significant management judgments and estimates. The Company accounts for the production and distribution of television programming in accordance with Statement of Position 00 2 "Accounting by Producers or Distributors of Films" ("SOP 00 2"). SOP 00 2 requires managements judgment as it relates to the timing of the establishment of a secondary market for its television programming, and total estimated revenues to be earned and costs to be incurred throughout the life of each television program. These estimates are used to determine the amortization of capitalized television programming, expensing of participation costs, and any necessary net realizable value adjustments to capitalized television programming costs. For each television program, management bases these estimates on the performance of the television programming in the initial markets, the existence of future firm commitments to sell additional episodes of the program, and the past performance of similar television programs. These estimates are updated regularly based on information available as the television program progresses through its life cycle. Overestimating secondary market revenues or a failure to adjust for a downward change in the total estimated revenue could result in the understatement of the amortization of capitalized television programming costs, future net realizable value adjustments and impact the determination of participation expense. The Company accounts for its business acquisitions under the purchase method of accounting. The total cost of acquisitions is allocated to the underlying net assets, based on their respective estimated fair values. The excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the tangible and identifiable intangible net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed requires managements judgment and often involves the use II 27 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Continued) (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) of significant estimates and assumptions, including assumptions with respect to future cash inflows and outflows, discount rates, asset lives, and market multiples, among other items. In accordance with SFAS 142, the Company tests goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment during the fourth quarter of each year, and on an interim date should factors or indicators become apparent that would require an interim test. A significant downward revision in the present value of estimated future cash flows for a reporting unit or intangible assets could result in an impairment under SFAS 142, and a non cash charge would be required. Such a charge could have a material effect on reported net earnings. Balance sheet reserves and liabilities related to legal issues, restructuring charges and discontinued businesses, including asbestos and environmental matters, require significant judgments and estimates by management. The Company continually evaluates these estimates based on changes in the relevant facts and circumstances and events that may impact estimates. While management believes that the current reserves for matters related to predecessor operations of the Company, including environmental and asbestos, are adequate, there can be no assurance that circumstances will not change in future periods. Pension benefit obligations and net periodic pension costs are calculated using many actuarial assumptions. Two key assumptions used in accounting for pension liabilities and expenses are the discount rate and expected rate of return on plan assets. The discount rate reflects the rate at which the pension benefit obligations could effectively be settled. The Company determined the discount rate by projecting the plans expected future benefit payments as defined for the projected benefit obligation. Those projected benefit payments are used to construct a high quality bond portfolio with interest and principal payments that provide the cash flows necessary to meet the projected benefit payments. The projected benefit payments are discounted by the weighted average yield of the bond portfolio. The expected return on plan assets assumption was derived using the current and expected asset allocation of the pension plan assets and considering historical as well as expected returns on various classes of plan assets. For 2007, the unrecognized actuarial losses decreased primarily due to an increase in the discount rate partially offset by lower than expected return from plan assets. For 2006, the unrecognized actuarial losses decreased primarily due to an increase in the discount rate as well as higher than expected return from plan assets. A decrease in the discount rate or a decrease in the expected rate of return on plan assets would increase pension expense. The estimated impact of a 25 basis point change in the discount rate would be a change of approximately $5 million on 2008 pension expense and will change the projected benefit obligation by approximately $110 million. The estimated impact of a 25 basis point change in the expected rate of return on plan assets is a change of approximately $10 million in 2008 pension expense. The Company is subject to income taxes in both the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining the worldwide provision for income taxes. When recording the worldwide provision for income taxes, an estimated effective tax rate for a year is applied to interim operating results. In the event there is a significant or unusual item recognized in the quarterly operating results, the tax attributable to that item is separately calculated and recorded in the same quarter. A number of years may elapse before a tax return containing tax matters, for which a reserve has been established, is audited and finally resolved. During 2007 and 2006, the Company recognized tax benefits of $8.0 million and $164.1 million, respectively, related to the settlement of certain prior year tax audits. In accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109" ("FIN 48"), the Company evaluates a tax position to II 28 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Continued) (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) determine whether it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained upon examination, based on the technical merits of the position. A tax position that meets the more likely than not recognition threshold is subject to a measurement assessment to determine the amount of benefit to recognize in the Consolidated Statement of Operations and the appropriate reserve to establish, if any. If a tax position does not meet the more likely than not recognition threshold a tax reserve is established and no benefit is recognized. The Company is continually audited by U.S. federal and state as well as foreign tax authorities. While it is often difficult to predict the final outcome or the timing of resolution of any particular tax matter, the Company believes that its reserve for uncertain tax positions of $278.8 million at December 31, 2007 is properly recorded pursuant to the recognition and measurement provisions of FIN 48. In accordance with SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004) "Share Based Payment" ("SFAS 123R"), the Company measures the cost of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the grant date fair value of the award. That cost is recognized over the vesting period during which an employee is required to provide service in exchange for the award. For each award of employee stock options the fair value is estimated on the date of grant using the Black Scholes option pricing model. The determination of the assumptions used in the Black Scholes model requires management to make significant judgments and estimates. The use of different assumptions and estimates in the Black Scholes option pricing model could have a material impact on the estimated fair value of option grants and the related expense. The risk free interest rate is based on a U.S. Treasury rate in effect on the date of grant with a term equal to the expected life. The expected term was determined based on historical employee exercise and post vesting termination behavior. The expected dividend yield is based on the then current annual dividend rate. When calculating expected stock price volatility, the Company placed exclusive reliance on implied volatility due to the limited amount of trading history for CBS Corp. Class B Common Stock. In addition, given the existence of an actively traded market for CBS Corp. options, the Company was able to derive implied volatility using publicly traded options to purchase CBS Corp. Class B Common Stock that were trading near the grant date of the employee stock options at a similar exercise price and a remaining term of greater than one year. Although there is an active market for these publicly traded CBS Corp. options, the Company believes that due to their short trading history, the volatility of these options alone may not be indicative of expected volatility. As a result, the expected stock price volatility was determined using an average of the implied volatility of these options and the implied volatility of publicly traded options for entities with similar business characteristics within the Companys industry. Legal Matters Shareholder Derivative Lawsuits. Two shareholder derivative lawsuits, consolidated as In re Viacom Inc. Shareholders Derivative Litigation, were filed in July 2005 in New York State Supreme Court relating to executive compensation and alleged corporate waste. The actions named each member of Former Viacoms Board of Directors at the time the actions were filed, the two former Co Presidents and Co Chief Operating Officers of Former Viacom, and, as a nominal defendant, Former Viacom, alleging that the 2004 compensation of such officers and the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Former Viacom was improper. In January 2007, a new shareholder derivative action was filed in New York Supreme Court, which contained allegations similar to those in the earlier actions, and was consolidated with In re Viacom Inc. Shareholders Derivative Litigation. In April 2007, following notice to shareholders, the parties executed a Stipulation of Settlement, which resolved all of these actions. By order and final judgment entered December 3, 2007, the court approved the Stipulation of Settlement and dismissed the action with prejudice. The Company and Viacom Inc. have agreed to equally share all costs and expenses relating to this matter. II 29  Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Continued) (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Claims Related to Former Businesses: Asbestos, Environmental and Other. The Company is a defendant in lawsuits claiming various personal injuries related to asbestos and other materials, which allegedly occurred principally as a result of exposure caused by various products manufactured by Westinghouse, a predecessor, generally prior to the early 1970s. Westinghouse was neither a producer nor a manufacturer of asbestos. The Company is typically named as one of a large number of defendants in both state and federal cases. In the majority of asbestos lawsuits, the plaintiffs have not identified which of the Companys products is the basis of a claim. Claims against the Company in which a product has been identified principally relate to exposures allegedly caused by asbestos containing insulating material in turbines sold for power generation, industrial and marine use, or by asbestos containing grades of decorative micarta, a laminate used in commercial ships. Claims are frequently filed and or settled in large groups, which may make the amount and timing of settlements, and the number of pending claims, subject to significant fluctuation from period to period. The Company does not report as pending those claims on inactive, stayed, deferred or similar dockets which some jurisdictions have established for claimants who allege minimal or no impairment. As of December 31, 2007, the Company had pending approximately 72,120 asbestos claims, as compared with approximately 73,310 as of December 31, 2006 and approximately 101,170 as of December 31, 2005. Of the claims pending as of December 31, 2007, approximately 40,520 were pending in state courts, 28,100 in federal courts and, additionally, approximately 3,500 were third party claims pending in state courts. During 2007, the Company received approximately 4,590 new claims and closed or moved to an inactive docket approximately 5,780 claims. The Company reports claims as closed when it becomes aware that a dismissal order has been entered by a court or when the Company has reached agreement with the claimants on the material terms of a settlement. Settlement costs depend on the seriousness of the injuries that form the basis of the claim, the quality of evidence supporting the claims and other factors. The Companys total costs for the years 2007 and 2006 for settlement and defense of asbestos claims after insurance recoveries and net of tax benefits were approximately $17.5 million and $5.7 million, respectively. The Companys costs for settlement and defense of asbestos claims may vary year to year as insurance proceeds are not always recovered in the same period as the insured portion of the expenses. Filings include claims for individuals suffering from mesothelioma, a rare cancer, the risk of which is allegedly increased primarily by exposure to asbestos; lung cancer, a cancer which may be caused by various factors, one of which is alleged to be asbestos exposure; other cancers, and conditions that are substantially less serious, including claims brought on behalf of individuals who are asymptomatic as to an allegedly asbestos related disease. Claims identified as cancer remain a small percentage of asbestos claims pending at December 31, 2007. In a substantial number of the pending claims, the plaintiff has not yet identified the claimed injury. The Company believes that its reserves and insurance are adequate to cover its asbestos liabilities. The Company from time to time receives claims from federal and state environmental regulatory agencies and other entities asserting that it is or may be liable for environmental cleanup costs and related damages principally relating to historical and predecessor operations of the Company. In addition, the Company from time to time receives personal injury claims including toxic tort and product liability claims (other than asbestos) arising from historical operations of the Company and its predecessors. Indecency Regulation. In March 2006, the FCC released certain decisions relating to indecency complaints against certain of the Companys owned television stations and affiliated stations. The FCC ordered the Company to pay a forfeiture of $550,000 in the proceeding relating to the broadcast of a Super Bowl half time show by the Companys television stations. In May 2006, the FCC denied the Companys petition for reconsideration. In July 2006, the Company filed a Petition for Review of the forfeiture with II 30 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Continued) (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit and paid the $550,000 forfeiture in order to facilitate the Companys ability to bring the appeal. Oral argument was heard in September 2007. The Company is awaiting the courts decision. In March 2006, the FCC also notified the Company and certain affiliates of the CBS Television Network of apparent liability for forfeitures relating to a broadcast of the program Without a Trace. The FCC proposed to assess a forfeiture of $32,500 against each of these stations, totaling $260,000 for the Companys owned stations. The Company is contesting the FCC decision and the proposed forfeitures. In June 2007, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit vacated the FCCs November 2006 finding that the broadcast of fleeting and isolated expletives on another broadcast network was indecent and remanded the case to the FCC. In November 2007, the FCC sought review of the courts decision with the U.S. Supreme Court, which petition for review is pending. On February 1, 2008, the Company and others filed oppositions to the FCCs petition. Additionally, the Company, from time to time, has received and may receive in the future letters of inquiry from the FCC prompted by complaints alleging that certain programming on the Companys broadcasting stations included indecent material. General. On an ongoing basis, the Company defends itself in numerous lawsuits and proceedings and responds to various investigations and inquiries from federal, state and local authorities (collectively, "litigation"). Litigation is inherently uncertain and always difficult to predict. However, based on its understanding and evaluation of the relevant facts and circumstances, the Company believes that the above described legal matters and other litigation to which it is a party are not likely, in the aggregate, to have a material adverse effect on its results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Under the Separation Agreement between the Company and Viacom Inc., the Company and Viacom Inc. have agreed to defend and indemnify the other in certain litigation in which the Company and or Viacom Inc. is named. Market Risk The Company is exposed to market risk related to foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. The Company uses derivative financial instruments to modify its exposure to market risks from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. In accordance with its policy, the Company does not use derivative instruments unless there is an underlying exposure and, therefore, the Company does not hold or enter into derivative financial instruments for speculative trading purposes. Foreign Exchange Risk The Company conducts business with companies in various countries outside the United States, resulting in exposure to movements in foreign exchange rates when translating from the foreign local currency to the U.S. dollar. In order to hedge anticipated cash flows and foreign currency balances in currencies such as the British Pound, the Euro, the Canadian Dollar, the Mexican Peso and the Australian Dollar, foreign currency forward and option contracts are used. Additionally, the Company designates forward contracts used to hedge projected future production costs as cash flow hedges, and may designate certain forward contracts as a hedge of the foreign currency exposure of a net investment in a foreign operation. The change in fair value of the non designated contracts is included in current period results as part of "Other items, net." The Company manages the use of foreign exchange derivatives centrally. At December 31, 2007, the notional amount of all foreign exchange contracts was $100.3 million, which represents hedges of underlying foreign currency balances and expected foreign currency cash flows. At II 31 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Continued) (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) December 31, 2006, the notional amount of all foreign exchange contracts was $225.9 million, of which $16.8 million related to the hedging of future production costs. The remaining $209.1 million represented hedges of underlying foreign currency balances and expected foreign currency cash flows. Interest Rate Risk All of the Companys long term debt has been issued under fixed interest rate agreements. The Company has entered into fixed to floating rate swap agreements for a portion of this debt, which are designated as fair value hedges. These swaps expose the Company to movements in short term interest rates. Based on the amount of fixed to floating rate swaps and a receivable securitization program outstanding at December 31, 2007, a 100 basis point change in interest rates would cause a $15.5 million change to pre tax earnings. As of December 31, 2007, if all parties were to agree, the swaps could have been terminated by a net payment from the Company of approximately $5.0 million including accrued interest. At both December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company was a party to $1.0 billion notional amount of interest rate swaps, which are accounted for as fair value hedges. The Company did not have any interest rate cash flow hedges outstanding at December 31, 2007 and 2006. Credit Risk The Company continually monitors its positions with, and credit quality of, the financial institutions which are counterparties to its financial instruments. The Company is exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties to the agreements. However, the Company does not anticipate nonperformance by the counterparties. The Companys receivables do not represent significant concentrations of credit risk at December 31, 2007 or 2006, due to the wide variety of customers, markets and geographic areas to which the Companys products and services are sold. Related Parties National Amusements, Inc. National Amusements, Inc. ("NAI") is the controlling stockholder of CBS Corp. Mr. Sumner M. Redstone, the controlling stockholder, chairman of the board of directors and chief executive officer of NAI, is the Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors and founder of both CBS Corp. and Viacom Inc. At December 31, 2007, NAI beneficially owned CBS Corp. Class A Common Stock representing approximately 79% of the voting power of all classes of CBS Corp.s Common Stock, and owned approximately 13% of CBS Corp.s Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock on a combined basis. On October 28, 2004, Former Viacom entered into an agreement (the "NAIRI Agreement") with NAI and NAIRI, Inc. ("NAIRI"), a wholly owned subsidiary of NAI, pursuant to which Former Viacom agreed to buy, and NAI and NAIRI agreed to sell, a number of shares of Class B Common Stock each month such that the ownership percentage of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock (considered as a single class) held by NAI and or NAIRI would not increase as a result of purchases of its shares by Former Viacom under its $8.0 billion stock purchase program announced in October 2004. Pursuant to this agreement, Former Viacom purchased 9.2 million shares of Former Viacom class B common stock from NAIRI for $628.9 million in 2005. The Company did not make any purchases under this stock purchase program during 2007 and 2006. Viacom Inc. For purposes of governing certain ongoing relationships between CBS Corp. and Viacom Inc. after the Separation, the Company and Viacom Inc. entered into various agreements II 32 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Continued) (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) including a separation agreement (the "Separation Agreement"), tax matters agreement and transition services agreement. In accordance with the terms of the Separation Agreement, Viacom Inc. paid to the Company an estimated special dividend of $5.4 billion in December 2005, subject to adjustment. During 2006, Viacom Inc. paid to the Company the net undisputed adjustment to the special dividend of $172 million plus net interest of $3.1 million. In January 2007, CBS Corp. and Viacom Inc. resolved the remaining disputed items with respect to the special dividend and Viacom Inc. paid to the Company an additional $170 million, resulting in an aggregate adjustment to the special dividend of $342 million. During July 2007, the Company purchased 869,145 shares of CBS Corp. Class A and Class B Common Stock from the Viacom Inc. 401(k) Plan for $29.8 million and Viacom Inc. purchased 2,823,178 shares of Viacom Inc. class A and class B common stock from the 401(k) plans sponsored by the Company for $120.0 million. CBS Corp., through its normal course of business, is involved in transactions with companies owned by or affiliated with Viacom Inc. CBS Corp., through its Television segment, licenses its television products to Viacom Inc., primarily MTV Networks and BET. In addition, CBS Corp. recognizes advertising revenues for media spending placed by various subsidiaries of Viacom Inc., primarily Paramount Pictures. Paramount Pictures also distributes certain of the Companys television products in the home entertainment market. CBS Corp.s total revenues from these transactions were $292.0 million, $222.8 million and $173.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. CBS Corp., through Showtime Networks and CBS Television, pays license fees to Viacom Inc., primarily Paramount Pictures, for motion picture programming. These license fees are initially recorded as programming inventory and amortized over the shorter of the life of the license agreement or projected useful life of the programming. In addition, CBS Corp. places advertisements with various subsidiaries of Viacom Inc. The total amounts from these transactions were $172.4 million, $198.7 million and $153.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The following table presents the amounts due from or due to Viacom Inc. in the normal course of business as reflected on CBS Corp.s Consolidated Balance Sheets: At December 31, 2007 2006 Amounts due from Viacom Inc. Receivables $ 114.8 $ 187.2 Other assets (Receivables, noncurrent) 207.3 260.7 Total amounts due from Viacom Inc. $ 322.1 $ 447.9 Amounts due to Viacom Inc. Accounts payable $ 4.7 $ 5.2 Program rights 74.3 56.1 Other liabilities (Program rights, noncurrent) 24.3 10.7 Total amounts due to Viacom Inc. $ 103.3 $ 72.0 Other Related Parties The Company owned approximately 18% of Westwood One as of December 31, 2007, which is accounted for by the Company as an equity investment. One member of Westwood Ones current board of directors is an employee of the Company. CBS Radio receives compensation for providing management services to Westwood One pursuant to a Management II 33 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Continued) (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Agreement. Westwood One and CBS Radio also are parties to a Representation Agreement (including a related News Programming Agreement, Trademark License Agreement and Technical Services Agreement) pursuant to which Westwood One operates the CBS Radio Network and CBS Radio is paid an annual fee. The Management Agreement and Representation Agreement expire on March 31, 2009. Certain of the Companys radio stations and Westwood One have affiliation agreements pursuant to which such radio stations air programs and or commercials supplied by Westwood One and, in return, the stations receive affiliation fees and certain programming cost reimbursements. All such agreements are collectively referred to as the "Existing Agreements". CBS Television also has arrangements with Westwood One to provide news and sports programming to Westwood One. Revenues from the Existing Agreements and these arrangements were $71.6 million, $75.6 million and $81.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. On October 2, 2007, CBS Radio and Westwood One entered into definitive agreements relating to the termination, modification and extension of the Existing Agreements (the "new agreements"). Certain of the new agreements, including the Technical Services Agreement, the News Programming Agreement, the Trademark License Agreement and the affiliation agreements, are extended for a term expiring March 31, 2017. Generally, the new agreements will have no force or effect unless and until closing takes place pursuant to the terms of the new agreements. The closing of the new agreements is subject to certain closing conditions. The arrangements contemplated by the new agreements include, among other things, termination of the Representation Agreement and Management Agreement, which includes relinquishment of any representation on the Westwood One board of directors and termination of the Companys outstanding warrants to acquire shares of Westwood One common stock, which are currently out of the money. The Company owns 50% of The CW, which is accounted for by the Company as an equity investment. CBS Corp, through the Television segment, licenses its television products to The CW resulting in total revenues of $107.0 million and $53.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The Company, through the normal course of business, is involved in transactions with other related parties that have not been material in any of the periods presented. Adoption of New Accounting Standards Effective January 1, 2007, the Company adopted FIN 48, which clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes by prescribing a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. In addition, FIN 48 provides guidance on derecognition of income tax positions, classification of income tax liabilities, accounting for interest and penalties associated with unrecognized tax benefits, accounting for uncertain tax positions in interim periods, and income tax disclosures. The adoption of FIN 48 on January 1, 2007 did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. Recent Pronouncements In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, "Fair Value Measurements" ("SFAS 157"), effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007 and interim periods within those fiscal years. SFAS 157 establishes a framework for measuring fair value under generally accepted accounting principles and expands disclosures about fair value measurement. The adoption of SFAS 157 is not expected to have a material effect on the Companys consolidated financial statements. The provisions of SFAS 157 will be applied prospectively to fair value measurements and disclosures beginning in the first quarter of 2008. II 34 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Continued) (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159 "The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115" ("SFAS 159") effective as of the beginning of the first fiscal year that begins after November 15, 2007. SFAS 159 permits entities to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in earnings each reporting period. The adoption of this standard is not expected to have an effect on the Companys consolidated financial statements. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007) "Business Combinations" ("SFAS 141R"), effective for business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after December 15, 2008. SFAS 141R establishes principles and requirements for how an acquirer recognizes and measures goodwill, identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree. SFAS 141R also expands disclosure requirements for business combinations. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160 "Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements an amendment of ARB No. 51" ("SFAS 160") effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning on or after December 15, 2008. SFAS 160 establishes accounting and reporting standards for the noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary and for the deconsolidation of a subsidiary. The adoption of SFAS 160 is not expected to have a material effect on the Companys consolidated financial statements. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. Response to this is included in "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition Market Risk." II 35  
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition. (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Managements discussion and analysis of the results of operations and financial condition should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes. Descriptions of all documents incorporated by reference herein or included as exhibits hereto are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of such documents so incorporated or included. Please see Item 1A. Risk Factors in Part I of this report for the Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward Looking Statements and Risk Factors. Overview CBS Corporation (together with its consolidated subsidiaries, unless the context otherwise requires, the "Company" or "CBS Corp.") is comprised of the following segments: Television, Radio, Outdoor and Publishing. During 2006, the Company sold Paramount Parks to Cedar Fair, L.P. for $1.24 billion in cash. As a result, Paramount Parks is presented as a discontinued operation in the consolidated financial statements. The separation of former Viacom Inc. ("Former Viacom") into two publicly traded entities, CBS Corp. and new Viacom Inc. ("Viacom Inc."), was completed on December 31, 2005 (the "Separation"). The Separation was accomplished pursuant to a merger in which a subsidiary of Former Viacom was merged with and into Former Viacom, with Former Viacom continuing as the surviving entity. On December 31, 2005, Former Viacom was renamed "CBS Corporation" and each outstanding share of Former Viacom class A and class B common stock was converted into the right to receive .5 of a share of each of CBS Corp. Class A and Class B Common Stock and .5 of a share of each of Viacom Inc. class A and class B common stock. CBS Corp. has accounted for the Separation as a spin off of Viacom Inc. and, accordingly, the results of Viacom Inc. have been presented as a discontinued operation in the Companys consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005. CBS Corp. operates in the following segments: TELEVISION: The Television segment consists of CBS Television, comprised of the CBS Television Network, the Companys owned television stations, and its television production and syndication operations; Showtime Networks; and CSTV Networks (to be rebranded CBS College Sports Network in March 2008). Television revenues are generated primarily from advertising sales, television license fees and affiliate revenues. Television contributed 66% to consolidated revenues for each of the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. RADIO: The Radio segment owns radio stations in most of the large U.S. markets. Radio revenues are generated primarily from advertising sales. Radio contributed 12%, 14% and 15% to consolidated revenues for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. OUTDOOR: The Outdoor segment, principally through CBS Outdoor, displays advertising on media including billboards, transit shelters, buses, rail systems (in car, station platforms and terminals), mall kiosks, stadium signage and in retail stores. Outdoor revenues are generated primarily from advertising sales. Outdoor contributed 16%, 15% and 14% to consolidated revenues for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. PUBLISHING: The Publishing segment consists of Simon & Schusters consumer book publishing business with imprints such as Simon & Schuster, Pocket Books, Scribner and Free Press. Publishing contributed 6% to consolidated revenues for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, and 5% for the year ended December 31, 2005. II 4  Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Continued) (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Consolidated Results of Operations 2007 vs. 2006 and 2006 vs. 2005 Revenues The tables below present the Companys consolidated revenues by type for each of the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. Revenues by Type Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 Increase/(Decrease) 2007 vs. 2006 2005 Increase/(Decrease) 2006 vs. 2005 Advertising sales $ 10,060.9 $ 10,373.1 $ (312.2 ) (3 )% $ 10,415.7 $ (42.6 ) % Television license fees 1,382.2 1,606.8 (224.6 ) (14 ) 1,277.2 329.6 26 Affiliate revenues 1,117.7 1,069.6 48.1 4 992.1 77.5 8 Publishing 886.1 807.0 79.1 10 763.6 43.4 6 Home entertainment 201.9 83.4 118.5 142 259.7 (176.3 ) (68 ) Other 424.1 380.3 43.8 12 404.7 (24.4 ) (6 ) Total Revenues $ 14,072.9 $ 14,320.2 $ (247.3 ) (2 )% $ 14,113.0 $ 207.2 1 % Year Ended December 31, Percentage of Revenues by Type 2007 2006 2005 Advertising sales 72 % 72 % 74 % Television license fees 10 11 9 Affiliate revenues 8 7 7 Publishing 6 6 5 Home entertainment 1 1 2 Other 3 3 3 Total 100 % 100 % 100 % Advertising sales decreased 3% to $10.06 billion in 2007 from $10.37 billion in 2006 reflecting the absence of UPN and the impact of radio and television station divestitures. These items reduced the Companys advertising sales by 3% for 2007 versus 2006. Television advertising sales decreased 3% reflecting the absence of UPN, the impact of television station divestitures and lower political advertising sales, partially offset by the 2007 telecast of Super Bowl XLI on CBS Television Network. Radio advertising sales decreased 11% in 2007 due to weakness in radio advertising sales and the impact of radio station divestitures. Outdoor advertising sales increased 4% reflecting a 13% increase in Europe and Asia partially offset by a 1% decrease in North America, reflecting a decline in U.S. transit and displays due to the non renewal of certain marginally profitable transit and street furniture contracts in New York City and Chicago partially offset by growth in U.S. billboards. In 2006, advertising sales decreased $42.6 million to $10.37 billion from $10.42 billion in 2005 reflecting decreases at Radio and Television, partially offset by growth at Outdoor. Radio advertising sales decreased 8% reflecting weakness in the overall radio advertising market and the impact of programming changes at 27 owned radio stations during 2006. Television advertising sales decreased 1% primarily reflecting the shutdown of UPN in September 2006 and decreases at CBS Television Network, partially offset by strong political advertising sales at the television stations. Outdoor advertising sales increased 8% reflecting a 9% increase in North America, primarily in U.S. billboards, and a 5% increase in Europe and Asia. Television license fees decreased 14% to $1.38 billion in 2007 from $1.61 billion in 2006 principally reflecting lower domestic syndication revenues as revenues from 2007 domestic availabilities, including II 5 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Continued) (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) NCIS, did not match contributions from the 2006 basic cable availability and off network syndication of Frasier and the 2006 basic cable availability of Star Trek: Voyager. Television license fees increased 26% to $1.61 billion in 2006 from $1.28 billion in 2005 principally reflecting higher revenues from the domestic syndication sales of CSI: Miami, Without a Trace, Frasier and Star Trek: Voyager, and higher foreign syndication revenues, partially offset by the absence of license fees from the 2005 second cycle cable renewal of Everybody Loves Raymond and lower network license fees in 2006. Affiliate revenues increased 4% to $1.12 billion in 2007 from $1.07 billion in 2006 driven by rate increases and subscriber growth at Showtime Networks and CSTV Networks. Affiliate revenues increased 8% to $1.07 billion in 2006 from $992.1 million in 2005, reflecting rate increases and subscriber growth at Showtime Networks and the inclusion of CSTV Networks since its acquisition in January 2006. Publishing revenues increased 10% to $886.1 million in 2007 from $807.0 million in 2006 reflecting higher sales in the Adult and International groups, led by the success of the best selling title The Secret by Rhonda Byrne. Publishing revenues increased 6% to $807.0 million in 2006 from $763.6 million in 2005 primarily driven by sales of top selling titles in the Adult, Childrens and International groups. Home entertainment revenues, primarily consisting of DVD sales, increased $118.5 million to $201.9 million in 2007 from $83.4 million in 2006, as the Company is in the second year of a third party distribution arrangement which provides the Company with revenues after recoupment of upfront distribution costs incurred by the third party distributor. Home entertainment revenues decreased $176.3 million, or 68%, to $83.4 million in 2006 from $259.7 million in 2005 principally reflecting the switch from self distribution in 2005 to third party distribution in 2006. Other revenues, which include digital media revenues and other ancillary fees for Television and Radio operations, increased 12% to $424.1 million in 2007 from $380.3 million in 2006 principally reflecting higher digital media revenues. For 2006, other revenues decreased 6% to $380.3 million from $404.7 million in 2005 primarily reflecting lower revenues from the licensing and merchandising of television product and third party use of the studio facility. International Revenues The Company generated approximately 12% of its total revenues from international regions in 2007, 11% in 2006 and 12% in 2005. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Percentage of Total 2006 Percentage of Total 2005 Percentage of Total United Kingdom $ 534.9 31 % $ 484.5 31 % $ 491.2 30 % Other Europe 610.4 35 548.5 35 666.4 41 Canada 302.2 18 276.5 17 284.4 17 All other 275.2 16 270.8 17 190.4 12 Total International Revenues $1,722.7 100 % $1,580.3 100 % $1,632.4 100 % II 6 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Continued) (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Operating Expenses The table below presents the Companys consolidated operating expenses by type: Operating Expenses by Type Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 Increase/ (Decrease) 2007 vs. 2006 2005 Increase/ (Decrease) 2006 vs. 2005 Programming $ 3,394.9 $ 3,354.7 $ 40.2 1 % $ 3,453.4 $ (98.7 ) (3 )% Production 2,331.9 2,585.1 (253.2 ) (10 ) 2,403.6 181.5 8 Outdoor operations 1,177.4 1,168.3 9.1 1 1,134.2 34.1 3 Publishing operations 590.1 539.2 50.9 9 525.0 14.2 3 Other 835.0 777.5 57.5 7 862.1 (84.6 ) (10 ) Total Operating Expenses $ 8,329.3 $ 8,424.8 $ (95.5 ) (1 )% $ 8,378.3 $ 46.5 1 % For 2007, operating expenses of $8.33 billion decreased 1% from $8.42 billion in 2006. For 2006, operating expenses of $8.42 billion increased 1% from $8.38 billion in 2005. The major components and changes in operating expenses were as follows: Programming expenses represented 41% of total operating expenses in 2007, 40% in 2006 and 41% in 2005, and reflect the amortization of acquired rights of programs exhibited on the broadcast and cable networks, and television and radio stations. Programming expenses increased 1% to $3.39 billion in 2007 from $3.35 billion in 2006 reflecting higher costs associated with the 2007 telecast of Super Bowl XLI on CBS Television Network partially offset by lower expenses resulting from the absence of UPN. Programming expenses decreased 3% to $3.35 billion in 2006 from $3.45 billion in 2005 principally reflecting lower costs associated with primetime series on CBS Television Network, the shutdown of UPN and lower sports programming expenses at Radio. Production expenses represented 28% of total operating expenses in 2007, 31% in 2006 and 29% in 2005, and reflect the costs and amortization of internally developed television programs, including direct production costs, residuals and participation expenses, and production overhead, as well as television and radio costs, including on air talent and other production costs. Production expenses decreased 10% to $2.33 billion in 2007 from $2.59 billion in 2006 primarily reflecting lower costs associated with lower syndication revenues. Production expenses increased 8% to $2.59 billion in 2006 from $2.40 billion in 2005 primarily reflecting higher costs relating to the 2006 syndication sales of Frasier and CSI: Miami. Outdoor operations expenses represented 14% of total operating expenses in each of the years 2007, 2006 and 2005, and reflect transit, billboard lease, maintenance, posting and rotation expenses. Outdoor operations expenses increased 1% to $1.18 billion in 2007 from $1.17 billion in 2006 primarily due to the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rate changes and increased costs for maintenance and materials, partially offset by lower transit costs, principally reflecting the non renewal of certain transit and street furniture contracts in New York City and Chicago. Outdoor operations expenses increased 3% to $1.17 billion in 2006 from $1.13 billion in 2005 principally reflecting higher transit and billboard lease costs partially offset by the absence of the impact of 2005 hurricanes. Publishing operations expenses, which represented 7% of total operating expenses in 2007, and 6% in both 2006 and 2005, reflect cost of book sales, royalties and other costs incurred with respect to publishing operations. Publishing operations expenses for 2007 increased 9% to $590.1 million from $539.2 million in 2006 reflecting higher production costs and royalty expenses resulting from the increase in revenues and the mix of titles. Publishing operations expenses for 2006 increased 3% to II 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Continued) (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) $539.2 million from $525.0 million in 2005 reflecting higher production, return, and freight and delivery costs partially offset by lower royalty expenses. Other operating expenses, which represented 10% of total operating expenses in 2007, 9% in 2006 and 10% in 2005, primarily include distribution expenses incurred with respect to television product, costs associated with digital media, and compensation. Other operating expenses increased 7% to $835.0 million in 2007 from $777.5 million in 2006 due to higher television distribution costs and higher costs associated with digital media. Other operating expenses decreased 10% to $777.5 million in 2006 from $862.1 million in 2005 primarily reflecting lower home entertainment distribution costs due to the switch from self distribution in 2005 to third party distribution in 2006, partially offset by higher costs associated with digital media investment and expansion. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") expenses, which include expenses incurred for selling and marketing costs, occupancy and back office support, represented 19% of revenues for each of the years 2007, 2006 and 2005. SG&A expenses decreased $118.2 million, or 4%, to $2.67 billion in 2007 from $2.78 billion in 2006, primarily reflecting lower expenses due to the sale of radio and television stations, the absence of UPN and lower pension and postretirement benefits costs. These decreases were partially offset by an increase of $42.3 million in stock based compensation expense and increased costs associated with online and interactive businesses. In 2007, pension and postretirement benefits costs decreased $66.7 million from 2006 primarily due to the recognition of lower actuarial losses and the impact of $250.0 million of discretionary contributions made during 2006 to pre fund the Companys qualified pension plans. For 2006, SG&A expenses increased $104.6 million, or 4%, to $2.78 billion from $2.68 billion in 2005 primarily reflecting higher employee related costs, including an increase of $46.7 million in stock based compensation expense, the inclusion of CSTV Networks since its acquisition in January 2006 and $24.0 million of UPN shutdown costs, partially offset by lower expenses resulting from the absence of UPN since September 2006. In 2006, pension and postretirement benefits costs increased $39.6 million from 2005, primarily due to an increase in pension costs from the recognition of higher actuarial losses, which resulted from the change in the mortality rate assumption and lower than expected plan asset performance in 2005 partially offset by lower postretirement benefits costs reflecting the effect of a Medicare Part D subsidy. Advertising expenses of $328.1 million included in SG&A expenses in 2006 decreased 4% from 2005 primarily due to lower spending at Television, principally reflecting the shutdown of UPN. Impairment Charges The Company recorded a pre tax impairment charge of $65.2 million in the fourth quarter of 2006 to reduce the carrying value of the allocated goodwill for certain television stations to be disposed. The Company completed the sale of these television stations on January 10, 2008 (See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements). Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") 142 "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" ("SFAS 142") requires the Company to perform a fair value based impairment test of goodwill on at least an annual basis. The first step of the test examines whether or not the book value of each of the Companys reporting units exceeds its fair value. If the book value for a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step of the test is then required to compare the implied fair value of that reporting units goodwill with the book value of its goodwill. The Companys reporting units are generally one level below or at the operating II 8 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Continued) (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) segment level. Effective as of the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company tested for goodwill impairment for the Radio operating segment at its geographic component level. The estimated fair value of each reporting unit was computed principally based upon the present value of future cash flows (Discounted Cash Flow Method) and both the traded and transaction values of comparable businesses (Market Comparable Method). The Discounted Cash Flow Method and Market Comparable Method were weighted equally and resulted in substantially equal fair values. As a result of the 2005 annual impairment test, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $9.48 billion in the fourth quarter of 2005. The $9.48 billion reflected charges to reduce the carrying value of goodwill at the Television segment of $6.44 billion and the Radio segment of $3.05 billion. Depreciation and Amortization For 2007, depreciation and amortization increased $16.2 million, or 4%, to $455.7 million from $439.5 million principally reflecting higher depreciation associated with new broadcast facilities. For 2006, depreciation and amortization decreased slightly to $439.5 million from $440.1 million. Interest Expense For 2007, interest expense increased $5.4 million to $570.9 million from $565.5 million as debt balances in 2007 remained relatively consistent with the prior year. The Company had $7.09 billion at December 31, 2007 and $7.04 billion at December 31, 2006 of principal amounts of debt outstanding (including current maturities) at weighted average interest rates of 7.1% and 7.0%, respectively. For 2006, interest expense decreased 22% to $565.5 million from $720.5 million in 2005 due to lower debt balances in 2006. In the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company received from Viacom Inc. a $5.4 billion special cash dividend as a result of the Separation, which was used by the Company to repay outstanding commercial paper, debt outstanding under a revolving credit facility and certain fixed rate debt upon maturity in January 2006. In addition, certain fixed rate debt was repaid during 2005, upon maturity. Interest Income For 2007, interest income increased $4.0 million to $116.1 million from $112.1 million in 2006. For 2006, interest income increased to $112.1 million from $21.3 million in 2005, principally resulting from an increase in cash and cash equivalents, primarily reflecting the proceeds from the sale of Paramount Parks and cash flow from operations. Loss on Early Extinguishment of Debt For 2006, "Loss on early extinguishment of debt" of $6.0 million reflected losses recognized upon the early redemption of $50.0 million of the Companys 6.625% senior notes due 2011 and $52.2 million of the Companys 7.70% senior notes due 2010. Other Items, Net For 2007, "Other items, net" reflected a net loss of $34.0 million principally consisting of losses associated with securitizing trade receivables of $32.0 million and a non cash charge of $24.8 million associated with an other than temporary decline in the market value of one of the Companys investments, partially offset by a net pre tax gain of $10.0 million on television and radio station divestitures, foreign exchange gains of $8.0 million and gains of $3.9 million on the sale of investments. For 2006, "Other items, net" reflected a net loss of $14.3 million principally consisting of losses associated with securitizing trade receivables of $31.0 million, a non cash charge of $6.2 million associated II 9 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Continued) (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) with an other than temporary decline in the market value of one of the Companys investments and foreign exchange losses of $2.0 million, partially offset by a pre tax gain of $24.6 million on radio station divestitures. For 2005, "Other items, net" of $4.3 million principally reflected a net gain of $86.2 million from the sale of investments and businesses, and foreign exchange gains of $9.9 million, partially offset by losses associated with securitizing trade receivables of $23.8 million and a non cash charge of $67.9 million associated with other than temporary declines in the market value of certain radio investments. Provision for Income Taxes The provision for income taxes represents federal, state and local, and foreign income taxes on earnings (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes, equity in loss of investee companies and minority interest. The provision for income taxes for continuing operations was $821.5 million, $652.2 million and $794.2 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The annual effective income tax rate was 38.5% in 2007 versus 30.6% in 2006 reflecting the absence of 2006 tax settlements of $164.1 million and the tax impact of television and radio station divestitures. The provision for income taxes included tax provisions of $68.5 million and $33.5 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively, relating to station divestitures. For 2005, the annual effective income tax rate was (10.5)% which included the impact of the pre tax non cash impairment charge of $9.48 billion ($9.46 billion, net of tax) to reduce the carrying value of goodwill. For 2008, the annual effective income tax rate is anticipated to be in the range of 38.0% to 38.5%. Equity in Loss of Investee Companies, Net of Tax Equity in loss of investee companies, net of tax, reflects the operating results of the Companys equity investments. Equity in loss of investee companies, net of tax, was $80.6 million for 2007, $97.0 million for 2006 and $1.5 million for 2005. These net losses principally reflected non cash charges of $62.9 million, $94.2 million and $20.7 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, associated with other than temporary declines in the market value of the Companys investments, principally Westwood One, Inc. ("Westwood One"). The net losses in 2007 and 2006 also reflected operating losses from the Companys 50% investment in The CW. Minority Interest, Net of Tax Minority interest primarily represents the minority ownership of certain international entities. Net Earnings (Loss) from Continuing Operations For 2007, the Company reported net earnings from continuing operations of $1.23 billion versus net earnings from continuing operations of $1.38 billion in 2006, and a net loss from continuing operations of $8.36 billion in 2005. The loss in 2005 was driven by the non cash impairment charge of $9.48 billion to reduce the carrying value of goodwill. II 10  Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Continued) (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Net Earnings from Discontinued Operations During 2006, Paramount Parks was sold to Cedar Fair, L.P. for $1.24 billion in cash and as a result, Paramount Parks has been presented as a discontinued operation in the consolidated financial statements. The Separation of Former Viacom was accounted for by the Company as a spin off of Viacom Inc. Accordingly, the operations of Viacom Inc. are presented as a discontinued operation in the Companys consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005. For the year ended December 31, 2007, net earnings from discontinued operations of $16.2 million principally reflects adjustments to the gain on the sale of Paramount Parks. The following tables set forth the details of CBS Corp.s net earnings from discontinued operations for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005. For the year ended December 31, 2006, net earnings from discontinued operations primarily reflected the operating results and the gain on the sale of Paramount Parks. Net earnings from discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2005 included the operating results of Paramount Parks as well as Viacom Inc., prior to its separation from the Company. Year Ended December 31, 2006 Total Revenues from discontinued operations $ 158.9 Loss from discontinued operations $ (1.3 ) Gain on sale of Paramount Parks 454.8 Earnings from discontinued operations before income taxes 453.5 Provision for income taxes (175.9 ) Net earnings from discontinued operations $ 277.6 Year Ended December 31, 2005 Viacom Inc. Paramount Parks Total Revenues from discontinued operations $ 9,489.1 $ 423.5 $ 9,912.6 Income from discontinued operations $ 2,318.9 $ 52.6 $ 2,371.5 Loss on disposal of discontinued operations (72.9 ) (72.9 ) Minority interest (8.2 ) (8.2 ) Earnings from discontinued operations before income taxes 2,237.8 52.6 2,290.4 Provision for income taxes (1,005.1 ) (13.8 ) (1,018.9 ) Net earnings from discontinued operations $ 1,232.7 $ 38.8 $ 1,271.5 Net Earnings (Loss) For 2007, the Company reported net earnings of $1.25 billion versus net earnings of $1.66 billion in 2006 and a net loss of $7.09 billion in 2005. The loss in 2005 was driven by the non cash impairment charge of $9.48 billion to reduce the carrying value of goodwill. II 11 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Continued) (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Segment Results of Operations For the Years Ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 The tables below present the Companys revenues, segment operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization and impairment charges ("Segment OIBDA before Impairment Charges"), operating income (loss), and depreciation and amortization by segment, for each of the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 Revenues: Television $ 9,274.1 $ 9,487.1 $ 9,325.2 Radio 1,753.7 1,959.9 2,114.8 Outdoor 2,187.3 2,103.4 1,949.3 Publishing 886.1 807.0 763.6 Eliminations (28.3 ) (37.2 ) (39.9 ) Total Revenues $ 14,072.9 $ 14,320.2 $ 14,113.0 Segment OIBDA before Impairment Charges (a): Television $ 1,926.2 $ 1,947.7 $ 1,824.7 Radio 688.7 820.0 925.0 Outdoor 620.9 568.0 469.9 Publishing 97.2 78.0 74.6 Corporate (159.0 ) (162.9 ) (120.5 ) Residual costs (96.5 ) (139.7 ) (118.7 ) Impairment charges (b) (65.2 ) (9,484.4 ) Depreciation and amortization (455.7 ) (439.5 ) (440.1 ) Total Operating Income (Loss) $ 2,621.8 $ 2,606.4 $ (6,869.5 ) Operating Income (Loss): Television (b) $ 1,739.0 $ 1,711.0 $ (4,791.5 ) Radio (b) 657.8 787.4 (2,154.1 ) Outdoor 404.9 351.8 260.5 Publishing 88.1 68.5 66.0 Corporate (171.5 ) (172.6 ) (131.7 ) Residual costs (96.5 ) (139.7 ) (118.7 ) Total Operating Income (Loss) $ 2,621.8 $ 2,606.4 $ (6,869.5 ) Depreciation and Amortization: Television $ 187.2 $ 171.5 $ 178.8 Radio 30.9 32.6 32.1 Outdoor 216.0 216.2 209.4 Publishing 9.1 9.5 8.6 Corporate 12.5 9.7 11.2 Total Depreciation and Amortization $ 455.7 $ 439.5 $ 440.1 (a)The Company presents Segment OIBDA before Impairment Charges as the primary measure of profit and loss for its operating segments in accordance with SFAS No. 131 "Disclosure about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information" ("SFAS 131"). The Company believes the presentation of Segment OIBDA before Impairment Charges is relevant and useful for investors because it allows investors to view segment performance in a manner similar to the primary method used by the Companys management and enhances their ability to understand the Companys operating performance. The reconciliation of Segment OIBDA before Impairment Charges to the Companys consolidated Net Earnings (Loss) is presented in Note 15 (Reportable Segments) to the consolidated financial statements. (b)The Company recorded a non cash impairment charge of $65.2 million in the Television segment during the fourth quarter of 2006 to reduce the carrying value of the allocated goodwill for certain television stations to be disposed. As a result of the Companys annual goodwill and intangible assets impairment tests, a non cash charge of $9.48 billion was recorded in 2005 to reduce the carrying value of goodwill. The 2005 charge of $9.48 billion is comprised of $6.44 billion for the Television segment and $3.05 billion for the Radio segment. II 12 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Continued) (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Segment Results of Operations 2007 vs. 2006 and 2006 vs. 2005 Television (CBS Television Network, CBS Television Stations, CBS Paramount Network Television, CBS Television Distribution, Showtime Networks and CSTV Networks) (Contributed 66% to consolidated revenues for each of the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005.) Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 Revenues $ 9,274.1 $ 9,487.1 $ 9,325.2 OIBDA before impairment charges $ 1,926.2 $ 1,947.7 $ 1,824.7 Impairment charges (65.2 ) (6,437.4 ) Depreciation and amortization (187.2 ) (171.5 ) (178.8 ) Operating income (loss) $ 1,739.0 $ 1,711.0 $ (4,791.5 ) OIBDA before impairment charges as a % of revenues 21% 21% 20% Operating income as a % of revenues 19% 18% NM Capital expenditures $ 216.8 $ 216.5 $ 197.2 NM Not meaningful 2007 vs. 2006 For 2007, Television revenues decreased 2% to $9.27 billion from $9.49 billion in 2006 primarily due to lower television license fee and advertising revenues partially offset by increases in affiliate and home entertainment revenues. Revenues for 2007 were negatively impacted by the absence of UPN which ceased broadcasting in September 2006 and television station divestitures. These two items reduced total 2007 Television revenues by 3% and 2007 Television advertising revenues by 4% versus 2006. Advertising revenues decreased by 3% primarily due to the above mentioned factors and lower political advertising sales partially offset by the 2007 telecast of Super Bowl XLI on CBS Television Network. Television license fee revenues decreased 14% reflecting lower domestic syndication revenues as revenues from 2007 domestic availabilities, including NCIS, did not match contributions from the 2006 basic cable availability and off network syndication of Frasier and cable availability of Star Trek: Voyager. Affiliate revenues increased 4% primarily due to subscriber growth and rate increases at Showtime Networks and CSTV Networks. Home entertainment revenues increased by $118.5 million over 2006 as the Company is in the second year of a third party distribution arrangement which provides the Company with revenues after recoupment of upfront distribution costs incurred by the third party distributor. For 2007, Television reported operating income of $1.74 billion versus $1.71 billion in 2006. Included in 2006 operating income was a non cash impairment charge of $65.2 million to reduce the carrying value of goodwill. Television OIBDA before impairment charges decreased 1% to $1.93 billion in 2007 from $1.95 billion in 2006 principally reflecting lower political advertising sales and lower profits from syndication sales partially offset by higher home entertainment revenues and the absence of $24.0 million of shutdown costs for UPN incurred in 2006. Included in total Television expenses is stock based compensation of $49.6 million and $31.1 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. II 13 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Continued) (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) License fees for completed television programming in syndication and on cable are recorded as revenues in the period that the products are available for exhibition, which, among other reasons, may cause substantial fluctuation in operating results. Unrecognized revenues attributable to such licensing agreements were $582.9 million and $675.5 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. 2006 vs. 2005 For 2006, Television revenues increased 2% to $9.49 billion from $9.33 billion in 2005 primarily due to growth in television license fee and affiliate revenues partially offset by a decrease in home entertainment and advertising revenues. Television license fee revenues increased 26% due to the 2006 domestic syndication sales of CSI: Miami and Without a Trace, the basic cable availability and off network syndication of Frasier, the cable availability of Star Trek: Voyager and higher foreign syndication revenues partially offset by the absence of license fees from the 2005 second cycle cable renewal of Everybody Loves Raymond and lower network license fees. Affiliate revenues increased 8% primarily due to rate increases and subscriber growth at Showtime Networks, and the inclusion of CSTV Networks results since its acquisition in January 2006. Advertising sales decreased 1% primarily due to the shutdown of UPN and decreases at CBS Television Network partially offset by higher political advertising sales. Home entertainment revenues decreased 68% principally due to the switch from self distribution in 2005 to third party distribution in 2006. For 2006, Television reported operating income of $1.71 billion versus an operating loss of $4.79 billion in 2005. Included in 2006 and 2005 operating income were non cash impairment charges of $65.2 million and $6.44 billion, respectively, to reduce the carrying value of goodwill. Television OIBDA before impairment charges increased 7% to $1.95 billion in 2006 from $1.82 billion in 2005. This increase primarily reflects the increases in revenues noted above and lower costs associated with primetime series at CBS Television Network partially offset by higher production costs for the syndication sales of Frasier and CSI: Miami, $24.0 million of UPN shutdown costs and higher stock based compensation. Included in total Television expenses is stock based compensation of $31.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 versus $7.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. Capital expenditures increased $19.3 million to $216.5 million in 2006 from $197.2 million in 2005, principally reflecting increased spending for buildings and technical equipment. Acquisitions On May 30, 2007, the Company acquired Last.fm, a global, community based, music discovery website, for approximately $280 million. Last.fm has been included as part of the Television segment since the date of acquisition. On April 4, 2007, the Company completed the acquisition of MaxPreps, Inc., an online high school sports network, for $43.0 million. MaxPreps, Inc. has been included as part of the Television segment since the date of acquisition. On January 5, 2006, the Company completed the acquisition of CSTV Networks, a cable network and online digital sports media company, for a purchase price of approximately $325 million, comprised of 10.2 million shares of CBS Corp. Class B Common Stock and $52 million in cash. CSTV Networks has been included as part of the Television segment since the date of acquisition. During the second quarter of 2005, the Company acquired KOVR TV, a Sacramento television station, for approximately $285 million. II 14 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Continued) (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Dispositions On January 10, 2008, the Company completed the sale of seven of its owned television stations in Austin, Salt Lake City, Providence and West Palm Beach to Cerberus Capital Management, L.P. for approximately $185 million. In connection with the agreement to sell these stations, a pre tax impairment charge of $65.2 million was recorded on the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2006 to reduce the carrying value of the allocated goodwill. On April 16, 2007, the Company completed an exchange agreement with Liberty Media Corporation under which the stock of a subsidiary of the Company which held CBS Corp.s Green Bay television station and its satellite television station, valued at $64.0 million, and $169.8 million in cash were exchanged for the 7.6 million shares of CBS Corp. Class B Common Stock held by Liberty Media Corporation. On February 26, 2007, the Company completed the sale of its television station in New Orleans for $4.3 million. Restructuring During September 2006, the Company combined the resources of its syndication and distribution operations. As a result, restructuring charges of $11.6 million were recorded in SG&A expenses in the Television segment during the year ended December 31, 2006. The charges reflected severance costs of $9.7 million and legal, lease termination and other expenses of $1.9 million. The Company paid $7.6 million of the restructuring charges during 2007 and $.5 million during 2006, leaving $3.5 million of this restructuring reserve remaining at December 31, 2007. The Company expects to substantially use this reserve by the end of 2008. The CW, a broadcast network and 50/50% joint venture with Warner Bros. Entertainment, was launched in September 2006. As a result, UPN ceased broadcasting at the conclusion of the 2005/2006 broadcast season. In connection with the shutdown of UPN, the Television segment recorded shutdown costs of $24.0 million in SG&A expenses in the second quarter of 2006. The charges reflected costs associated with contract terminations of $13.6 million and severance, legal and other expenses of $10.4 million. The Company paid $3.2 million of the shutdown costs during 2007 and $4.4 million during 2006. Additionally, during the year ended December 31, 2007, the reserve was reduced by $4.1 million due to a contract settlement. The remaining reserve of $12.3 million as of December 31, 2007 principally reflects contractual payments which are expected to be substantially paid through 2010. II 15 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Continued) (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Radio (CBS Radio) (Contributed 12% to consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007, 14% for the year ended December 31, 2006 and 15% for the year ended December 31, 2005.) Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 Revenues $ 1,753.7 $ 1,959.9 $ 2,114.8 OIBDA before impairment charge $ 688.7 $ 820.0 $ 925.0 Impairment charge (3,047.0 ) Depreciation and amortization (30.9 ) (32.6 ) (32.1 ) Operating income (loss) $ 657.8 $ 787.4 $ (2,154.1 ) OIBDA before impairment charge as a % of revenues 39% 42% 44% Operating income as a % of revenues 38% 40% NM Capital expenditures $ 40.4 $ 43.2 $ 37.7 NM Not meaningful 2007 vs. 2006 For 2007, Radio revenues decreased 11% to $1.75 billion from $1.96 billion in 2006 reflecting weakness in advertising sales and the impact of radio station sales in ten markets. The station divestitures negatively impacted the Radio revenue comparison by 5% in 2007. Radio receives affiliation and other fees and consideration for management services provided to Westwood One, an investment of the Company. Revenues from these arrangements totaled $51.6 million in 2007 and $59.1 million in 2006. On October 2, 2007, CBS Radio and Westwood One entered into definitive agreements including, among others, agreements relating to the termination of management and representation arrangements, and modification and extension of certain arrangements involving compensation to the Company, the provision of radio programming (principally news and traffic) by Westwood One to CBS Radio and the distribution by Westwood One of CBS Radio News. The termination, modification and extension of these arrangements are subject to certain closing conditions. For 2007, Radio operating income decreased 16% to $657.8 million from $787.4 million in 2006 and OIBDA decreased 16% to $688.7 million from $820.0 million in 2006. These decreases principally reflected lower advertising sales and the impact of station divestitures partially offset by lower sports programming expenses. Operating expenses, primarily comprised of radio programming and production expenses, decreased 3% in 2007 primarily due to the absence of expenses for divested stations and lower sports programming expenses partially offset by higher employee related costs, contractual increases in music license fees and higher costs associated with digital media. SG&A expenses decreased 9% in 2007 reflecting the absence of expenses for divested stations and lower commissions and employee related costs partially offset by higher stock based compensation expense. Included in total Radio expenses is stock based compensation of $15.9 million and $10.7 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. II 16  Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Continued) (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) 2006 vs. 2005 For 2006, Radio revenues decreased 7% to $1.96 billion from $2.11 billion in 2005, principally reflecting 8% lower advertising sales from decreases in both average unit rates and units sold, resulting from weakness in the overall radio advertising market as well as the impact of programming changes at 27 owned radio stations during 2006. Revenues from arrangements with Westwood One totaled $59.1 million in 2006 and $63.4 million in 2005. For 2006, Radio reported operating income of $787.4 million versus an operating loss of $2.15 billion in 2005, which included a non cash impairment charge of $3.05 billion to reduce the carrying value of goodwill. Radio OIBDA before impairment charges decreased 11% to $820.0 million in 2006 from $925.0 million in 2005, reflecting the revenue decline noted above partially offset by lower expenses. Operating expenses decreased 5% in 2006 principally reflecting lower programming costs, including sports programming. SG&A expenses decreased 3% in 2006 primarily reflecting decreases in professional fees, sales commissions and bad debt expense partially offset by lower gains on disposition of assets in 2006 as compared to 2005. Included in total Radio expenses is stock based compensation of $10.7 million and $2.3 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. Acquisitions During the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company acquired KIFR FM, a San Francisco radio station, for approximately $95 million. Dispositions During 2007, the Company completed the sales of 34 radio stations in nine of its smaller markets for $543.4 million. During 2006, the Company completed the sale of five radio stations in one small market for $125.0 million. Outdoor (CBS Outdoor) (Contributed 16% to consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007, 15% for the year ended December 31, 2006 and 14% for the year ended December 31, 2005.) Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 Revenues $ 2,187.3 $ 2,103.4 $ 1,949.3 OIBDA $ 620.9 $ 568.0 $ 469.9 Depreciation and amortization (216.0 ) (216.2 ) (209.4 ) Operating income $ 404.9 $ 351.8 $ 260.5 OIBDA as a % of revenues 28% 27% 24% Operating income as a % of revenues 19% 17% 13% Capital expenditures $ 186.4 $ 115.7 $ 68.4 II 17 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Continued) (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) 2007 vs. 2006 For 2007, Outdoor revenues increased 4% to $2.19 billion from $2.10 billion in 2006 reflecting an increase of 13% in Europe and Asia, driven by favorable foreign exchange rate changes and growth in the U.K. and France markets, and growth in the U.S. billboard business. Revenues for North America decreased 1% in 2007 as growth of 9% in U.S. billboards, 9% in Canada and 8% in Mexico was more than offset by a decline of 28% in U.S. transit and displays, reflecting the non renewal of marginally profitable transit and street furniture contracts in New York City and Chicago. The non renewal of these contracts negatively impacted the Outdoor revenue comparison by 6% in 2007. The favorable net impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations on total Outdoor revenues was approximately $75 million in 2007. Approximately 48% and 44% of Outdoor revenues were generated from international regions in 2007 and 2006, respectively. For 2007, Outdoor operating income increased 15% to $404.9 million from $351.8 million in 2006 and OIBDA increased 9% to $620.9 million from $568.0 million in 2006, led by growth in North America. North America operating income and OIBDA increased 23% to $336.5 million and 13% to $518.4 million, respectively, due to strength in the U.S. billboard business. Europe and Asia operating income and OIBDA decreased 13% to $68.4 million and 5% to $102.5 million, respectively, reflecting higher transit costs, principally in the U.K., partially offset by the revenue growth and the favorable impact of foreign exchange rate changes. Total Outdoor operating expenses increased 1% in 2007 primarily due to the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rate changes on expenses and increased costs for maintenance and materials, partially offset by lower transit costs. The decrease in transit costs reflected lower costs in the U.S. due to the previously mentioned non renewal of certain contracts partially offset by increases in the U.K. SG&A expenses increased 6% in 2007 reflecting the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rate changes on expenses and higher bad debt expense and professional fees. Included in total Outdoor expenses is stock based compensation of $5.3 million and $3.2 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. Capital expenditures increased $70.7 million to $186.4 million in 2007 principally reflecting increased spending for transit contracts in the U.K. 2006 vs. 2005 For 2006, Outdoor revenues increased 8% to $2.10 billion in 2006 from $1.95 billion in 2005 led by growth of 9% in North America and 5% in Europe and Asia. North America results reflected growth of 11% in U.S. billboards, 8% in Canada and 14% in Mexico. Results in Europe and Asia were principally driven by growth in the U.K., Italy and China markets. The favorable net impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations on Outdoor revenues was approximately $18 million in 2006. Approximately 44% and 45% of Outdoor revenues were generated from international regions in 2006 and 2005, respectively. Outdoor operating income increased 35% to $351.8 million in 2006 from $260.5 million in 2005, and OIBDA increased 21% to $568.0 million in 2006 from $469.9 million in 2005, reflecting the revenue increase noted above partially offset by higher expenses. Operating expenses increased 3% in 2006 primarily due to higher transit and billboard lease costs and the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rate changes, partially offset by the absence of the impact of 2005 hurricanes. SG&A expenses increased 6% in 2006 due to higher employee related expenses and the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rate changes offset in part by lower professional fees and bad debt expense. Included in total Outdoor expenses is stock based compensation of $3.2 million and $.6 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. II 18 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Continued) (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Acquisitions On October 5, 2007, the Company completed the acquisition of SignStorey, Inc., a distributor of video programming and advertising content to retail stores, for $71.5 million. SignStorey, Inc. has been renamed CBS Outernet and has been included as part of the Outdoor segment since the date of acquisition. Publishing (Simon & Schuster) (Contributed 6% to consolidated revenues for each of the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, and 5% for the year ended December 31, 2005.) Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 Revenues $ 886.1 $ 807.0 $ 763.6 OIBDA $ 97.2 $ 78.0 $ 74.6 Depreciation and amortization (9.1 ) (9.5 ) (8.6 ) Operating income $ 88.1 $ 68.5 $ 66.0 OIBDA as a % of revenues 11% 10% 10% Operating income as a % of revenues 10% 8% 9% Capital expenditures $ 12.0 $ 5.8 $ 4.2 2007 vs. 2006 For 2007, Publishing revenues increased 10% to $886.1 million from $807.0 million in 2006 primarily reflecting higher sales in the Adult and International groups, led by the performance of the best seller The Secret by Rhonda Byrne. Additional best selling titles in 2007 included YOU: Staying Young by Michael F. Roizen and Mehmet C. Oz and Become A Better You by Joel Osteen. For 2007, Publishing operating income increased 29% to $88.1 million from $68.5 million in 2006 and OIBDA increased 25% to $97.2 million from $78.0 million in 2006. These increases reflected the revenue growth noted above partially offset by higher expenses. Operating expenses increased 9% in 2007 due to higher production costs and royalty expenses resulting from the revenue increase and the mix of titles. SG&A expenses increased 5% in 2007 reflecting increased employee related costs, digital archive costs, and higher volume driven advertising and selling expenses partially offset by lower bad debt expense. Included in total Publishing expenses is stock based compensation of $3.5 million and $1.9 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. 2006 vs. 2005 For 2006, Publishing revenues increased 6% to $807.0 million from $763.6 million in 2005 led by higher book sales, primarily in the Adult and International groups, as well as higher distribution fee income. Top selling titles in 2006 included YOU: On a Diet by Michael F. Roizen and Mehmet C. Oz, Liseys Story by Stephen King and State of Denial by Bob Woodward. Publishing operating income increased 4% to $68.5 million in 2006 from $66.0 million in 2005 and OIBDA increased 5% to $78.0 million in 2006 from $74.6 million in 2005 reflecting the revenue increases noted above partially offset by higher expenses. Operating expenses increased 3% in 2006 due to higher production, return, and freight and delivery costs partially offset by lower royalty expenses. SG&A II 19 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Continued) (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) expenses increased 16% in 2006 primarily resulting from an increase in bad debt expense and higher selling and marketing, and employee related costs. Included in total Publishing expenses is stock based compensation of $1.9 million and $.5 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. Financial Position Current assets decreased by $2.11 billion to $6.03 billion at December 31, 2007 from $8.14 billion at December 31, 2006 primarily due to decreases in cash and cash equivalents of $1.73 billion and receivables of $146.0 million. The decrease in cash and cash equivalents principally reflected the purchase of Company common stock for $3.35 billion and dividend payments, partially offset by cash flow from operations. The decrease in receivables is primarily due to a decrease in syndication revenues as well as radio and television station divestitures. The allowance for doubtful accounts as a percentage of receivables was 5.0% at December 31, 2007 compared with 5.1% at December 31, 2006. Net property and equipment increased by $107.7 million to $2.92 billion at December 31, 2007 from $2.81 billion at December 31, 2006 reflecting capital expenditures of $469.1 million partially offset by depreciation expense of $359.5 million. Goodwill of $18.45 billion at December 31, 2007 decreased $369.5 million from $18.82 billion at December 31, 2006, primarily reflecting television and radio station divestitures and certain tax related purchase accounting adjustments, partially offset by acquisitions and foreign currency translation adjustments. Intangible assets, principally consisting of FCC licenses, and leasehold and franchise agreements, decreased by $343.7 million to $10.08 billion at December 31, 2007 from $10.43 billion at December 31, 2006, primarily due to television and radio station divestitures of $275.5 million and amortization expense of $96.2 million. Pension and postretirement benefit obligations decreased by $297.4 million to $1.70 billion at December 31, 2007 from $1.99 billion at December 31, 2006 primarily due to a $150.0 million discretionary contribution in 2007 to pre fund the Companys qualified pension plans and actuarial gains in 2007. Noncurrent deferred income tax liabilities, net decreased by $363.5 million to $1.95 billion at December 31, 2007 from $2.31 billion at December 31, 2006, primarily due to purchase accounting adjustments. Cash Flows Cash and cash equivalents decreased by $1.73 billion for the year ended December 31, 2007. The change in cash and cash equivalents was as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 Cash provided by (used for) operating activities from: Continuing operations $ 2,180.4 $ 2,002.5 $ 1,822.3 Discontinued operations 4.8 (114.1 ) 1,714.7 Cash provided by operating activities 2,185.2 1,888.4 3,537.0 Cash (used for) provided by investing activities from: Continuing operations (135.1 ) 849.5 4,981.5 Discontinued operations (34.5 ) (213.7 ) Cash (used for) provided by investing activities (135.1 ) 815.0 4,767.8 Cash used for financing activities from: Continuing operations (3,777.8 ) (1,284.1 ) (7,151.8 ) Discontinued operations (425.9 ) Cash used for financing activities (3,777.8 ) (1,284.1 ) (7,577.7 ) Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents $ (1,727.7 ) $ 1,419.3 $ 727.1 II 20 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Continued) (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Operating Activities. In 2007, cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations increased $177.9 million, or 9%, to $2.18 billion from $2.00 billion in 2006 principally reflecting a $150.0 million discretionary contribution made during 2007 to pre fund the Companys qualified pension plans versus contributions of $250.0 million in 2006, lower cash taxes paid and lower net cash interest. In 2006, cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations increased $180.2 million, or 10%, to $2.00 billion from $1.82 billion in 2005 principally reflecting higher earnings after adjusting for non cash items, including the impairment charges and stock based compensation. These increases were partially offset by higher taxes paid in 2006 and lower cash inflows from net changes in operating assets and liabilities, principally reflecting $250.0 million of discretionary contributions made during 2006 to pre fund the Companys qualified pension plans. Cash paid for income taxes from continuing operations was $524.9 million for 2007, $562.2 million for 2006 and $493.4 million for 2005. Cash taxes for 2008 are anticipated to be in the range of $550 million to $600 million. Investing Activities. In 2007, cash used for investing activities of $135.1 million principally reflected capital expenditures of $469.1 million, acquisitions of $410.0 million, primarily consisting of the acquisitions of Last.fm, MaxPreps, Inc., SignStorey, Inc. and other outdoor advertising properties, and investments in investee companies of $42.3 million, principally reflecting the investment in several new interactive initiatives and The CW. These increases were partially offset by proceeds from dispositions of $562.2 million, primarily from the radio station divestitures, and net receipts of $172.5 million from Viacom Inc. related to the Separation. In 2006, cash provided by investing activities from continuing operations of $849.5 million reflected proceeds from the sale of Paramount Parks of $1.24 billion and proceeds from other dispositions of $142.5 million, principally reflecting the sale of five radio stations in the Buffalo market. These proceeds were partially offset by capital expenditures of $394.1 million, investments in investee companies of $110.0 million, principally consisting of the Companys investment in The CW, and acquisitions of $97.9 million primarily consisting of the acquisition of CSTV Networks and outdoor advertising properties. Capital expenditures increased $75.0 million, or 19%, to $469.1 million in 2007 from $394.1 million in 2006 principally reflecting increased spending for Outdoor transit contracts in the U.K. Capital expenditures increased $67.1 million, or 21%, to $394.1 million in 2006 from $327.0 million in 2005 principally reflecting spending for outdoor advertising structures, buildings and technical equipment. In 2005, cash provided by investing activities from continuing operations of $4.98 billion reflected the $5.4 billion special dividend received from Viacom Inc. as well as proceeds from dispositions of $279.6 million, principally reflecting the sale of television and radio stations. These proceeds were partially offset by capital expenditures of $327.0 million and acquisitions of $462.9 million, primarily reflecting the acquisitions of KOVR TV and KIFR FM. For 2007, capital expenditures were $469.1 million, which includes spending for Outdoor of $186.4 million. For 2008, capital expenditures for the Company are anticipated to be in the range of $500 million to $550 million, principally reflecting increases for high definition television upgrades and other information technology spending. Capital expenditures for Outdoor in 2008 are currently expected to be comparable to 2007; however, spending could vary based on successful bids for new Outdoor contracts. Financing Activities. In 2007, cash flow used for financing activities of $3.78 billion principally reflected the purchase of Company common stock for $3.35 billion, the repayment of notes of $660.0 million and dividend payments of $640.3 million, partially offset by proceeds from the issuance of notes of $678.0 million and proceeds from the exercise of stock options of $201.7 million. In 2006, cash flow used for financing activities of $1.28 billion principally reflected the repayment of notes of $832.0 million and dividend payments of $519.1 million, partially offset by proceeds of $91.1 million from II 21 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Continued) (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) the exercise of stock options. In 2005, cash flow used for financing activities from continuing operations of $7.15 billion principally reflected the purchase of Company common stock for $5.56 billion, repayment of notes and debentures of $1.44 billion and dividend payments of $451.3 million. These uses were partially offset by proceeds from the exercise of stock options of $317.5 million. Dividends The Company declared a quarterly cash dividend on its Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock during each of the four quarters of 2007 and 2006 resulting in total dividends of $667.1 million and $573.2 million, respectively. On February 21, 2008, the Company announced a quarterly cash dividend of $.25 per share on its Class A and Class B Common Stock payable on April 1, 2008. During each of the four quarters of 2005, Former Viacom declared a cash dividend on its class A and class B common stock resulting in total dividends of $440.9 million. Dividends have been recorded as a reduction to "Additional paid in capital" on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as the Company has an accumulated deficit balance. Purchase of Company Stock During 2007, the Company repurchased 106.9 million shares of CBS Corp. Common Stock for $3.42 billion, including $64.0 million of non cash purchases related to a television station exchange (see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements), primarily through two accelerated share repurchase ("ASR") transactions. In January 2008, the Company received 6.0 million shares of CBS Corp. Class B Common Stock upon settlement of the second ASR. During 2006, the Company purchased .2 million shares of its Class B Common Stock that were surrendered by employees to the Company to satisfy their tax withholding obligations from the payment of shares related to the vesting of RSUs. During 2005, Former Viacom purchased 79.6 million shares of class B common stock for $5.46 billion through its $8.0 billion share purchase program. Acquisitions and Dispositions Acquisitions On October 5, 2007, the Company completed the acquisition of SignStorey, Inc., a distributor of video programming and advertising content to retail stores, for $71.5 million. SignStorey, Inc. has been renamed CBS Outernet and has been included as part of the Outdoor segment since the date of acquisition. On May 30, 2007, the Company acquired Last.fm, a global, community based, music discovery website, for approximately $280 million. Last.fm has been included as part of the Television segment since the date of acquisition. On April 4, 2007, the Company completed the acquisition of MaxPreps, Inc., an online high school sports network, for $43.0 million. MaxPreps, Inc. has been included as part of the Television segment since the date of acquisition. On January 5, 2006, the Company completed the acquisition of CSTV Networks, a cable network and online digital sports media company, for a purchase price of approximately $325 million, comprised of 10.2 million shares of CBS Corp. Class B Common Stock and $52 million in cash. CSTV Networks has been included as part of the Television segment since the date of acquisition. II 22  Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Continued) (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) During the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company acquired KIFR FM, a San Francisco radio station, for approximately $95 million. During the second quarter of 2005, the Company acquired KOVR TV, a Sacramento television station, for approximately $285 million. Dispositions On January 10, 2008, the Company completed the sale of seven of its owned television stations in Austin, Salt Lake City, Providence and West Palm Beach to Cerberus Capital Management, L.P. for approximately $185 million. In connection with the agreement to sell these stations, a pre tax impairment charge of $65.2 million was recorded on the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2006 to reduce the carrying value of the allocated goodwill. On April 16, 2007, the Company completed an exchange agreement with Liberty Media Corporation under which the stock of a subsidiary of the Company which held CBS Corp.s Green Bay television station and its satellite television station, valued at $64.0 million, and $169.8 million in cash was exchanged for the 7.6 million shares of CBS Corp. Class B Common Stock held by Liberty Media Corporation. On February 26, 2007, the Company completed the sale of its television station in New Orleans for $4.3 million. During 2007, the Company completed the sales of 34 radio stations in nine of its smaller markets for $543.4 million. During 2006, the Company completed the sale of five radio stations in one small market for $125.0 million. On June 30, 2006, the Company completed the sale of Paramount Parks to Cedar Fair, L.P. for $1.24 billion in cash. Capital Structure At December 31, 2007 2006 Notes payable to banks $ 5.3 $ 3.1 Senior debt (4.625% 8.875% due 2007 2056) 7,015.7 7,006.2 Other notes .8 .8 Obligations under capital leases 108.9 115.2 Total debt 7,130.7 7,125.3 Less discontinued operations debt (a) 43.0 83.0 Total debt from continuing operations 7,087.7 7,042.3 Less current portion 19.1 15.0 Total long term debt from continuing operations, net of current portion $ 7,068.6 $ 7,027.3 (a)Included in "Liabilities of discontinued operations" on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Total debt of $7.13 billion at December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006 was 25% and 23%, respectively, as a percentage of the total capitalization of the Company. The senior debt of CBS Corp. is fully and unconditionally guaranteed by its wholly owned subsidiary, CBS Operations Inc. Senior debt in the amount of $52.2 million of the Companys wholly owned subsidiary, CBS Broadcasting Inc., is not guaranteed. II 23 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Continued) (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) As of December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006, the Companys debt balances included (i) a net unamortized premium of $26.2 million and $29.1 million, respectively, and (ii) a decrease in the carrying value of the debt relating to fair value hedges of $5.0 million and $17.5 million, respectively. On March 27, 2007, CBS Corp. issued $700.0 million of 6.750% senior notes due 2056. Interest on these senior notes is payable quarterly. The senior notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by CBS Operations Inc. and are redeemable, at the Companys option, at any time on or after March 27, 2012, at their principal amount plus accrued interest. For the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, the following debt repurchases and maturities occurred: Debt Repurchases During 2006, the Company repurchased $50.0 million of its 6.625% senior notes due 2011 and $52.2 million of its 7.70% senior notes due 2010, resulting in a pre tax loss on early extinguishment of debt of $6.0 million. Debt Maturities May 1, 2007, 5.625% senior notes, $700.0 million January 30, 2006, 6.40% senior notes, $800.0 million At December 31, 2007, the Companys scheduled maturities of long term debt at face value, including discontinued operations debt and excluding capital leases were as follows: 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 and Thereafter Long term debt $ 3.8 $ .9 $ 1,585.5 $ 950.1 $ 849.8 $ 3,610.5 Credit Facility As of December 31, 2007, the Company had a $3.0 billion revolving credit facility due December 2010 (the "Credit Facility"). The Company, at its option, may also borrow in certain foreign currencies up to specified limits under the Credit Facility. Borrowing rates under the facility are determined at the Companys option at the time of each borrowing and are based generally on the prime rate in the United States or the London Interbank Offer Rate ("LIBOR") plus a margin based on the Companys senior unsecured debt rating. The Company pays a facility fee based on the total amount of the commitments. As of December 31, 2007, the remaining availability under this Credit Facility, net of outstanding letters of credit, was $2.81 billion. The Credit Facility contains covenants, which, among other things, require that the Company maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio. At December 31, 2007, the Company was in compliance with all covenants under the Credit Facility. The primary purpose of the Credit Facility is to support commercial paper borrowings. At December 31, 2007, the Company had no commercial paper borrowings under its $3.0 billion commercial paper program. II 24 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Continued) (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Accounts Receivable Securitization Program As of December 31, 2007, the Company had $550.0 million outstanding under its revolving receivable securitization program. The program results in the sale of receivables on a non recourse basis to unrelated third parties on a one year renewable basis, thereby reducing accounts receivable on the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheets. The Company entered into this arrangement because it provides an additional source of liquidity. Proceeds from this program were used to reduce outstanding borrowings. The terms of the revolving securitization arrangement require that the receivable pools subject to the program meet certain performance ratios. As of December 31, 2007, the Company was in compliance with the required ratios under the receivable securitization program. At December 31, 2006, the Company had $550.0 million outstanding under its revolving receivable securitization programs. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company believes that its operating cash flows from continuing operations ($2.18 billion in 2007), cash and cash equivalents ($1.35 billion at December 31, 2007), borrowing capacity under its committed bank facility (which consisted of an unused revolving Credit Facility of $2.81 billion at December 31, 2007), and access to capital markets are sufficient to fund its operating needs, including commitments and contingencies, capital and investing commitments, dividends and other financing requirements for the foreseeable future. The funding for commitments to purchase sports programming rights, television and film programming, and talent contracts will come primarily from cash flow from operations. The Company continually projects anticipated cash requirements, which include capital expenditures, dividends, acquisitions and principal payments on its outstanding indebtedness, as well as cash flows generated from operating activities available to meet these needs. Any additional net cash funding requirements are financed with short term borrowings (primarily commercial paper) and long term debt. Commercial paper borrowings, which also accommodate day to day changes in funding requirements, are backed by the Credit Facility that may be utilized in the event that commercial paper borrowings are not available. The Companys credit position affords sufficient access to the capital markets to meet the Companys financial requirements. The Company anticipates that future debt maturities will be funded with cash and cash equivalents, and cash flows generated from operating activities and other debt financing. There are no provisions in any of the Companys material financing agreements that would cause an acceleration of the obligation in the event of a downgrade in the Companys debt ratings. The Company filed a shelf registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission registering debt securities, preferred stock and warrants of CBS Corp. that may be issued for aggregate gross proceeds of $5.0 billion. The registration statement was first declared effective on January 8, 2001. The net proceeds from the sale of the offered securities may be used by CBS Corp. for general corporate purposes, including repayment of borrowings, working capital and capital expenditures, or for such other purposes as may be specified in the applicable prospectus supplement. To date, the Company has issued $3.085 billion of securities under the shelf registration statement. II 25 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Continued) (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Contractual Obligations As of December 31, 2007, the Companys significant contractual obligations, including payments due by period, were as follows: Payments Due by Period Total 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 and thereafter Programming and talent commitments (1) $ 11,413.5 $ 3,458.2 $ 4,470.7 $ 2,713.1 $ 771.5 Guaranteed minimum franchise payments (2) $ 2,839.1 $ 444.0 $ 817.1 $ 720.1 $ 857.9 Purchase obligations (3) $ 506.7 $ 188.9 $ 158.1 $ 68.9 $ 90.8 Operating leases (4) $ 2,288.2 $ 329.9 $ 566.8 $ 402.0 $ 989.5 Other long term contractual obligations (5) $ 841.1 $ $ 638.2 $ 174.8 $ 28.1 Long term debt obligations (6) $ 7,000.6 $ 3.8 $ 1,586.4 $ 1,799.9 $ 3,610.5 Interest commitments on long term debt (7) $ 7,633.8 $ 497.9 $ 939.0 $ 620.6 $ 5,576.3 Capital lease obligations (including interest) (8) $ 139.9 $ 22.0 $ 35.0 $ 32.9 $ 50.0 (1)Programming and talent commitments of the Company primarily include $7.47 billion for sports programming rights, $2.47 billion relating to television, radio, and film production and licensing and $973.2 million for talent contracts. (2)Outdoor has franchise rights entitling it to display advertising on media including billboards, transit shelters, buses, rail systems (in car, station platforms and terminals), mall kiosks, stadium signage and in retail stores. Under most of these franchise agreements, the franchisor is entitled to receive the greater of a percentage of the relevant advertising revenues, net of advertising agency fees, or a specified guaranteed minimum annual payment. (3)Purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including open purchase orders. (4)Consists of long term operating lease commitments for office space, billboards, equipment, transponders and studio facilities, including approximately $1.26 billion of billboard lease commitments that are cancelable, in certain circumstances, at the Companys option. (5)Long term contractual obligations including program liabilities, participations due to producers and residuals. (6)Long term debt obligations are presented at face value, including discontinued operations debt. (7)Future interest based on scheduled debt maturities, excluding capital leases. (8)Includes capital leases for satellite transponders. The table above excludes $328.9 million of reserves for uncertain tax positions and the related accrued interest and penalties under FIN 48, as the Company cannot reasonably predict the ultimate amount or timing of cash payments relating to the settlement of these reserves. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Prior to the Separation of Former Viacom into CBS Corp. and Viacom Inc., Former Viacom had entered into guarantees with respect to obligations related to Blockbuster Inc. ("Blockbuster"), including certain Blockbuster store leases; Famous Players theater leases; certain UCI theater leases; and certain theater leases related to W.F. Cinema Holdings L.P. and Graumans Theatres LLC. In connection with the Separation, Viacom Inc. has agreed to indemnify the Company with respect to these guarantees. In addition, the Company and Viacom Inc. have agreed to indemnify each other with respect to certain other matters pursuant to the Separation Agreement between the parties. The Company has indemnification obligations with respect to letters of credit and surety bonds primarily used as security against non performance in the normal course of business. At December 31, 2007, the outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds approximated $402.8 million and were not recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. II 26 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Continued) (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) In the course of its business, the Company both provides and receives indemnities which are intended to allocate certain risks associated with business transactions. Similarly, the Company may remain contingently liable for various obligations of a business that has been divested in the event that a third party does not live up to its obligations under an indemnification obligation. The Company records a liability for its indemnification obligations and other contingent liabilities when probable under generally accepted accounting principles. Critical Accounting Policies Financial Reporting Release No. 60, "Cautionary Advice Regarding Disclosure About Critical Accounting Policies" ("FRR 60"), suggests companies provide additional disclosure and commentary on those accounting policies considered most critical. FRR 60 considers an accounting policy to be critical if it is important to the Companys financial condition and results of operations, and requires significant judgment and estimates on the part of management in its application. For a summary of the Companys significant accounting policies, including the critical accounting policies discussed below, see the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. The preparation of the Companys financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amount of expenses during the reporting period. On an ongoing basis, the Company evaluates its estimates, which are based on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. The result of these evaluations forms the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities and the reported amount of expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions. The following accounting policies require significant management judgments and estimates. The Company accounts for the production and distribution of television programming in accordance with Statement of Position 00 2 "Accounting by Producers or Distributors of Films" ("SOP 00 2"). SOP 00 2 requires managements judgment as it relates to the timing of the establishment of a secondary market for its television programming, and total estimated revenues to be earned and costs to be incurred throughout the life of each television program. These estimates are used to determine the amortization of capitalized television programming, expensing of participation costs, and any necessary net realizable value adjustments to capitalized television programming costs. For each television program, management bases these estimates on the performance of the television programming in the initial markets, the existence of future firm commitments to sell additional episodes of the program, and the past performance of similar television programs. These estimates are updated regularly based on information available as the television program progresses through its life cycle. Overestimating secondary market revenues or a failure to adjust for a downward change in the total estimated revenue could result in the understatement of the amortization of capitalized television programming costs, future net realizable value adjustments and impact the determination of participation expense. The Company accounts for its business acquisitions under the purchase method of accounting. The total cost of acquisitions is allocated to the underlying net assets, based on their respective estimated fair values. The excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the tangible and identifiable intangible net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed requires managements judgment and often involves the use II 27 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Continued) (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) of significant estimates and assumptions, including assumptions with respect to future cash inflows and outflows, discount rates, asset lives, and market multiples, among other items. In accordance with SFAS 142, the Company tests goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment during the fourth quarter of each year, and on an interim date should factors or indicators become apparent that would require an interim test. A significant downward revision in the present value of estimated future cash flows for a reporting unit or intangible assets could result in an impairment under SFAS 142, and a non cash charge would be required. Such a charge could have a material effect on reported net earnings. Balance sheet reserves and liabilities related to legal issues, restructuring charges and discontinued businesses, including asbestos and environmental matters, require significant judgments and estimates by management. The Company continually evaluates these estimates based on changes in the relevant facts and circumstances and events that may impact estimates. While management believes that the current reserves for matters related to predecessor operations of the Company, including environmental and asbestos, are adequate, there can be no assurance that circumstances will not change in future periods. Pension benefit obligations and net periodic pension costs are calculated using many actuarial assumptions. Two key assumptions used in accounting for pension liabilities and expenses are the discount rate and expected rate of return on plan assets. The discount rate reflects the rate at which the pension benefit obligations could effectively be settled. The Company determined the discount rate by projecting the plans expected future benefit payments as defined for the projected benefit obligation. Those projected benefit payments are used to construct a high quality bond portfolio with interest and principal payments that provide the cash flows necessary to meet the projected benefit payments. The projected benefit payments are discounted by the weighted average yield of the bond portfolio. The expected return on plan assets assumption was derived using the current and expected asset allocation of the pension plan assets and considering historical as well as expected returns on various classes of plan assets. For 2007, the unrecognized actuarial losses decreased primarily due to an increase in the discount rate partially offset by lower than expected return from plan assets. For 2006, the unrecognized actuarial losses decreased primarily due to an increase in the discount rate as well as higher than expected return from plan assets. A decrease in the discount rate or a decrease in the expected rate of return on plan assets would increase pension expense. The estimated impact of a 25 basis point change in the discount rate would be a change of approximately $5 million on 2008 pension expense and will change the projected benefit obligation by approximately $110 million. The estimated impact of a 25 basis point change in the expected rate of return on plan assets is a change of approximately $10 million in 2008 pension expense. The Company is subject to income taxes in both the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining the worldwide provision for income taxes. When recording the worldwide provision for income taxes, an estimated effective tax rate for a year is applied to interim operating results. In the event there is a significant or unusual item recognized in the quarterly operating results, the tax attributable to that item is separately calculated and recorded in the same quarter. A number of years may elapse before a tax return containing tax matters, for which a reserve has been established, is audited and finally resolved. During 2007 and 2006, the Company recognized tax benefits of $8.0 million and $164.1 million, respectively, related to the settlement of certain prior year tax audits. In accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109" ("FIN 48"), the Company evaluates a tax position to II 28 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Continued) (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) determine whether it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained upon examination, based on the technical merits of the position. A tax position that meets the more likely than not recognition threshold is subject to a measurement assessment to determine the amount of benefit to recognize in the Consolidated Statement of Operations and the appropriate reserve to establish, if any. If a tax position does not meet the more likely than not recognition threshold a tax reserve is established and no benefit is recognized. The Company is continually audited by U.S. federal and state as well as foreign tax authorities. While it is often difficult to predict the final outcome or the timing of resolution of any particular tax matter, the Company believes that its reserve for uncertain tax positions of $278.8 million at December 31, 2007 is properly recorded pursuant to the recognition and measurement provisions of FIN 48. In accordance with SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004) "Share Based Payment" ("SFAS 123R"), the Company measures the cost of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the grant date fair value of the award. That cost is recognized over the vesting period during which an employee is required to provide service in exchange for the award. For each award of employee stock options the fair value is estimated on the date of grant using the Black Scholes option pricing model. The determination of the assumptions used in the Black Scholes model requires management to make significant judgments and estimates. The use of different assumptions and estimates in the Black Scholes option pricing model could have a material impact on the estimated fair value of option grants and the related expense. The risk free interest rate is based on a U.S. Treasury rate in effect on the date of grant with a term equal to the expected life. The expected term was determined based on historical employee exercise and post vesting termination behavior. The expected dividend yield is based on the then current annual dividend rate. When calculating expected stock price volatility, the Company placed exclusive reliance on implied volatility due to the limited amount of trading history for CBS Corp. Class B Common Stock. In addition, given the existence of an actively traded market for CBS Corp. options, the Company was able to derive implied volatility using publicly traded options to purchase CBS Corp. Class B Common Stock that were trading near the grant date of the employee stock options at a similar exercise price and a remaining term of greater than one year. Although there is an active market for these publicly traded CBS Corp. options, the Company believes that due to their short trading history, the volatility of these options alone may not be indicative of expected volatility. As a result, the expected stock price volatility was determined using an average of the implied volatility of these options and the implied volatility of publicly traded options for entities with similar business characteristics within the Companys industry. Legal Matters Shareholder Derivative Lawsuits. Two shareholder derivative lawsuits, consolidated as In re Viacom Inc. Shareholders Derivative Litigation, were filed in July 2005 in New York State Supreme Court relating to executive compensation and alleged corporate waste. The actions named each member of Former Viacoms Board of Directors at the time the actions were filed, the two former Co Presidents and Co Chief Operating Officers of Former Viacom, and, as a nominal defendant, Former Viacom, alleging that the 2004 compensation of such officers and the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Former Viacom was improper. In January 2007, a new shareholder derivative action was filed in New York Supreme Court, which contained allegations similar to those in the earlier actions, and was consolidated with In re Viacom Inc. Shareholders Derivative Litigation. In April 2007, following notice to shareholders, the parties executed a Stipulation of Settlement, which resolved all of these actions. By order and final judgment entered December 3, 2007, the court approved the Stipulation of Settlement and dismissed the action with prejudice. The Company and Viacom Inc. have agreed to equally share all costs and expenses relating to this matter. II 29  Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Continued) (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Claims Related to Former Businesses: Asbestos, Environmental and Other. The Company is a defendant in lawsuits claiming various personal injuries related to asbestos and other materials, which allegedly occurred principally as a result of exposure caused by various products manufactured by Westinghouse, a predecessor, generally prior to the early 1970s. Westinghouse was neither a producer nor a manufacturer of asbestos. The Company is typically named as one of a large number of defendants in both state and federal cases. In the majority of asbestos lawsuits, the plaintiffs have not identified which of the Companys products is the basis of a claim. Claims against the Company in which a product has been identified principally relate to exposures allegedly caused by asbestos containing insulating material in turbines sold for power generation, industrial and marine use, or by asbestos containing grades of decorative micarta, a laminate used in commercial ships. Claims are frequently filed and or settled in large groups, which may make the amount and timing of settlements, and the number of pending claims, subject to significant fluctuation from period to period. The Company does not report as pending those claims on inactive, stayed, deferred or similar dockets which some jurisdictions have established for claimants who allege minimal or no impairment. As of December 31, 2007, the Company had pending approximately 72,120 asbestos claims, as compared with approximately 73,310 as of December 31, 2006 and approximately 101,170 as of December 31, 2005. Of the claims pending as of December 31, 2007, approximately 40,520 were pending in state courts, 28,100 in federal courts and, additionally, approximately 3,500 were third party claims pending in state courts. During 2007, the Company received approximately 4,590 new claims and closed or moved to an inactive docket approximately 5,780 claims. The Company reports claims as closed when it becomes aware that a dismissal order has been entered by a court or when the Company has reached agreement with the claimants on the material terms of a settlement. Settlement costs depend on the seriousness of the injuries that form the basis of the claim, the quality of evidence supporting the claims and other factors. The Companys total costs for the years 2007 and 2006 for settlement and defense of asbestos claims after insurance recoveries and net of tax benefits were approximately $17.5 million and $5.7 million, respectively. The Companys costs for settlement and defense of asbestos claims may vary year to year as insurance proceeds are not always recovered in the same period as the insured portion of the expenses. Filings include claims for individuals suffering from mesothelioma, a rare cancer, the risk of which is allegedly increased primarily by exposure to asbestos; lung cancer, a cancer which may be caused by various factors, one of which is alleged to be asbestos exposure; other cancers, and conditions that are substantially less serious, including claims brought on behalf of individuals who are asymptomatic as to an allegedly asbestos related disease. Claims identified as cancer remain a small percentage of asbestos claims pending at December 31, 2007. In a substantial number of the pending claims, the plaintiff has not yet identified the claimed injury. The Company believes that its reserves and insurance are adequate to cover its asbestos liabilities. The Company from time to time receives claims from federal and state environmental regulatory agencies and other entities asserting that it is or may be liable for environmental cleanup costs and related damages principally relating to historical and predecessor operations of the Company. In addition, the Company from time to time receives personal injury claims including toxic tort and product liability claims (other than asbestos) arising from historical operations of the Company and its predecessors. Indecency Regulation. In March 2006, the FCC released certain decisions relating to indecency complaints against certain of the Companys owned television stations and affiliated stations. The FCC ordered the Company to pay a forfeiture of $550,000 in the proceeding relating to the broadcast of a Super Bowl half time show by the Companys television stations. In May 2006, the FCC denied the Companys petition for reconsideration. In July 2006, the Company filed a Petition for Review of the forfeiture with II 30 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Continued) (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit and paid the $550,000 forfeiture in order to facilitate the Companys ability to bring the appeal. Oral argument was heard in September 2007. The Company is awaiting the courts decision. In March 2006, the FCC also notified the Company and certain affiliates of the CBS Television Network of apparent liability for forfeitures relating to a broadcast of the program Without a Trace. The FCC proposed to assess a forfeiture of $32,500 against each of these stations, totaling $260,000 for the Companys owned stations. The Company is contesting the FCC decision and the proposed forfeitures. In June 2007, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit vacated the FCCs November 2006 finding that the broadcast of fleeting and isolated expletives on another broadcast network was indecent and remanded the case to the FCC. In November 2007, the FCC sought review of the courts decision with the U.S. Supreme Court, which petition for review is pending. On February 1, 2008, the Company and others filed oppositions to the FCCs petition. Additionally, the Company, from time to time, has received and may receive in the future letters of inquiry from the FCC prompted by complaints alleging that certain programming on the Companys broadcasting stations included indecent material. General. On an ongoing basis, the Company defends itself in numerous lawsuits and proceedings and responds to various investigations and inquiries from federal, state and local authorities (collectively, "litigation"). Litigation is inherently uncertain and always difficult to predict. However, based on its understanding and evaluation of the relevant facts and circumstances, the Company believes that the above described legal matters and other litigation to which it is a party are not likely, in the aggregate, to have a material adverse effect on its results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Under the Separation Agreement between the Company and Viacom Inc., the Company and Viacom Inc. have agreed to defend and indemnify the other in certain litigation in which the Company and or Viacom Inc. is named. Market Risk The Company is exposed to market risk related to foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. The Company uses derivative financial instruments to modify its exposure to market risks from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. In accordance with its policy, the Company does not use derivative instruments unless there is an underlying exposure and, therefore, the Company does not hold or enter into derivative financial instruments for speculative trading purposes. Foreign Exchange Risk The Company conducts business with companies in various countries outside the United States, resulting in exposure to movements in foreign exchange rates when translating from the foreign local currency to the U.S. dollar. In order to hedge anticipated cash flows and foreign currency balances in currencies such as the British Pound, the Euro, the Canadian Dollar, the Mexican Peso and the Australian Dollar, foreign currency forward and option contracts are used. Additionally, the Company designates forward contracts used to hedge projected future production costs as cash flow hedges, and may designate certain forward contracts as a hedge of the foreign currency exposure of a net investment in a foreign operation. The change in fair value of the non designated contracts is included in current period results as part of "Other items, net." The Company manages the use of foreign exchange derivatives centrally. At December 31, 2007, the notional amount of all foreign exchange contracts was $100.3 million, which represents hedges of underlying foreign currency balances and expected foreign currency cash flows. At II 31 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Continued) (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) December 31, 2006, the notional amount of all foreign exchange contracts was $225.9 million, of which $16.8 million related to the hedging of future production costs. The remaining $209.1 million represented hedges of underlying foreign currency balances and expected foreign currency cash flows. Interest Rate Risk All of the Companys long term debt has been issued under fixed interest rate agreements. The Company has entered into fixed to floating rate swap agreements for a portion of this debt, which are designated as fair value hedges. These swaps expose the Company to movements in short term interest rates. Based on the amount of fixed to floating rate swaps and a receivable securitization program outstanding at December 31, 2007, a 100 basis point change in interest rates would cause a $15.5 million change to pre tax earnings. As of December 31, 2007, if all parties were to agree, the swaps could have been terminated by a net payment from the Company of approximately $5.0 million including accrued interest. At both December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company was a party to $1.0 billion notional amount of interest rate swaps, which are accounted for as fair value hedges. The Company did not have any interest rate cash flow hedges outstanding at December 31, 2007 and 2006. Credit Risk The Company continually monitors its positions with, and credit quality of, the financial institutions which are counterparties to its financial instruments. The Company is exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties to the agreements. However, the Company does not anticipate nonperformance by the counterparties. The Companys receivables do not represent significant concentrations of credit risk at December 31, 2007 or 2006, due to the wide variety of customers, markets and geographic areas to which the Companys products and services are sold. Related Parties National Amusements, Inc. National Amusements, Inc. ("NAI") is the controlling stockholder of CBS Corp. Mr. Sumner M. Redstone, the controlling stockholder, chairman of the board of directors and chief executive officer of NAI, is the Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors and founder of both CBS Corp. and Viacom Inc. At December 31, 2007, NAI beneficially owned CBS Corp. Class A Common Stock representing approximately 79% of the voting power of all classes of CBS Corp.s Common Stock, and owned approximately 13% of CBS Corp.s Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock on a combined basis. On October 28, 2004, Former Viacom entered into an agreement (the "NAIRI Agreement") with NAI and NAIRI, Inc. ("NAIRI"), a wholly owned subsidiary of NAI, pursuant to which Former Viacom agreed to buy, and NAI and NAIRI agreed to sell, a number of shares of Class B Common Stock each month such that the ownership percentage of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock (considered as a single class) held by NAI and or NAIRI would not increase as a result of purchases of its shares by Former Viacom under its $8.0 billion stock purchase program announced in October 2004. Pursuant to this agreement, Former Viacom purchased 9.2 million shares of Former Viacom class B common stock from NAIRI for $628.9 million in 2005. The Company did not make any purchases under this stock purchase program during 2007 and 2006. Viacom Inc. For purposes of governing certain ongoing relationships between CBS Corp. and Viacom Inc. after the Separation, the Company and Viacom Inc. entered into various agreements II 32 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Continued) (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) including a separation agreement (the "Separation Agreement"), tax matters agreement and transition services agreement. In accordance with the terms of the Separation Agreement, Viacom Inc. paid to the Company an estimated special dividend of $5.4 billion in December 2005, subject to adjustment. During 2006, Viacom Inc. paid to the Company the net undisputed adjustment to the special dividend of $172 million plus net interest of $3.1 million. In January 2007, CBS Corp. and Viacom Inc. resolved the remaining disputed items with respect to the special dividend and Viacom Inc. paid to the Company an additional $170 million, resulting in an aggregate adjustment to the special dividend of $342 million. During July 2007, the Company purchased 869,145 shares of CBS Corp. Class A and Class B Common Stock from the Viacom Inc. 401(k) Plan for $29.8 million and Viacom Inc. purchased 2,823,178 shares of Viacom Inc. class A and class B common stock from the 401(k) plans sponsored by the Company for $120.0 million. CBS Corp., through its normal course of business, is involved in transactions with companies owned by or affiliated with Viacom Inc. CBS Corp., through its Television segment, licenses its television products to Viacom Inc., primarily MTV Networks and BET. In addition, CBS Corp. recognizes advertising revenues for media spending placed by various subsidiaries of Viacom Inc., primarily Paramount Pictures. Paramount Pictures also distributes certain of the Companys television products in the home entertainment market. CBS Corp.s total revenues from these transactions were $292.0 million, $222.8 million and $173.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. CBS Corp., through Showtime Networks and CBS Television, pays license fees to Viacom Inc., primarily Paramount Pictures, for motion picture programming. These license fees are initially recorded as programming inventory and amortized over the shorter of the life of the license agreement or projected useful life of the programming. In addition, CBS Corp. places advertisements with various subsidiaries of Viacom Inc. The total amounts from these transactions were $172.4 million, $198.7 million and $153.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The following table presents the amounts due from or due to Viacom Inc. in the normal course of business as reflected on CBS Corp.s Consolidated Balance Sheets: At December 31, 2007 2006 Amounts due from Viacom Inc. Receivables $ 114.8 $ 187.2 Other assets (Receivables, noncurrent) 207.3 260.7 Total amounts due from Viacom Inc. $ 322.1 $ 447.9 Amounts due to Viacom Inc. Accounts payable $ 4.7 $ 5.2 Program rights 74.3 56.1 Other liabilities (Program rights, noncurrent) 24.3 10.7 Total amounts due to Viacom Inc. $ 103.3 $ 72.0 Other Related Parties The Company owned approximately 18% of Westwood One as of December 31, 2007, which is accounted for by the Company as an equity investment. One member of Westwood Ones current board of directors is an employee of the Company. CBS Radio receives compensation for providing management services to Westwood One pursuant to a Management II 33 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Continued) (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Agreement. Westwood One and CBS Radio also are parties to a Representation Agreement (including a related News Programming Agreement, Trademark License Agreement and Technical Services Agreement) pursuant to which Westwood One operates the CBS Radio Network and CBS Radio is paid an annual fee. The Management Agreement and Representation Agreement expire on March 31, 2009. Certain of the Companys radio stations and Westwood One have affiliation agreements pursuant to which such radio stations air programs and or commercials supplied by Westwood One and, in return, the stations receive affiliation fees and certain programming cost reimbursements. All such agreements are collectively referred to as the "Existing Agreements". CBS Television also has arrangements with Westwood One to provide news and sports programming to Westwood One. Revenues from the Existing Agreements and these arrangements were $71.6 million, $75.6 million and $81.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. On October 2, 2007, CBS Radio and Westwood One entered into definitive agreements relating to the termination, modification and extension of the Existing Agreements (the "new agreements"). Certain of the new agreements, including the Technical Services Agreement, the News Programming Agreement, the Trademark License Agreement and the affiliation agreements, are extended for a term expiring March 31, 2017. Generally, the new agreements will have no force or effect unless and until closing takes place pursuant to the terms of the new agreements. The closing of the new agreements is subject to certain closing conditions. The arrangements contemplated by the new agreements include, among other things, termination of the Representation Agreement and Management Agreement, which includes relinquishment of any representation on the Westwood One board of directors and termination of the Companys outstanding warrants to acquire shares of Westwood One common stock, which are currently out of the money. The Company owns 50% of The CW, which is accounted for by the Company as an equity investment. CBS Corp, through the Television segment, licenses its television products to The CW resulting in total revenues of $107.0 million and $53.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The Company, through the normal course of business, is involved in transactions with other related parties that have not been material in any of the periods presented. Adoption of New Accounting Standards Effective January 1, 2007, the Company adopted FIN 48, which clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes by prescribing a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. In addition, FIN 48 provides guidance on derecognition of income tax positions, classification of income tax liabilities, accounting for interest and penalties associated with unrecognized tax benefits, accounting for uncertain tax positions in interim periods, and income tax disclosures. The adoption of FIN 48 on January 1, 2007 did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. Recent Pronouncements In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, "Fair Value Measurements" ("SFAS 157"), effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007 and interim periods within those fiscal years. SFAS 157 establishes a framework for measuring fair value under generally accepted accounting principles and expands disclosures about fair value measurement. The adoption of SFAS 157 is not expected to have a material effect on the Companys consolidated financial statements. The provisions of SFAS 157 will be applied prospectively to fair value measurements and disclosures beginning in the first quarter of 2008. II 34 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (Continued) (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159 "The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115" ("SFAS 159") effective as of the beginning of the first fiscal year that begins after November 15, 2007. SFAS 159 permits entities to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in earnings each reporting period. The adoption of this standard is not expected to have an effect on the Companys consolidated financial statements. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007) "Business Combinations" ("SFAS 141R"), effective for business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after December 15, 2008. SFAS 141R establishes principles and requirements for how an acquirer recognizes and measures goodwill, identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree. SFAS 141R also expands disclosure requirements for business combinations. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160 "Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements an amendment of ARB No. 51" ("SFAS 160") effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning on or after December 15, 2008. SFAS 160 establishes accounting and reporting standards for the noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary and for the deconsolidation of a subsidiary. The adoption of SFAS 160 is not expected to have a material effect on the Companys consolidated financial statements. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. Response to this is included in "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition Market Risk." II 35  
 
