FILE:CHRW/CHRW-8K-20050805164328.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act(17CFR240.14a-12) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act(17CFR240.14d-2(b)) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act(17CFR240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 5.02.    Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
(d) On August 5, 2005, the Board of Directors of C. H. Robinson Worldwide, Inc. (the "Company") elected a new director, Kenneth E. Keiser. Keiser, 54, is president and chief operating officer of PepsiAmericas, the second largest Pepsi bottler. Keiser has served as president and COO of PepsiAmericas, which is publicly traded (NYSE: PAS), since 1998. A press release dated August 5, 2005, announcing Keiser's election to the Company's Board of Directors is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated here in by reference.
 
 
Item 9.01.    Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c) The following exhibit is being filed with this report.
    99.1 Press Release, dated August 5, 2005, of C.H. Robinson Worldwide, Inc.
 
 
Pursuant to the Requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the Undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

C.H. Robinson Worldwide, Inc.
8100 Mitchell Road, Suite 1700
Eden Prairie, MN 55344
Contact: Angie Freeman, director of investor relations (952) 937-7847
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
MINNEAPOLIS, August 5, 2005-- C.H. Robinson Worldwide, Inc. ("C.H. Robinson") (Nasdaq: CHRW) announced today that its Board of Directors has elected a new director, Kenneth E. Keiser. Keiser, 54, is president and chief operating officer of PepsiAmericas, the second largest Pepsi bottler. Keiser has served as president and COO of PepsiAmericas, which is publicly traded (NYSE: PAS), since 1998.
"We're very pleased that Ken has joined C.H. Robinson's Board," said Brian P. Short, C.H. Robinson independent director and chair of the Board's Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. "He brings executive leadership experience with a successful, publicly traded company and a strong background in operations in both North America and Europe. His management skills and expertise will serve the company and Robinson's shareholders well."
 
Prior to his current position, for eight years Keiser was president and chief operating officer of Delta Beverage Company, which merged with PepsiAmericas in 1998. He also worked for 14 years with the Pepsi-Cola Bottling Group where he held a variety of positions in sales and operations. Keiser has served as a Director for Champion Air in Minneapolis and on the Executive Committee of the Minnesota Twins. Keiser holds a Bachelor of Arts from Michigan State University and served in the U.S. Army.
Founded in 1905, C.H. Robinson Worldwide, Inc. had gross revenues of approximately $4.3 billion in 2004 and is a global provider of multimodal transportation services, logistics solutions and fresh produce sourcing. The company serves over 18,000 customers through a network of 178 offices in North America, Europe, South America and Asia. In North America, C.H. Robinson is one of the largest third-party logistics companies and maintains the single largest network of motor carrier capacity worldwide through contracts with approximately 35,000 motor carriers. The company is one of the largest third-party providers of intermodal services in the United States. C.H. Robinson Worldwide, Inc. headquarters is in Eden Prairie, Minnesota. For more information about C.H. Robinson, visit www.chrobinson.com.
 
 
 
 
C.H. Robinson Worldwide
August 5, 2005
Page 2 of 2
 
 
 
Except for the historical information contained herein, the matters set forth in this release are forward-looking statements that represent our expectations, beliefs, intentions or strategies concerning future events. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our historical experience or our present expectations, including, but not limited to such factors as market demand and pressures on the pricing for our services; competition and growth rates within the third-party logistics industry; freight levels and availability of truck capacity or alternative means of transporting freight, and changes in relationships with existing truck, rail, ocean and air carriers; changes in our customer base due to possible consolidation among our customersour ability to integrate the operations of acquired companies with our historic operations successfully; risks associated with litigation and insurance coverage; risks associated with operations outside of the U.S.; changing economic conditions such as general economic slowdown, decreased consumer confidence, fuel shortages and the impact of war on the economy; and other risks and uncertainties detailed in our Annual and Quarterly Reports.
;
 
 
 


