FILE:CHRW/CHRW-8K-20061206170018.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 8.01.    Other Events
 
C.H. Robinson Worldwide, Inc. ("C.H. Robinson") (Nasdaq: CHRW) announced today that it has acquired certain assets of Triune Freight Private Ltd. and Triune Logistics Private Ltd., collectively ("Triune"), a third party logistics provider based in India.
 
 
Item 9.01.    Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
99.1 Press Release dated December 1, 2006.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

December 1, 2006
FROM:
C.H. Robinson Worldwide, Inc.
8100 Mitchell Road, Suite 200
Eden Prairie, Minnesota 55344
Chad Lindbloom, vice president and chief financial officer (952) 937-7779
Angie Freeman, director of investor relations (952) 937-7847
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
MINNEAPOLIS, December 1, 2006 -- C.H. Robinson Worldwide, Inc. ("C.H. Robinson") (Nasdaq: CHRW) announced today that it has acquired certain assets of Triune Freight Private Ltd. and Triune Logistics Private Ltd., collectively ("Triune"), a third party logistics provider based in India. Triune has approximately160 employees in 19 offices throughout India, and has annual gross revenues of approximately $11 million.
Triune has more than 600 customers and provides primarily air and ocean international forwarding along with customs clearance services. They also have a projects division focused on highly specialized movements and solutions. Like C.H. Robinson, Triune is non-asset based. Headquartered in Chennai, Triune was founded in 1999 and is privately held; terms of the acquisition were not disclosed.
"Further expansion of our international freight forwarding network is one of our core growth strategies, and Triune is an excellent introduction for us into one of the world's fastest-growing economies," said Jeff Scovill, C.H. Robinson vice president of international. "They are a great company with a driven, service-oriented team of people and a well-balanced mix of forwarding services and customers. With Triune on board we can offer full coverage from northern to southern India, and we have a key platform to develop the C.H. Robinson network further into Southeast Asia."
In addition to acquiring selected assets of Triune, C.H. Robinson has offered employment to all of its existing employees. T.J. Srinivasaraj, 36, the managing director of Triune, will continue with the company as C.H. Robinson's director of Indian subcontinent.
"We are very excited to be joining C.H. Robinson and its international freight forwarding network," said Srinivasaraj. "The transportation market in India is growing very quickly, and C.H. Robinson's global network of owned offices and financial strength will enable us to provide our customers with tailor-made global solutions through our expanded capabilities. The company cultures are very similar and we are happy to be joining hands as together we expand our presence in the international forwarding marketplace."
C.H. Robinson Acquires India-Based Freight Forwarder
December 1, 2006
Page 2 of 2
 
 
Founded in 1905, C.H. Robinson Worldwide, Inc., is one of the largest non-asset based third party logistics companies in the world, with 2005 gross revenues of $5.7 billion. C.H. Robinson is a global provider of multimodal transportation services and logistics solutions, currently serving over 20,500 customers through a network of over 210 offices in North America, South America, Europe, and Asia. C.H. Robinson maintains one of the largest networks of motor carrier capacity in North America and works with approximately 40,000 carriers worldwide.
Except for the historical information contained herein, the matters set forth in this release are forward-looking statements that represent our expectations, beliefs, intentions or strategies concerning future events. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our historical experience or our present expectations, including, but not limited to such factors as market demand and pressures on the pricing for our services; competition and growth rates within the third-party logistics industry; freight levels and availability of truck capacity or alternative means of transporting freight, and changes in relationships with existing truck, rail, ocean and air carriers; changes in our customer base due to possible consolidation among our customers; our ability to integrate the operations of acquired companies with our historic operations successfully; risks associated with litigation and insurance coverage; risks associ ated with operations outside of the U.S.; risks associated with the produce industry, including food safety and contamination issues; changing economic conditions such as general economic slowdown, decreased consumer confidence, fuel shortages and the impact of war on the economy; and other risks and uncertainties detailed in our Annual and Quarterly Reports.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


