FILE:CHRW/CHRW-8K-20120926162053.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(d) On September 24, 2012, Mary J. Steele Guilfoile was elected to the board of directors of C.H. Robinson Worldwide, Inc. (the "Company") effective as of October 1, 2012, filling a new position on the on the board of directors. Ms. Guilfoile currently serves as chairman of MG Advisors, Inc., a privately owned financial services merger and acquisition advisory and consulting services firm where she has served since 2002. Prior to joining MG Advisors in 2002, Ms. Guilfoile spent twelve years with JP Morgan Chase and its predecessor companies, Chase Manhattan Corporation and Chemical Banking Corporation, as executive vice president, corporate treasurer, and chief administrative officer for its investment bank, and various merger integration, executive management and strategic planning positions.
Ms. Guilfoile will serve in the class of directors whose terms shall expire at the Company's 2013 annual meeting of stockholders. In addition, Ms. Guilfoile will be a member of the governance committee of the board.
A copy of the press release announcing Ms. Guilfoile's appointment to the board is furnished, but not filed, as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: September 26, 2012
 

Exhibit 99.1
C.H. Robinson Worldwide, Inc.
14701 Charlson Road
Eden Prairie, MN 55347
Contact: Angie Freeman, vice president (952) 937-7847
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
MINNEAPOLIS, September 26, 2012  C.H. Robinson Worldwide, Inc. (Nasdaq: CHRW) announced today that its Board of Directors has appointed a new director, Mary J. Steele Guilfoile, effective October 1, 2012. Guilfoile, 58, currently is chairman of MG Advisors, Inc., a privately owned financial services merger and acquisition advisory and consulting services firm.
"Mary is an excellent addition to our Board," said John P. Wiehoff, chairman and chief executive officer of C.H. Robinson. "Mary's extensive leadership experience at large corporations, financial acumen, and business development knowledge will be a significant benefit to our shareholders. She is also an experienced director and brings board governance expertise. We're very pleased to have her as a director."
Prior to joining MG Advisors in 2002, Guilfoile spent twelve years with JP Morgan Chase and its predecessor companies, Chase Manhattan Corporation and Chemical Banking Corporation, as executive vice president, corporate treasurer, and chief administrative officer for its investment bank, and various merger integration, executive management and strategic planning positions.
Guilfoile currently serves on the boards of The Interpublic Group of Companies (IPG), where she is chairman of the Audit Committee, and Valley National Bancorp (VLY). Guilfoile earned her Master of Business Administration from Columbia University Graduate School of Business, and her bachelor's degree from Boston College.
Founded in 1905, C.H. Robinson Worldwide, Inc., is a global provider of multimodal transportation services and logistics solutions, serving over 37,000 customers through a network of 234 offices in North America, Europe, Asia, South America, and Australia. C.H. Robinson is one of the largest third-party logistics companies in the world, with annual total revenues of over $10 billion. For more information about our company, visit our Web site at .
www.chrobinson.com


