FILE:ISRG/ISRG-8K-20060616172935.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 19, 2006, the board of directors of Intuitive Surgical, Inc. (the Company and we, us and our) approved adjustments to compensation for our outside directors as indicated below, effective immediately.
Cash Payments
 
 
Automatic Option Grants
 
Currently, our non-employee directors are automatically granted options to purchase shares of our common stock pursuant to the terms of our 2000 Non-Employee Directors Stock Option Plan, as amended (the Plan). Our board of directors approved an amendment of the Plan to provide for a decrease in the number of options granted annually to our non-employee directors.
 
Under the Plan prior to its most recent amendment, (i) each person who became a non-employee director would be granted on the date on which he or she first became a non-employee director an Initial Option to purchase 15,000 shares of our common stock on the date of such initial election (the Initial Option) and (ii) each person who is a non-employee director automatically would be granted an additional option to purchase 7,500 shares of the our common stock (a Subsequent Option) on the date of each annual meeting of stockholders immediately following which such director was serving on our board of directors, provided that, on such date, he or she shall have served on our board of directors for at least six (6) months prior to the date of such annual meeting.
 
Under the Plan as most recently amended, (i) the Initial Option will remain the same and (ii) the Subsequent Option will be decreased to 5,000 shares of our common stock on the date of each annual meeting of stockholders immediately following which such director is serving on our board of directors, provided that, on such date, he or she shall have served on our board of directors for at least six (6) months prior to the date of such annual meeting.
 
 
In addition, prior to the most recent amendment, the non-employee directors who served as the chairman of a board committee were granted additional options to purchase 2,500 shares of our common stock. This additional option grant has been removed from the Plan as most recently amended.
 
The following chart summarizes the changes described above:
 
 
Except as described above, the Plans provisions remain unchanged. The foregoing description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Plan and its amendments, which are filed hereto and incorporated by reference into this report.
 
(c)Exhibits.
   
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: June 16, 2006
 
 


