FILE:ISRG/ISRG-8K-20081202170048.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(e) Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
Intuitive Surgical, Inc. Severance Plan
On December 1, 2008, the Board of Directors of Intuitive Surgical, Inc. (the "Company") approved and adopted the Company's Severance Plan (the "Severance Plan") under which all eligible employees of the Company who have been employed by the Company at least six months prior to the separation from service date, including executive officers, are entitled to severance benefits in the event of an involuntary separation from service within 12 months after a change in control of the Company. Under the terms of the Severance Plan, eligible employees would be entitled to receive, upon a qualified involuntary termination within 12 months after a change in control of the Company:
(i) a cash payment in the amount equal to the sum of six months of such eligible employee's base compensation (defined in the Severance Plan as base salary and target bonus) plus an additional one month of base compensation for every year of such eligible employee's service with the Company, such severance not to exceed 12 months;
(ii) six months of COBRA premiums, provided that such eligible employee elects continued coverage under COBRA; and
(iii) 100% vesting of all outstanding unvested equity awards that the eligible employee then holds.
Under the terms of the Severance Plan, if it is determined that any payment or benefit would constitute a parachute payment under Section 280G of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code") and would be subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Code, then such payments or benefits shall be reduced to the extent necessary so that no portion thereof shall be subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Code but only if, by reason of such reduction, the net after-tax benefit received by the eligible employee shall exceed the net after-tax benefit received by such eligible employee if no such reduction was made.
The foregoing description of the Severance Plan is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Severance Plan, which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
The following exhibit is furnished with this report on Form 8-K:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
Introduction
It is expected that Intuitive Surgical, Inc. (herein, the "Company") from time to time will consider the possibility of an acquisition by another company or other change of control. The Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board") recognizes that such consideration can be a distraction to employees and can cause such employees to consider alternative employment opportunities. The Board has determined that it is the best interests of the Company and its shareholders to assure that the Company will have the continued dedication and objectivity of the employees, notwithstanding the possibility, threat or occurrence of a Change of Control (as defined below) of the Company.
The Board believes that it is in the best interest of the Company and its shareholders to provide the Company's employees with an incentive to continue their employment and to motivate these employees to maximize the value of the Company upon a Change of Control for the benefit of its shareholders.
The Board believes that it is imperative to provide the employees with certain severance benefits upon termination of employment following a Change of Control which provide these employees with enhanced financial security and provides efficient incentive and encouragement to the employees to remain with the Company notwithstanding the possibility of a Change of Control.
Accordingly, the following plan has been developed and adopted.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In order for a Participant to terminate employment in an Involuntary Termination, he or she must provide notice to the Company of the existence of the condition described in subsection II.1.l., within 30 days of the initial existence of the condition, and the Company shall have 30 days following receipt of such notice to remedy such condition and not make any payments hereunder in connection with such termination of employment.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
employment is terminated by the Participant, the date on which the Participant delivers the Notice of Termination to the Company.
Each Employee who (a) is not entitled to severance benefits and accelerated vesting on a termination of employment related to a Change of Control under another plan or agreement with the Company or an Affiliate, (b) is not, at the effective time of the Change of Control, on a leave of absence as to which reemployment rights are not guaranteed by applicable law and (c) has been an Employee for at least six (6) months prior to the Date of Termination, shall be a Participant in the Plan. Subject to subsection VII.2 hereof, a Participant shall cease to be a Participant in the Plan when he or she ceases to be an Employee, unless such Participant is entitled to payment of a Severance Payment by virtue of such cessation of employment as provided in the Plan. A Participant entitled to payment of a Severance Payment shall remain a Participant in the Plan until the full amount of the Severance Payment has been paid to the Participant.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The notice of denial shall be given within a reasonable time period but no later than ninety (90) days after the claim is filed, unless special circumstances require an extension of time for processing the claim. If such extension is required, written notice shall be furnished to the Claimant within ninety (90) days of the date the claim was filed stating the special circumstances requiring an extension of time and the date by which a decision on the claim can be expected, which shall be no more than one-hundred eighty (180) days from the date the claim was filed.
 
 
 
provided that such appeal specifies each of Claimant's contentions and is made within sixty (60) days of the date the Claimant receives notification of the denied claim. The decision on review shall be made by the Plan Administrator, which may, in its discretion, hold a hearing on the denied claim. The review shall take into account all comments, documents, records and other information submitted by the Claimant relating to the claim, without regard to whether such information was submitted or considered in the initial benefit claim determination.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Intuitive Surgical, Inc.
1266 Kifer Road, Building 101
Sunnyvale, CA 94086
 
General Counsel
Intuitive Surgical, Inc.
1266 Kifer Road, Building 101
Sunnyvale, CA 94086
 
 
 


