FILE:ISRG/ISRG-8K-20090305202101.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On March 4, 2009, Intuitive Surgical, Inc. ("Intuitive") entered into a Master Confirmation and Supplemental Confirmation (the "ASR Agreement") with Goldman, Sachs & Co. ("Goldman") relating to an accelerated share repurchase program (the "ASR Program"). Pursuant to the terms of the ASR Agreement, Intuitive will repurchase $150 million of its common stock from Goldman. This accelerated share repurchase is part of the $300 million share repurchase program authorized by the Intuitive Board of Directors on March 3, 2009.
On March 9, 2009, Intuitive will make a payment of $150 million to Goldman against the delivery of shares by Goldman to it. A majority of the shares owed to the Company by Goldman will be delivered within the first two weeks of the ASR Program. The number of shares to be ultimately repurchased by Intuitive under the ASR Program will be based generally on the average daily volume-weighted average price of Intuitive's common stock during the term of the ASR Agreement. Purchases under the ASR Agreement are subject to collar provisions that will establish minimum and maximum numbers of shares based on the average daily volume-weighted average share price over an initial hedge period. Intuitive expects all ASR Program purchases to be completed by June, although the completion date may be accelerated at Goldman's option. The actual number of shares repurchased will be determined at the completion of the ASR Program.
The ASR Agreement contains the principal terms and provisions governing the ASR Program, including, but not limited to, the mechanism used to determine the number of shares that will be delivered, the required timing of delivery of the shares, the specific circumstances under which Goldman is permitted to make adjustments to valuation periods, the specific circumstances under which the ASR Program may be terminated early, certain specific circumstances under which Goldman may deliver fewer than the minimum number of shares specified by the collar provisions and various acknowledgements, representations and warranties made by Intuitive and Goldman to one another. A copy of the ASR Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and the above summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the ASR Agreement.
 
The information set forth under Item 1.01 of this Report on Form 8-K is hereby incorporated in this Item 2.03 by reference.
 
On March 3, 2009, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Intuitive adopted and approved, effective immediately, the Amended and Restated Bylaws of Intuitive (the "Amended and Restated Bylaws"). The Board's Nominating and Governance Committee previously reviewed these amendments and recommended their adoption to the full Board. The text of the Amended and Restated Bylaws is attached to this Report as Exhibit 3.1, and the descriptions in this Current Report on Form 8-K are qualified in their entirety by reference to that exhibit.
The Amended and Restated Bylaws revise, among other things, the advance notice provisions for stockholder proposals and nominations and were made to ensure such provisions are clear and unambiguous in light of recent Delaware case law developments. Specifically, the Amended and Restated Bylaws include the following revisions:
 
 
 
 
In addition, the Amended and Restated Bylaws:
 
 
 
A copy of Intuitive's press release announcing the $300 million share repurchase program, the ASR Program and the ASR Agreement described in Item 1.01 above is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this Item 7.01, including information incorporated herein by reference, is intended to be furnished and shall not be deemed "Filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 3.1
 
 
 
 
The registered office of the corporation in the State of Delaware shall be in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle.
Section 1. Registered Office
.
The corporation shall also have and maintain an office or principal place of business at such place as may be fixed by the Board of Directors, and may also have offices at such other places, both within and without the State of Delaware as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine or the business of the corporation may require.
Section 2. Other Offices
.
The corporate seal shall consist of a die bearing the name of the corporation and the inscription, "Corporate Seal-Delaware." Said seal may be used by causing it or a facsimile thereof to be impressed or affixed or reproduced or otherwise.
Section 3. Corporate Seal
.
Meetings of the stockholders of the corporation shall be held at such place (if any), either within or without the State of Delaware, as may be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors, or, if not so designated, then at the office of the corporation required to be maintained pursuant to Section 2 hereof; provided, however, that the board of directors may, in its sole discretion, determine that the meeting shall not be held at any place, but may instead be held solely by means of remote communication as provided under the Delaware General Corporation Law ("DGCL").
Section 4. Place Of Meetings
.
Section 5. Annual Meetings.
The annual meeting of the stockholders of the corporation, for the purpose of election of directors and for such other business as may lawfully come before it, shall be held on such date and at such time as may be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors. For nominations or other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a
(a)
 
stockholder, (i) such other business must be a proper matter for stockholder action under the Delaware General Corporation Law ("DGCL"); (ii) if the stockholder, or the beneficial owner on whose behalf any such proposal or nomination is made, has provided the corporation with a Solicitation Notice (as defined in these Sections 5(b)(2)(ii) and 5(c)(2)(ii)), such stockholder or beneficial owner must, in the case of a proposal, have delivered a proxy statement and form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the corporation's voting shares required under applicable law to carry any such proposal, or, in the case of a nomination or nominations, have delivered a proxy statement and form of proxy to holders of a percentage of the corporation's voting shares reasonably believed by such stockholder or beneficial owner to be sufficient to elect the nominee or nominees proposed to be nominated by such stockholder, and must, in either case, have included in such materials the Solicitation Notice, and (iii) if no Solicitation Notice relating thereto has been timely provided pursuant to this section, the stockholder or beneficial owner proposing such business or nomination must not have solicited a number of proxies sufficient to have required the delivery of such a Solicitation Notice under this Section 5.
At an annual meeting of the stockholders, only such business shall be conducted as shall have been properly brought before the meeting. To be properly brought before an annual meeting, business must be (i) brought before the meeting by the corporation and specified in the notice of meeting given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, (ii) brought before the meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, or (iii) otherwise properly brought before the meeting by a stockholder who (A) was a stockholder of record (and, with respect to any beneficial owner, if different, on whose behalf such business is proposed, only if such beneficial owner was the beneficial owner of shares of the corporation) both at the time of giving the notice provided for in this Section 5 and at the time of the meeting, (B) is entitled to vote at the meeting, and (C) has complied with this Section 5 as to such business. Except for proposals properly made in accordance with Rule 14a-8 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder (as so amended and inclusive of such rules and regulations, the "Exchange Act"), and included in the notice of meeting given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, the foregoing clause (iii) shall be the exclusive means for a stockholder to propose business to be brought before an annual meeting of the stockholders. Stockholders shall not be permitted to propose business to be brought before a special meeting of the stockholders, and the only matters that may be brought before a special meeting are the matters specified in the notice of meeting given by or at the direction of the person calling the meeting pursuant to Section 6. Stockholders seeking to nominate persons for election to the Board must comply with Section 5(c) and this Section 5(b) shall not be applicable to nominations except as expressly provided in Section 5(c).
(b) Notice of Business to be Brought Before a Meeting.
Without qualification, for business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder, the stockholder must (i) provide Timely Notice (as defined below) thereof in writing and in proper form to the Secretary of the corporation and (ii) provide any updates or supplements to such notice at the times and in the forms required by this Section 5(b). To be timely, a stockholder's notice must be delivered to, or mailed and received at, the principal executive offices of the corporation not less than ninety (90) days nor more than one hundred twenty (120) days prior to the one-year anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; provided, however, that if the date of the annual meeting is more than thirty (30) days before or more than sixty (60) days after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so delivered, or mailed and received, not later than the ninetieth (90
(1)
th
) day prior
 
to such annual meeting or, if later, the tenth (10
th
) day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such annual meeting was first made (such notice within such time periods, "Timely Notice"). In no event shall any adjournment of an annual meeting or the announcement thereof commence a new time period for the giving of Timely Notice as described above.
To be in proper form for purposes of this Section 5(b), a stockholder's notice to the Secretary shall set forth:
(2)
As to each Proposing Person (as defined below), (A) the name and address of such Proposing Person (including, if applicable, the name and address that appear on the corporation's books and records); and (B) the class or series and number of shares of the corporation that are, directly or indirectly, owned of record or beneficially owned (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) by such Proposing Persons, except that such Proposing Person shall in all events be deemed to beneficially own any shares of any class or series of the corporation as to which such Proposing Person has a right to acquire beneficial ownership at any time in the future (the disclosures to be made pursuant to the foregoing clauses (A) and (B) are referred to as "Stockholder Information");
(i)
As to each Proposing Person, whether such Proposing Person intends to deliver a proxy statement and form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the corporation's voting shares required under applicable law to carry the proposal (an affirmative statement of such intent, a "Solicitation Notice");
(ii)
As to each Proposing Person, (A) any derivative, swap or other transaction or series of transactions engaged in, directly or indirectly, by such Proposing Person, the purpose or effect of which is to give such Proposing Person economic risk similar to ownership of shares of any class or series of the corporation, including due to the fact that the value of such derivative, swap or other transactions are determined by reference to the price, value or volatility of any shares of any class or series of the corporation, or which derivative, swap or other transactions provide, directly or indirectly, the opportunity to profit from any increase in the price or value of shares of any class or series of the corporation ("Synthetic Equity Interests"), which Synthetic Equity Interests shall be disclosed without regard to whether (x) the derivative, swap or other transactions convey any voting rights in such shares to such Proposing Person, (y) the derivative, swap or other transactions are required to be, or are capable of being, settled through delivery of such shares or (z) such Proposing Person may have entered into other transactions that hedge or mitigate the economic effect of such derivative, swap or other transactions, (B) any proxy (other than a revocable proxy or consent given in response to a solicitation made pursuant to, and in accordance with, Section 14(a) of the Exchange Act by way of a solicitation statement filed on Schedule 14A), agreement, arrangement, understanding or relationship pursuant to which such Proposing Person has or shares a right to vote any shares of any class or series of the corporation, (C) any agreement, arrangement, understanding or relationship, including any repurchase or similar so-called "stock borrowing" agreement or arrangement, engaged in, directly or indirectly, by such Proposing Person, the purpose or effect of which is to mitigate loss to, reduce the
(iii)
 
economic risk (of ownership or otherwise) of shares of any class or series of the corporation by, manage the risk of share price changes for, or increase or decrease the voting power of, such Proposing Person with respect to the shares of any class or series of the corporation, or which provides, directly or indirectly, the opportunity to profit from any decrease in the price or value of the shares of any class or series of the corporation ("Short Interests"), (D) any performance related fees (other than an asset based fee) that such Proposing Person is entitled to based on any increase or decrease in the price or value of shares of any class or series of the corporation, or any Synthetic Equity Interests or Short Interests, if any, and (E) any other information relating to such Proposing Person that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filing required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies or consents by such Proposing Person in support of the business proposed to be brought before the meeting pursuant to Section 14(a) of the Exchange Act (the disclosures to be made pursuant to the foregoing clauses (A) through (E) are referred to as "Disclosable Interests"); provided, however, that Disclosable Interests shall not include any such disclosures with respect to the ordinary course business activities of any broker, dealer, commercial bank, trust company or other nominee who is a Proposing Person solely as a result of being the stockholder directed to prepare and submit the notice required by these Bylaws on behalf of a beneficial owner; and
As to each item of business that the stockholder proposes to bring before the annual meeting, (A) a reasonably brief description of the business desired to be brought before the annual meeting, the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting and any material interest in such business of each Proposing Person, (B) the text of the proposal or business (including the text of any resolutions proposed for consideration), and (C) a reasonably detailed description of all agreements, arrangements and understandings (x) between or among any of the Proposing Persons or (y) between or among any Proposing Person and any other record or beneficial holder of the shares of any class or series of the corporation (including their names) in connection with the proposal of such business by such stockholder.
(iv)
For purposes of this Section 5(b), the term "Proposing Personshall mean (i) the stockholder providing the notice of business proposed to be brought before an annual meeting, (ii) the beneficial owner or beneficial owners, if different, on whose behalf the notice of the business proposed to be brought before the annual meeting is made and (iii) any affiliate or associate (each within the meaning of Rule 12b-2 under the Exchange Act for purposes of these Bylaws) of such stockholder or beneficial owner.
"
A stockholder providing notice of business proposed to be brought before an annual meeting shall further update and supplement such notice, if necessary, so that the information provided or required to be provided in such notice pursuant to this Section 5(b) shall be true and correct as of the record date for the meeting and as of the date that is ten (10) business days prior to the meeting or any adjournment or postponement thereof, and such update and supplement shall be delivered to, or mailed and received by, the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the corporation not later than five (5) business days after the record date for the meeting (in the case of the update and supplement required to be made as of the record date), and not later than eight (8) business days prior to the date for the meeting or, if practicable, any
(3)
 
adjournment or postponement thereof (and, if not practicable, on the first practicable date prior to the date to which the meeting has been adjourned or postponed) (in the case of the update and supplement required to be made as of ten (10) business days prior to the meeting or any adjournment or postponement thereof).
Notwithstanding anything in these Bylaws to the contrary, no business shall be conducted at an annual meeting except in accordance with this Section 5(b). The presiding officer of the meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine that the business was not properly brought before the meeting in accordance with this Section 5(b), and if he or she should so determine, he or she shall so declare to the meeting and any such business not properly brought before the meeting shall not be transacted.
(4)
This Section 5(b) is expressly intended to apply to any business proposed to be brought before an annual meeting of stockholders other than any proposal made pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act. In addition to the requirements of this Section 5(b) with respect to any business proposed to be brought before an annual meeting, each Proposing Person shall comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act with respect to any such business. Nothing in this Section 5(b) shall be deemed to affect the rights of stockholders to request inclusion of proposals in the corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act.
(5)
For purposes of these Bylaws, "public announcement" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Sections 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
(6)
Nominations of any person for election to the Board of Directors at an annual meeting or at a special meeting (but only if the election of directors is a matter specified in the notice of meeting given by or at the direction of the person calling such special meeting) may be made at such meeting only (i) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, including by any committee or persons appointed by the Board of Directors, or (ii) by a stockholder who (A) was a stockholder of record (and, with respect to any beneficial owner, if different, on whose behalf such nomination is proposed to be made, only if such beneficial owner was the beneficial owner of shares of the corporation) both at the time of giving the notice provided for in this Section 5(c) and at the time of the meeting, (B) is entitled to vote at the meeting, and (C) has complied with this Section 5(c) as to such nomination. The foregoing clause (ii) shall be the exclusive means for a stockholder to make any nomination of a person or persons for election to the Board of Directors at an annual meeting or special meeting.
(c) Notice of Nominations for Election to the Board of Directors.
Without qualification, for a stockholder to make any nomination of a person or persons for election to the Board of Directors at an annual meeting, the stockholder must (i) provide Timely Notice (as defined in Section 5(b)) thereof in writing and in proper form to the Secretary of the corporation and (ii) provide any updates or supplements to such notice at the times and in the forms required by this Section 5(c). Without qualification, if the election of directors is a matter specified in the notice of meeting given by or at the direction of the person calling such special meeting, then for a stockholder to make any nomination of a person or
(1)
 
persons for election to the Board of Directors at a special meeting, the stockholder must (i) provide timely notice thereof in writing and in proper form to the Secretary of the corporation at the principal executive offices of the corporation, and (ii) provide any updates or supplements to such notice at the times and in the forms required by this Section 5(c). To be timely, a stockholder's notice for nominations to be made at a special meeting must be delivered to, or mailed and received at, the principal executive offices of the corporation not earlier than the one hundred twentieth (120
th
) day prior to such special meeting and not later than the ninetieth (90
th
) day prior to such special meeting or, if later, the tenth (10
th
) day following the day on which public announcement (as defined in Section 5(b)(6)) of the date of such special meeting was first made. In no event shall any adjournment of an annual meeting or special meeting or the announcement thereof commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
To be in proper form for purposes of this Section 5(c), a stockholder's notice to the Secretary shall set forth:
(2)
As to each Nominating Person (as defined below), the Stockholder Information (as defined in Section 5(b)(2)(i), except that for purposes of this Section 5(c) the term "Nominating Person" shall be substituted for the term "Proposing Person" in all places it appears in Section 5(b)(2)(i));
(i)
As to each Nominating Person, whether such Nominating Person intends to deliver a proxy statement and form of proxy to holders of a sufficient number of holders of the corporation's voting shares to elect such nominee or nominees (an affirmative statement of such intent, a "Solicitation Notice");
(ii)
As to each Nominating Person, any Disclosable Interests (as defined in Section 5(b)(2)(iii), except that for purposes of this Section 5(c) the term "Nominating Person" shall be substituted for the term "Proposing Person" in all places it appears in Section 5(b)(2)(iii) and the disclosure in clause (E) of Section 5(b)(2)(iii) shall be made with respect to the election of directors at the meeting);
(iii)
As to each person whom a Nominating Person proposes to nominate for election as a director, (A) all information with respect to such proposed nominee that would be required to be set forth in a stockholder's notice pursuant to this Section 5(c) if such proposed nominee were a Nominating Person, (B) all information relating to such proposed nominee that is required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for election of directors in a contested election pursuant to Section 14(a) under the Exchange Act and Rule 14a-11 thereunder (including such proposed nominee's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected), (C) a description of all direct and indirect compensation and other material monetary agreements, arrangements and understandings during the past three years, and any other material relationships, between or among any Nominating Person, on the one hand, and each proposed nominee, his or her respective affiliates and associates, on the other hand, including, without limitation, all information that would be required to be disclosed pursuant to Item 404 under Regulation S-K if such Nominating Person were the "registrant" for purposes of such rule and the proposed nominee were a director or executive officer of such registrant, and (D) a completed and signed questionnaire, representation and agreement as provided in Section 5(c)(5); and
(iv)
 
The Corporation may require any proposed nominee to furnish such other information (A) as may reasonably be required by the corporation to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as an independent director of the corporation in accordance with the corporation's Corporate Governance Guidelines or (B) that could be material to a reasonable stockholder's understanding of the independence or lack of independence of such proposed nominee.
(v)
For purposes of this Section 5(c), the term "Nominating Person" shall mean (i) the stockholder providing the notice of the nomination proposed to be made at the meeting, (ii) the beneficial owner or beneficial owners, if different, on whose behalf the notice of the nomination proposed to be made at the meeting is made and (iii) any affiliate or associate of such stockholder or beneficial owner.
A stockholder providing notice of any nomination proposed to be made at a meeting shall further update and supplement such notice, if necessary, so that the information provided or required to be provided in such notice pursuant to this Section 5(c) shall be true and correct as of the record date for the meeting and as of the date that is ten (10) business days prior to the meeting or any adjournment or postponement thereof, and such update and supplement shall be delivered to, or mailed and received by, the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the corporation not later than five (5) business days after the record date for the meeting (in the case of the update and supplement required to be made as of the record date), and not later than eight (8) business days prior to the date for the meeting or, if practicable, any adjournment or postponement thereof (and, if not practicable, on the first practicable date prior to the date to which the meeting has been adjourned or postponed) (in the case of the update and supplement required to be made as of ten (10) business days prior to the meeting or any adjournment or postponement thereof).
(3)
Notwithstanding anything in these Bylaws to the contrary, no person shall be eligible for election as a director of the corporation unless nominated in accordance with this Section 5(c). The presiding officer at the meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine that a nomination was not properly made in accordance with this Section 5(c), and if he or she should so determine, he or she shall so declare such determination to the meeting and the defective nomination shall be disregarded.
(4)
To be eligible to be a nominee for election as a director of the corporation, the proposed nominee must deliver (in accordance with the time periods prescribed for delivery of notice under this Section 5(c)) to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the corporation a written questionnaire with respect to the background and qualification of such proposed nominee (which questionnaire shall be provided by the Secretary upon written request) and a written representation nominee (i) is not and will not become a party to (A) any agreement, arrangement or understanding with, and has not given any commitment or assurance to, any person or entity as to how such proposed nominee, if elected as a director of the corporation, will act or vote on any issue or question (a "Voting Commitment") that has not been
(5)
 
disclosed to the corporation or (B) any Voting Commitment that could limit or interfere with such proposed nominee's ability to comply, if elected as a director of the corporation, with such proposed nominee's fiduciary duties under applicable law, (ii) is not, and will not become a party to, any agreement, arrangement or understanding with any person or entity other than the corporation with respect to any direct or indirect compensation, reimbursement or indemnification in connection with service or action as a director that has not been disclosed to the corporation and (iii) in such proposed nominee's individual capacity and on behalf of the stockholder (or the beneficial owner, if different) on whose behalf the nomination is made, would be in compliance, if elected as a director of the corporation, and will comply with applicable publicly disclosed corporate governance, conflict of interest, confidentiality and stock ownership and trading policies and guidelines of the corporationand agreement (in form provided by the Secretary upon written request) that such proposed.
In addition to the requirements of this Section 5(c) with respect to any nomination proposed to be made at a meeting, each Nominating Person shall comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act with respect to any such nominations.
(6)
Notwithstanding anything in the first sentence of Section 5(c) of these Bylaws to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the Board of Directors of the corporation is increased and there is no public announcement naming all of the nominees for director or specifying the size of the increased Board of Directors made by the corporation at least one hundred (100) days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a stockholder's notice required by this Section 5(c) shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for any new positions created by such increase, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the corporation not later than the close of business on the tenth (10th) day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the corporation.
(d)
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 5, in order to include information with respect to a stockholder proposal in the proxy statement and form of proxy for a stockholder's meeting, stockholders must provide notice as required by the regulations promulgated under the 1934 Act. Nothing in these Bylaws shall be deemed to affect any rights of stockholders to request inclusion of proposals in the corporation proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the 1934 Act.
(e)
Section 6. Special Meetings.
Special meetings of the stockholders of the corporation may be called, for any purpose or purposes, by (i) the Chairman of the Board of Directors, (ii) the Chief Executive Officer, or (iii) the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the total number of authorized directors (whether or not there exist any vacancies in previously authorized directorships at the time any such resolution is presented to the Board of Directors for adoption); such special meetings may not be called by any other person or persons. Business transacted at special meetings shall be confined to the purpose or purposes stated in the notice.
 
Except as otherwise provided by law or the Certificate of Incorporation, written notice of each meeting of stockholders shall be given not less than ten (10) nor more than sixty (60) days before the date of the meeting to each stockholder entitled to vote at such meeting, such notice to specify the place (if any), the means of remote communication (if any) by which stockholders and proxy holders may be deemed to be present in person and vote at such meeting, date and hour and purpose or purposes of the meeting. Notice of the time, place (if any), the means of remote communication (if any) and purpose of any meeting of stockholders may be waived in writing or by electronic transmission, signed by the person entitled to notice thereof, either before or after such meeting, and will be waived by any stockholder by his attendance thereat in person or by proxy, except when the stockholder attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened. Any stockholder so waiving notice of such meeting shall be bound by the proceedings of any such meeting in all respects as if due notice thereof had been given.
Section 7. Notice Of Meetings
.
At all meetings of stockholders, except where otherwise provided by statute or by the Certificate of Incorporation, or by these Bylaws, the presence, in person or by proxy duly authorized, of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of stock entitled to vote shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. In the absence of a quorum, any meeting of stockholders may be adjourned, from time to time, either by the chairman of the meeting or by vote of the holders of a majority of the shares represented thereat, but no other business shall be transacted at such meeting. The stockholders present at a duly called or convened meeting, at which a quorum is present, may continue to transact business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough stockholders to leave less than a quorum. Except as otherwise provided by statute, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, in all matters other than the election of directors, the affirmative vote of the majority of shares present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote on the subject matter shall be the act of the stockholders. Except as otherwise provided by statute, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes of the shares present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote on the election of directors. Where a separate vote by a class or classes or series is required, except where otherwise provided by the statute or by the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, a majority of the outstanding shares of such class or classes or series, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum entitled to take action with respect to that vote on that matter and, except where otherwise provided by the statute or by the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, the affirmative vote of the majority (plurality, in the case of the election of directors) of the votes cast by the holders of shares of such class or classes or series shall be the act of such class or classes or series.
Section 8. Quorum
.
Any meeting of stockholders, whether annual or special, may be adjourned from time to time either by the chairman of the meeting or by the vote of a majority of the shares casting votes. When a meeting is adjourned to another time or place, notice need not be given of the adjourned meeting if the time, place (if any), thereof, and the means of remote communication (if any) by which stockholders and proxy holders may be deemed to be present in person and vote at such adjourned meeting are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken. At the adjourned meeting, the corporation may transact any business which might have been transacted at the original meeting. If the adjournment is for more than thirty (30) days or if after the adjournment a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting.
Section 9. Adjournment And Notice Of Adjourned Meetings
.
 
For the purpose of determining those stockholders entitled to vote at any meeting of the stockholders, except as otherwise provided by law, only persons in whose names shares stand on the stock records of the corporation on the record date, as provided in Section 12 of these Bylaws, shall be entitled to vote at any meeting of stockholders. Every person entitled to vote shall have the right to do so either in person or by an agent or agents authorized by a proxy granted in accordance with Delaware law. An agent so appointed need not be a stockholder. No proxy shall be voted after three (3) years from its date of creation unless the proxy provides for a longer period.
Section 10. Voting Rights
.
If shares or other securities having voting power stand of record in the names of two (2) or more persons, whether fiduciaries, members of a partnership, joint tenants, tenants in common, tenants by the entirety, or otherwise, or if two (2) or more persons have the same fiduciary relationship respecting the same shares, unless the Secretary is given written notice to the contrary and is furnished with a copy of the instrument or order appointing them or creating the relationship wherein it is so provided, their acts with respect to voting shall have the following effect: (a) if only one (1) votes, his act binds all; (b) if more than one (1) votes, the act of the majority so voting binds all; (c) if more than one (1) votes, but the vote is evenly split on any particular matter, each faction may vote the securities in question proportionally, or may apply to the Delaware Court of Chancery for relief as provided in the DGCL, Section 217(b). If the instrument filed with the Secretary shows that any such tenancy is held in unequal interests, a majority or even-split for the purpose of subsection (c) shall be a majority or even-split in interest.
Section 11. Joint Owners Of Stock
.
The Secretary shall prepare and make, at least ten (10) days before every meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at said meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder. Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, during ordinary business hours, for a period of at least ten (10) days prior to the meeting, either at a place within the city where the meeting is to be held, which place shall be specified in the notice of the meeting, or, if not specified, at the place where the meeting is to be held. The list shall be produced and kept at the time and place of meeting during the whole time thereof and may be inspected by any stockholder who is present.
Section 12. List Of Stockholders
.
Section 13. Action By Stockholders.
No action shall be taken by the stockholders of the corporation except at an annual or special meeting of the stockholders called in accordance with these Sections 5 and 6. No action shall be taken by the stockholders by written consent.
(a)
 
Section 14. Organization.
At every meeting of stockholders, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, or, if a Chairman has not been appointed or is absent, the President, or, if the President is absent, a chairman of the meeting chosen by a majority in interest of the stockholders entitled to vote, present in person or by proxy, shall act as chairman. The Secretary, or, in his absence, an Assistant Secretary directed to do so by the President, shall act as secretary of the meeting.
(a)
The Board of Directors of the corporation shall be entitled to make such rules or regulations for the conduct of meetings of stockholders as it shall deem necessary, appropriate or convenient. Subject to such rules and regulations of the Board of Directors, if any, the chairman of the meeting shall have the right and authority to prescribe such rules, regulations and procedures and to do all such acts as, in the judgment of such chairman, are necessary, appropriate or convenient for the proper conduct of the meeting, including, without limitation, establishing an agenda or order of business for the meeting, rules and procedures for maintaining order at the meeting and the safety of those present, limitations on participation in such meeting to stockholders of record of the corporation and their duly authorized and constituted proxies and such other persons as the chairman shall permit, restrictions on entry to the meeting after the time fixed for the commencement thereof, limitations on the time allotted to questions or comments by participants and regulation of the opening and closing of the polls for balloting on matters which are to be voted on by ballot. Unless and to the extent determined by the Board of Directors or the chairman of the meeting, meetings of stockholders shall not be required to be held in accordance with rules of parliamentary procedure.
(b)
The authorized number of directors of the corporation shall be fixed in accordance with the Certificate of Incorporation. Directors need not be stockholders unless so required by the Certificate of Incorporation. If for any cause, the directors shall not have been elected at an annual meeting, they may be elected as soon thereafter as convenient at a special meeting of the stockholders called for that purpose in the manner provided in these Bylaws.
Section 15. Number And Term Of Office
.
The powers of the corporation shall be exercised, its business conducted and its property controlled by the Board of Directors, except as may be otherwise provided by statute or by the Certificate of Incorporation.
Section 16. Powers
.
Section 17. Classes of Directors.
Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect additional directors under specified circumstances, the directors shall be divided into three classes designated as Class I, Class II and Class III, respectively. Directors shall be assigned to each class in accordance with a resolution or resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors. At the first annual meeting of stockholders following the closing of the Initial Public Offering, the term of office of the Class I directors shall expire and Class I directors shall be elected for a full term of three years. At the second annual meeting of stockholders following the Initial Public Offering, the term of office of the Class II directors shall expire and Class II directors shall be elected for a full term of three years. At the third annual meeting of stockholders following the Initial Public Offering, the term of office of the Class III directors shall expire and Class III directors shall be elected for a full term of three years. At each succeeding annual meeting of stockholders, directors shall be elected for a full term of three years to succeed the directors of the class whose terms expire at such annual meeting.
(a)
 
No person entitled to vote at an election for directors may cumulate votes to which such person is entitled.
(b)
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, each director shall serve until his successor is duly elected and qualified or until his death, resignation or removal. No decrease in the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors shall shorten the term of any incumbent director.
Section 18. Vacancies.
Unless otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation, any vacancies on the Board of Directors resulting from death, resignation, disqualification, removal or other causes and any newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the number of directors shall, unless the Board of Directors determines by resolution that any such vacancies or newly created directorships shall be filled by stockholders, be filled only by the affirmative vote of a majority of the directors then in office, even though less than a quorum of the Board of Directors. Any director elected in accordance with the preceding sentence shall hold office for the remainder of the full term of the director for which the vacancy was created or occurred and until such director's successor shall have been elected and qualified. A vacancy in the Board of Directors shall be deemed to exist under this Section 18 in the case of the death, removal or resignation of any director.
(a)
If at the time of filling any vacancy or any newly created directorship, the directors then in office shall constitute less than a majority of the whole board (as constituted immediately prior to any such increase), the Delaware Court of Chancery may, upon application of any stockholder or stockholders holding at least ten percent (10%) of the total number of the shares at the time outstanding having the right to vote for such directors, summarily order an election to be held to fill any such vacancies or newly created directorships, or to replace the directors chosen by the directors then in offices as aforesaid, which election shall be governed by Section 211 of the DGCL.
(b)
Any director may resign at any time by delivering his resignation in writing or by electronic transmission to the Secretary, such resignation to specify whether it will be effective at a particular time, upon receipt by the Secretary or at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. If no such specification is made, it shall be deemed effective at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. When one or more directors shall resign from the Board of Directors, effective at a future date, a majority of the directors then in office, including those who have so resigned, shall have power to fill such vacancy or vacancies, the vote thereon to take effect when such resignation or resignations shall become effective, and each Director so chosen shall hold office for the unexpired portion of the term of the Director whose place shall be vacated and until his successor shall have been duly elected and qualified.
Section 19. Resignation
.
 
Section 20. Removal.
Any director may be removed from office by the stockholders of the Corporation only for cause. No reduction of the authorized number of directors shall have the effect of removing any director prior to the expiration of such director's term of office.
(a)
Section 21. Meetings.
The annual meeting of the Board of Directors shall be held immediately before or after the annual meeting of stockholders and at the place where such meeting is held. No notice of an annual meeting of the Board of Directors shall be necessary and such meeting shall be held for the purpose of electing officers and transacting such other business as may lawfully come before it.
(a) Annual Meetings.
Unless otherwise restricted by the Certificate of Incorporation, regular meetings of the Board of Directors may be held at any time or date and at any place within or without the State of Delaware which has been designated by the Board of Directors and publicized among all directors. No formal notice shall be required for regular meetings of the Board of Directors.
(b) Regular Meetings.
Unless otherwise restricted by the Certificate of Incorporation, special meetings of the Board of Directors may be held at any time and place within or without the State of Delaware whenever called by the Chairman of the Board, the President or any two of the directors.
(c) Special Meetings.
Any member of the Board of Directors, or of any committee thereof, may participate in a meeting by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation in a meeting by such means shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
(d) Telephone Meetings.
Notice of the time and place of all special meetings of the Board of Directors shall be orally or in writing, by telephone, including a voice messaging system or other system or technology designed to record and communicate messages, facsimile, telegraph or telex, or by electronic mail or other electronic means, during normal business hours, at least twenty-four (24) hours before the date and time of the meeting, or sent in writing to each director by first class mail, charges prepaid, at least three (3) days before the date of the meeting. Notice of any meeting may be waived in writing or by electronic transmission at any time before or after the meeting and will be waived by any director by attendance thereat, except when the director attends the meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened.
(e) Notice of Meetings.
The transaction of all business at any meeting of the Board of Directors, or any committee thereof, however called or noticed, or wherever held, shall be as valid as though had at a meeting duly held after regular call and notice, if a quorum be present and if, either before or after the meeting, each of the directors not present shall sign a written waiver of notice. All such waivers shall be filed with the corporate records or made a part of the minutes of the meeting.
(f) Waiver of Notice.
 
Section 22. Quorum And Voting.
Unless the Certificate of Incorporation requires a greater number and except with respect to indemnification questions arising under Section 43 hereof, for which a quorum shall be one-third of the exact number of directors fixed from time to time in accordance with the Certificate of Incorporation, a quorum of the Board of Directors shall consist of a majority of the exact number of directors fixed from time to time by the Board of Directors in accordance with the Certificate of Incorporation; , , at any meeting whether a quorum be present or otherwise, a majority of the directors present may adjourn from time to time until the time fixed for the next regular meeting of the Board of Directors, without notice other than by announcement at the meeting.
(a)
provided
however
At each meeting of the Board of Directors at which a quorum is present, all questions and business shall be determined by the affirmative vote of a majority of the directors present, unless a different vote be required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws.
(b)
Unless otherwise restricted by the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting, if all members of the Board of Directors or committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing, and such writing or writings are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board of Directors or committee.
Section 23. Action Without Meeting.
Directors shall be entitled to such compensation for their services as may be approved by the Board of Directors, including, if so approved, by resolution of the Board of Directors, a fixed sum and expenses of attendance, if any, for attendance at each regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors and at any meeting of a committee of the Board of Directors. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to preclude any director from serving the corporation in any other capacity as an officer, agent, employee, or otherwise and receiving compensation therefor.
Section 24. Fees And Compensation.
Section 25. Committees.
The Board of Directors may appoint an Executive Committee to consist of one (1) or more members of the Board of Directors. The Executive Committee, to the extent permitted by law and provided in the resolution of the Board of Directors shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the corporation, and may authorize the seal of the corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it; but no such committee shall have the power or authority in reference to (i) approving or adopting, or recommending to the stockholders, any action or matter expressly required by the DGCL to be submitted to stockholders for approval, or (ii) adopting, amending or repealing any bylaw of the corporation.
(a) Executive Committee.
The Board of Directors may, from time to time, appoint such other committees as may be permitted by law. Such other committees appointed by the Board of Directors shall consist of one (l) or more members of the Board of Directors and shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be prescribed by the resolution or resolutions creating such committees, but in no event shall any such committee have the powers denied to the Executive Committee in these Bylaws.
(b) Other Committees.
 
Each member of a committee of the Board of Directors shall serve a term on the committee coexistent with such member's term on the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors, subject to any requirements of any outstanding series of preferred Stock and the provisions of subsections (a) or (b) of this Bylaw, may at any time increase or decrease the number of members of a committee or terminate the existence of a committee. The membership of a committee member shall terminate on the date of his death or voluntary resignation from the committee or from the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors may at any time for any reason remove any individual committee member and the Board of Directors may fill any committee vacancy created by death, resignation, removal or increase in the number of members of the committee. The Board of Directors may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee, and, in addition, in the absence or disqualification of any member of a committee, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not he or they constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board of Directors to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member.
(c) Term.
Unless the Board of Directors shall otherwise provide, regular meetings of the Executive Committee or any other committee appointed pursuant to this Section 25 shall be held at such times and places as are determined by the Board of Directors, or by any such committee, and when notice thereof has been given to each member of such committee, no further notice of such regular meetings need be given thereafter. Special meetings of any such committee may be held at any place which has been determined from time to time by such committee, and may be called by any director who is a member of such committee, upon written notice to the members of such committee of the time and place of such special meeting given in the manner provided for the giving of written notice to members of the Board of Directors of the time and place of special meetings of the Board of Directors. Notice of any special meeting of any committee may be waived in writing or by electronic transmission at any time before or after the meeting and will be waived by any director by attendance thereat, except when the director attends such special meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened. A majority of the authorized number of members of any such committee shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, and the act of a majority of those present at any meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of such committee.
(d) Meetings.
At every meeting of the directors, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, or, if a Chairman has not been appointed or is absent, the President (if a director), or if the President is absent, the most senior Vice President (if a director), or, in the absence of any such person, a chairman of the meeting chosen by a majority of the directors present, shall preside over the meeting. The Secretary, or in his absence, any Assistant Secretary directed to do so by the President, shall act as secretary of the meeting.
Section 26. Organization
.
 
The officers of the corporation shall include, if and when designated by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, one or more Vice Presidents, the Secretary, the Chief Financial Officer, the Treasurer and the Controller, all of whom shall be elected at the annual organizational meeting of the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors may also appoint one or more Assistant Secretaries, Assistant Treasurers, Assistant Controllers and such other officers and agents with such powers and duties as it shall deem necessary. The Board of Directors may assign such additional titles to one or more of the officers as it shall deem appropriate. Any one person may hold any number of offices of the corporation at any one time unless specifically prohibited therefrom by law. The salaries and other compensation of the officers of the corporation shall be fixed by or in the manner designated by the Board of Directors.
Section 27. Officers Designated
.
Section 28. Tenure And Duties Of Officers.
All officers shall hold office at the pleasure of the Board of Directors and until their successors shall have been duly elected and qualified, unless sooner removed. Any officer elected or appointed by the Board of Directors may be removed at any time by the Board of Directors. If the office of any officer becomes vacant for any reason, the vacancy may be filled by the Board of Directors.
(a) General.
The Chairman of the Board of Directors, when present, shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders and the Board of Directors. The Chairman of the Board of Directors shall perform other duties commonly incident to his office and shall also perform such other duties and have such other powers, as the Board of Directors shall designate from time to time. If there is no President, then the Chairman of the Board of Directors shall also serve as the Chief Executive Officer of the corporation and shall have the powers and duties prescribed in paragraph (c) of this Section 28.
(b) Duties of Chairman of the Board of Directors.
The President shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders and at all meetings of the Board of Directors, unless the Chairman of the Board of Directors has been appointed and is present. Unless some other officer has been elected Chief Executive Officer of the corporation, the President shall be the chief executive officer of the corporation and shall, subject to the control of the Board of Directors, have general supervision, direction and control of the business and officers of the corporation. The President shall perform other duties commonly incident to his office and shall also perform such other duties and have such other powers, as the Board of Directors shall designate from time to time.
(c) Duties of President.
The Vice Presidents may assume and perform the duties of the President in the absence or disability of the President or whenever the office of President is vacant. The Vice Presidents shall perform other duties commonly incident to their office and shall also perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors or the President shall designate from time to time.
(d) Duties of Vice Presidents.
 
The Secretary shall attend all meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors and shall record all acts and proceedings thereof in the minute book of the corporation. The Secretary shall give notice in conformity with these Bylaws of all meetings of the stockholders and of all meetings of the Board of Directors and any committee thereof requiring notice. The Secretary shall perform all other duties given him in these Bylaws and other duties commonly incident to his office and shall also perform such other duties and have such other powers, as the Board of Directors shall designate from time to time. The President may direct any Assistant Secretary to assume and perform the duties of the Secretary in the absence or disability of the Secretary, and each Assistant Secretary shall perform other duties commonly incident to his office and shall also perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors or the President shall designate from time to time.
(e) Duties of Secretary.
The Chief Financial Officer shall keep or cause to be kept the books of account of the corporation in a thorough and proper manner and shall render statements of the financial affairs of the corporation in such form and as often as required by the Board of Directors or the President. The Chief Financial Officer, subject to the order of the Board of Directors, shall have the custody of all funds and securities of the corporation. The Chief Financial Officer shall perform other duties commonly incident to his office and shall also perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors or the President shall designate from time to time. The President may direct the Treasurer or any Assistant Treasurer, or the Controller or any Assistant Controller to assume and perform the duties of the Chief Financial Officer in the absence or disability of the Chief Financial Officer, and each Treasurer and Assistant Treasurer and each Controller and Assistant Controller shall perform other duties commonly incident to his office and shall also perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors or the President shall designate from time to time.
(f) Duties of Chief Financial Officer.
The Board of Directors may from time to time delegate the powers or duties of any officer to any other officer or agent, notwithstanding any provision hereof.
Section 29. Delegation Of Authority.
Any officer may resign at any time by giving notice in writing or by electronic transmission to the Board of Directors or to the President or to the Secretary. Any such resignation shall be effective when received by the person or persons to whom such notice is given, unless a later time is specified therein, in which event the resignation shall become effective at such later time. Unless otherwise specified in such notice, the acceptance of any such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective, Any resignation shall be without prejudice to the rights, if any, of the corporation under any contract with the resigning officer.
Section 30. Resignations.
 
Any officer may be removed from office at any time, either with or without cause, by the affirmative vote of a majority of the directors in office at the time, or by the unanimous written consent of the directors in office at the time, or by any committee or superior officers upon whom such power of removal may have been conferred by the Board of Directors.
Section 31. Removal.
The Board of Directors may, in its discretion, determine the method and designate the signatory officer or officers, or other person or persons, to execute on behalf of the corporation any corporate instrument or document, or to sign on behalf of the corporation the corporate name without limitation, or to enter into contracts on behalf of the corporation, except where otherwise provided by law or these Bylaws, and such execution or signature shall be binding upon the corporation.
Section 32. Execution Of Corporate Instruments.
All checks and drafts drawn on banks or other depositaries on funds to the credit of the corporation or in special accounts of the corporation shall be signed by such person or persons as the Board of Directors shall authorize so to do.
Unless authorized or ratified by the Board of Directors or within the agency power of an officer, no officer, agent or employee shall have any power or authority to bind the corporation by any contract or engagement or to pledge its credit or to render it liable for any purpose or for any amount.
All stock and other securities of other corporations owned or held by the corporation for itself, or for other parties in any capacity, shall be voted, and all proxies with respect thereto shall be executed, by the person authorized so to do by resolution of the Board of Directors, or, in the absence of such authorization, by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, or any Vice President.
Section 33. Voting Of Securities Owned By The Corporation.
The shares of the corporation shall be represented by certificates, provided that the board of directors may provide by resolution or resolutions that some or all of any or all classes or series of the corporation's stock shall be represented by uncertificated shares. Any such resolution shall not apply to shares represented by a certificate until such certificate is surrendered to the corporation. Certificates for the shares of stock of the corporation shall be in such form as is consistent with the Certificate of Incorporation and applicable law. Every holder of stock in the corporation represented by certificates shall be entitled to have a certificate signed by or in the name of the corporation by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, or the President or any Vice President
Section 34.Form And Execution Of Certificates.
 
and by the Treasurer or Assistant Treasurer or the Secretary or Assistant Secretary, certifying the number of shares registered in certificate form owned by him in the corporation. Any or all of the signatures on the certificate may be facsimiles. In case any officer, transfer agent, or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent, or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued with the same effect as if he were such officer, transfer agent, or registrar at the date of issue. Each certificate shall state upon the face or back thereof, in full or in summary, all of the powers, designations, preferences, and rights, and the limitations or restrictions of the shares authorized to be issued or shall, except as otherwise required by law, set forth on the face or back a statement that the corporation will furnish without charge to each stockholder who so requests the powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional, or other special rights of each class of stock or series thereof and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights. Within a reasonable time after the issuance or transfer of uncertificated stock, the corporation shall send to the registered owner thereof a written notice containing the information required to be set forth or stated on certificates pursuant to this section or otherwise required by law or with respect to this section a statement that the corporation will furnish without charge to each stockholder who so requests the powers, designations, preferences and relative participating, optional or other special rights of each class of stock or series thereof and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights. Except as otherwise expressly provided by law, the rights and obligations of the holders of certificates representing stock of the same class and series shall be identical.
A new certificate or certificates or uncertificated shares shall be issued in place of any certificate or certificates theretofore issued by the corporation alleged to have been lost, stolen, or destroyed, upon the making of an affidavit of that fact by the person claiming the certificate of stock to be lost, stolen, or destroyed. The corporation may require, as a condition precedent to the issuance of a new certificate or uncertificated shares, the owner of such lost, stolen, or destroyed certificate or certificates, or his legal representative, to agree to indemnify the corporation in such manner as it shall require or to give the corporation a surety bond in such form and amount as it may direct as indemnity against any claim that may be made against the corporation with respect to the certificate alleged to have been lost, stolen, or destroyed.
Section 35. Lost Certificates.
Section 36. Transfers.
Stock of the corporation shall be transferable in the manner prescribed by law and in these bylaws. Shares of stock of the corporation shall only be transferred on the books of the corporation by the holder of record thereof or by such holder's attorney duly authorized in writing, and upon the surrender to the corporation of a properly endorsed certificate or certificates representing such shares (or by delivery of duly executed instructions with respect to uncertificated shares), with such evidence of the authenticity of such endorsement or execution, transfer, authorization, and other matters as the corporation may reasonably require, and accompanied by all necessary stock transfer stamps. No transfer of stock shall be valid against the corporation for any purpose until it shall have been entered in the stock records of the corporation by an entry showing the names of the persons from and to whom it was transferred.
(a)
The corporation shall have power to enter into and perform any agreement with any number of stockholders of any one or more classes of stock of the corporation to restrict the transfer of shares of stock of the corporation of any one or more classes owned by such stockholders in any manner not prohibited by the DGCL.
(b)
 
Section 37. Fixing Record Dates.
In order that the corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, the Board of Directors may fix, in advance, a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors, and which record date shall, subject to applicable law, not be more than sixty (60) nor less than ten (10) days before the date of such meeting. If no record date is fixed by the Board of Directors, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice is given, or if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held. A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; , that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
(a)
provided, however
In order that the corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights or the stockholders entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock, or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix, in advance, a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted, and which record date shall be not more than sixty (60) days prior to such action. If no record date is fixed, the record date for determining stockholders for any such purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution relating thereto.
(b)
The corporation shall be entitled to recognize the exclusive right of a person registered on its books as the owner of shares to receive dividends, and to vote as such owner, and shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in such share or shares on the part of any other person whether or not it shall, have express or other notice thereof, except as otherwise provided by the laws of Delaware.
Section 38. Registered Stockholders.
All bonds, debentures and other corporate securities of the corporation, other than stock certificates (covered in Section 34), may be signed by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the President or any Vice President, or such other person as may be authorized by the Board of Directors, and the corporate seal impressed thereon or a facsimile of such seal imprinted thereon and attested by the signature of the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, or the Chief Financial Officer or Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer; provided, however, that where any such bond, debenture or other corporate
Section 39. Execution Of Other Securities.
 
security shall be authenticated by the manual signature, or where permissible facsimile signature, of a trustee under an indenture pursuant to which such bond, debenture or other corporate security shall be issued, the signatures of the persons signing and attesting the corporate seal on such bond, debenture or other corporate security may be the imprinted facsimile of the signatures of such persons. Interest coupons appertaining to any such bond, debenture or other corporate security, authenticated by a trustee as aforesaid, shall be signed by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer of the corporation or such other person as may be authorized by the Board of Directors, or bear imprinted thereon the facsimile signature of such person. In case any officer who shall have signed or attested any bond, debenture or other corporate security, or whose facsimile signature shall appear thereon or on any such interest coupon, shall have ceased to be such officer before the bond, debenture or other corporate security so signed or attested shall have been delivered, such bond, debenture or other corporate security nevertheless may be adopted by the corporation and issued and delivered as though the person who signed the same or whose facsimile signature shall have been used thereon had not ceased to be such officer of the corporation.
Dividends upon the capital stock of the corporation, subject to the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation and applicable law, if any, may be declared by the Board of Directors pursuant to law at any regular or special meeting. Dividends may be paid in cash, in property, or in shares of the capital stock, subject to the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation and applicable law.
Section 40. Declaration Of Dividends.
Before payment of any dividend, there may be set aside out of any funds of the corporation available for dividends such sum or sums as the Board of Directors from time to time, in their absolute discretion, think proper as a reserve or reserves to meet contingencies, or for equalizing dividends, or for repairing or maintaining any property of the corporation, or for such other purpose as the Board of Directors shall think conducive to the interests of the corporation, and the Board of Directors may modify or abolish any such reserve in the manner in which it was created.
Section 41. Dividend Reserve.
The fiscal year of the corporation shall be fixed by resolution of the Board of Directors.
Section 42. Fiscal Year.
 
The corporation shall indemnify its directors and executive officers (for the purposes of this Article XI, "executive officers" shall have the meaning defined in Rule 3b-7 promulgated under the 1934 Act) to the fullest extent not prohibited by the DGCL or any other applicable law; , , that the corporation may modify the extent of such indemnification by individual contracts with its directors and executive officers; and, , , that the corporation shall not be required to indemnify any director or executive officer in connection with any proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person unless (i) such indemnification is expressly required to be made by law, (ii) the proceeding was authorized by the Board of Directors of the corporation, (iii) such indemnification is provided by the corporation, in its sole discretion, pursuant to the powers
Section 43. Indemnification Of Directors, Executive Officers, Other Officers, Employees And Other AgentsDirectors And Executive Officers
.
provided
however
provided
further
vested in the corporation under the DGCL or any other applicable law or (iv) such indemnification is required to be made under subsection (d).
The corporation shall have power to indemnify its other officers, employees and other agents as set forth in the DGCL or any other applicable law. The Board of Directors shall have the power to delegate the determination of whether indemnification shall be given to any such person to such officers or other persons as the Board of Directors shall determine.
(b) Other Officers, Employees and Other Agents
.
The corporation shall advance to any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, by reason of the fact that he is or was a director or executive officer of the corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the corporation as a director or executive officer of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, prior to the final disposition of the proceeding, promptly following request therefor, all expenses incurred by any director or executive officer in connection with such proceeding upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of such person to repay said amounts if it should be determined ultimately that such person is not entitled to be indemnified under this Section 43 or otherwise.
(c) Expenses
.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, unless otherwise determined pursuant to paragraph (e) of this Section 43, no advance shall be made by the corporation to an executive officer of the corporation (except by reason of the fact that such executive officer is or was a director of the corporation in which event this paragraph shall not apply) in any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, if a determination is reasonably and promptly made (i) by the Board of Directors by a majority vote of a quorum consisting of directors who were not parties to the proceeding, or (ii) if such quorum is not obtainable, or, even if obtainable, a quorum of disinterested directors so directs, by independent legal counsel in a written opinion, that the facts known to the decision-making party at the time such determination is made demonstrate clearly and convincingly that such person acted in bad faith or in a manner that such person did not believe to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the corporation.
Without the necessity of entering into an express contract, all rights to indemnification and advances to directors and executive officers under this Bylaw shall be deemed to be contractual rights and be effective to the same extent and as if provided for in a contract between the corporation and the director or executive officer. Any right to indemnification or advances granted by this Section 43 to a director or executive officer shall be enforceable by or on behalf of the person holding such right in any court of competent
(d) Enforcement
.
 
jurisdiction if (i) the claim for indemnification or advances is denied, in whole or in part, or (ii) no disposition of such claim is made within ninety (90) days of request therefor. The claimant in such enforcement action, if successful in whole or in part, shall be entitled to be paid also the expense of prosecuting his claim. In connection with any claim for indemnification, the corporation shall be entitled to raise as a defense to any such action that the claimant has not met the standards of conduct that make it permissible under the DGCL or any other applicable law for the corporation to indemnify the claimant for the amount claimed. In connection with any claim by an executive officer of the corporation (except in any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, by reason of the fact that such executive officer is or was a director of the corporation) for advances, the corporation shall be entitled to raise a defense as to any such action clear and convincing evidence that such person acted in bad faith or in a manner that such person did not believe to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the corporation, or with respect to any criminal action or proceeding that such person acted without reasonable cause to believe that his conduct was lawful. Neither the failure of the corporation (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel or its stockholders) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such action that indemnification of the claimant is proper in the circumstances because he has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in the DGCL or any other applicable law, nor an actual determination by the corporation (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel or its stockholders) that the claimant has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall be a defense to the action or create a presumption that claimant has not met the applicable standard of conduct.
The rights conferred on any person by this Bylaw shall not be exclusive of any other right which such person may have or hereafter acquire under any applicable statute, provision of the Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise, both as to action in his official capacity and as to action in another capacity while holding office. The corporation is specifically authorized to enter into individual contracts with any or all of its directors, officers, employees or agents respecting indemnification and advances, to the fullest extent not prohibited by the Delaware General Corporation Law, or by any other applicable law.
(e) Non-Exclusivity of Rights
.
The rights conferred on any person by this Bylaw shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director, officer, employee or other agent and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors and administrators of such a person.
(f) Survival of Rights
.
To the fullest extent permitted by the DGCL or any other applicable law, the corporation, upon approval by the Board of Directors, may purchase insurance on behalf of any person required or permitted to be indemnified pursuant to this Section 43.
(g) Insurance
.
Any repeal or modification of this Section 43 shall only be prospective and shall not affect the rights under this Bylaw in effect at the time of the alleged occurrence of any action or omission to act that is the cause of any proceeding against any agent of the corporation.
(h) Amendments
.
 
If this Bylaw or any portion hereof shall be invalidated on any ground by any court of competent jurisdiction, then the corporation shall nevertheless indemnify each director and executive officer to the full extent not prohibited by any applicable portion of this Section 43 that shall not have been invalidated, or by any other applicable law. If this Section 43 shall be invalid due to the application of the indemnification provisions of another jurisdiction, then the corporation shall indemnify each director and executive officer to the full extent under any other applicable law.
(i) Saving Clause
.
For the purposes of this Bylaw, the following definitions shall apply:
(j) Certain Definitions
.
The term "proceeding" shall be broadly construed and shall include, without limitation, the investigation, preparation, prosecution, defense, settlement, arbitration and appeal of, and the giving of testimony in, any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative.
(1)
The term "expenses" shall be broadly construed and shall include, without limitation, court costs, attorneys' fees, witness fees, fines, amounts paid in settlement or judgment and any other costs and expenses of any nature or kind incurred in connection with any proceeding.
(2)
The term the "corporation" shall include, in addition to the resulting corporation, any constituent corporation (including any constituent of a constituent) absorbed in a consolidation or merger which, if its separate existence had continued, would have had power and authority to indemnify its directors, officers, and employees or agents, so that any person who is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of such constituent corporation, or is or was serving at the request of such constituent corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, shall stand in the same position under the provisions of this Section 43 with respect to the resulting or surviving corporation as he would have with respect to such constituent corporation if its separate existence had continued.
(3)
References to a "director," "executive officer," "officer," "employee," or "agent" of the corporation shall include, without limitation, situations where such person is serving at the request of the corporation as, respectively, a director, executive officer, officer, employee, trustee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise.
(4)
References to "other enterprises" shall include employee benefit plans; references to "fines" shall include any excise taxes assessed on a person with respect to an employee benefit plan; and references to "serving at the request of the corporation" shall include any service as a director, officer, employee or agent of the corporation which imposes duties on, or involves services by, such director, officer, employee, or agent with respect to an employee benefit plan, its participants, or beneficiaries; and a person who acted in good faith and in a manner he reasonably believed to be in the interest of the participants and beneficiaries of an employee benefit plan shall be deemed to have acted in a manner "not opposed to the best interests of the corporation" as referred to in this Section 43.
(5)
 
Whenever, under any provisions of these Bylaws, notice is required to be given to any stockholder, it shall be given: (i) if mailed, when deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, directed to the stockholder at his or her address as it appears on the corporation's records; or (ii) if electronically transmitted as provided in Section 45 of these bylaws. An affidavit of the secretary or an assistant secretary of the corporation or of the transfer agent or any other agent of the corporation that the notice has been given by mail or by a form of electronic transmission, as applicable, shall, in the absence of fraud, be prima facie evidence of the facts stated therein.
Section 44. Notices
(a) Notice To Stockholders.
Any notice required to be given to any director may be: (i) delivered personally by hand, by courier or by telephone; (ii) sent by United States first-class mail, postage prepaid; (iii) sent by facsimile; or (iv) sent by electronic mail, directed to each director at that director's address, telephone number, facsimile number or electronic mail address, as the case may be, as shown on the corporation's records.
(b) Notice To Directors
.
An affidavit of mailing, executed by a duly authorized and competent employee of the corporation or its transfer agent appointed with respect to the class of stock affected, specifying the name and address or the names and addresses of the stockholder or stockholders, or director or directors, to whom any such notice or notices was or were given, and the time and method of giving the same, shall in the absence of fraud, be prima facie evidence of the facts therein contained.
(c) Affidavit Of Mailing
.
All notices given by mail or by overnight delivery service, as above provided, shall be deemed to have been given as at the time of mailing, and all notices given by electronic transmission, facsimile, telex or telegram shall be deemed to have been given as of the sending time recorded at time of transmission.
(d) Time Notices Deemed Given
.
It shall not be necessary that the same method of giving notice be employed in respect of all directors, but one permissible method may be employed in respect of any one or more, and any other permissible method or methods may be employed in respect of any other or others.
(e) Methods of Notice
.
The period or limitation of time within which any stockholder may exercise any option or right, or enjoy any privilege or benefit, or be required to act, or within which any director may exercise any power or right, or enjoy any privilege, pursuant to any notice sent him in the manner above provided, shall not be affected or extended in any manner by the failure of such stockholder or such director to receive such notice.
(f) Failure To Receive Notice
.
Whenever notice is required to be given, under any provision of law or of the Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws of the corporation, to any person with whom communication is unlawful, the giving of such notice to such person shall not be required and there shall be no duty to apply to any governmental authority or agency for a license or permit to give such notice to
(g) Notice To Person With Whom Communication Is Unlawful
.
 
such person. Any action or meeting which shall be taken or held without notice to any such person with whom communication is unlawful shall have the same force and effect as if such notice had been duly given. In the event that the action taken by the corporation is such as to require the filing of a certificate under any provision of the DGCL, the certificate shall state, if such is the fact and if notice is required, that notice was given to all persons entitled to receive notice except such persons with whom communication is unlawful.
Whenever notice is required to be given, under any provision of law or the Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws of the corporation, to any stockholder to whom (i) notice of two consecutive annual meetings, and all notices of meetings or of the taking of action by written consent without a meeting to such person during the period between such two consecutive annual meetings, or (ii) all, and at least two, payments (if sent by first class mail) of dividends or interest on securities during a twelve-month period, have been mailed addressed to such person at his address as shown on the records of the corporation and have been returned undeliverable, the giving of such notice to such person shall not be required. Any action or meeting which shall be taken or held without notice to such person shall have the same force and effect as if such notice had been duly given. If any such person shall deliver to the corporation a written notice setting forth his then current address, the requirement that notice be given to such person shall be reinstated. In the event that the action taken by the corporation is such as to require the filing of a certificate under any provision of the DGCL, the certificate need not state that notice was not given to persons to whom notice was not required to be given pursuant to this paragraph.
(h) Notice To Person With Undeliverable Address
.
Unless otherwise stated herein, whenever notice is required to be given under any provision of the DGCL, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, a written waiver of notice, signed by the person entitled to notice, or a waiver by electronic transmission by the person entitled to notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to notice. Attendance of a person at a meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting, except when the person attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting at the beginning of the meeting to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully convened or called. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any annual, regular or special meeting of the stockholders, directors or members of a committee of directors need be specified in any written waiver of notice or any waiver by electronic transmission unless so required by the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws.
(i) Waiver of Notice
.
Section 45. Notice By Electronic Transmission
Without limiting the manner by which notice otherwise may be given effectively to stockholders pursuant to the DGCL, the certificate of incorporation or these bylaws, any notice to stockholders given by the corporation under any provision of the DGCL, the certificate of incorporation or these bylaws shall be effective if given by a form of electronic transmission consented to by the stockholder to whom the notice is given. Any such consent shall be revocable by the stockholder by written notice to the corporation. Any such consent shall be deemed revoked if:
(a)
the corporation is unable to deliver by electronic transmission two consecutive notices given by the corporation in accordance with such consent; and
(1)
 
such inability becomes known to the secretary or an assistant secretary of the corporation or to the transfer agent, or other person responsible for the giving of notice.
(2)
However, the inadvertent failure to treat such inability as a revocation shall not invalidate any meeting or other action.
Any notice given pursuant to this Section 45 (a) shall be deemed given:
(b)
if by facsimile telecommunication, when directed to a number at which the stockholder has consented to receive notice;
(1)
if by electronic mail, when directed to an electronic mail address at which the stockholder has consented to receive notice;
(2)
if by a posting on an electronic network together with separate notice to the stockholder of such specific posting, upon the later of (A) such posting and (B) the giving of such separate notice; and
(3)
if by any other form of electronic transmission, when directed to the stockholder.
(4)
An affidavit of the secretary or an assistant secretary or of the transfer agent or other agent of the corporation that the notice has been given by a form of electronic transmission shall, in the absence of fraud, be prima facie evidence of the facts stated therein.
An "electronic transmission" means any form of communication, not directly involving the physical transmission of paper, that creates a record that may be retained, retrieved, and reviewed by a recipient thereof, and that may be directly reproduced in paper form by such a recipient through an automated process.
(c)
Notice by a form of electronic transmission shall not apply to Sections 164, 296, 311, 312 or 324 of the DGCL.
(d)
Subject to paragraph (h) of Section 43 of the Bylaws, the Bylaws may be altered or amended or new Bylaws adopted by the affirmative vote of at least sixty-six and two-thirds percent (66-2/3%) of the voting power of all of the then-outstanding shares of the voting stock of the corporation entitled to vote. The Board of Directors shall also have the power to adopt, amend, or repeal Bylaws.
Section 46. Amendments.
 
The corporation may lend money to, or guarantee any obligation of, or otherwise assist any officer or other employee of the corporation or of its subsidiaries, including any officer or employee who is a Director of the corporation or its subsidiaries, whenever, in the judgment of the Board of Directors, such loan, guarantee or assistance may reasonably be expected to benefit the corporation. The loan, guarantee or other assistance may be with or without interest and may be unsecured, or secured in such manner as the Board of Directors shall approve, including, without limitation, a pledge of shares of stock of the corporation. Nothing in these Bylaws shall be deemed to deny, limit or restrict the powers of guaranty or warranty of the corporation at common law or under any statute.
Section 47. Loans To Officers.
 

Exhibit 10.1
GOLDMAN, SACHS & CO. | 85 BROAD STREET | NEW YORK, NEW YORK 10004 | TEL: 212-902-1000
Opening Transaction
 
This master confirmation (this ""), dated as of March 4, 2009 is intended to set forth certain terms and provisions of certain Transactions (each, a "") entered into from time to time between Goldman, Sachs & Co. ("") and Intuitive Surgical, Inc. (""). This Master Confirmation, taken alone, is neither a commitment by either party to enter into any Transaction nor evidence of a Transaction. The additional terms of any particular Transaction shall be set forth in (i) a Supplemental Confirmation in the form of Schedule A hereto (a ""), which shall reference this Master Confirmation and supplement, form a part of, and be subject to this Master Confirmation and (ii) a Trade Notification in the form of Schedule B hereto (a ""), which shall reference the relevant Supplemental Confirmation and supplement, form a part of, and be subject to such Supplemental Confirmation. This Master Confirmation, each Supplemental Confirmation and the related Trade Notification together shall constitute a "Confirmation" as referred to in the Agreement specified below.
Master Confirmation
Transaction
GS&Co.
Counterparty
Supplemental Confirmation
Trade Notification
The definitions and provisions contained in the 2002 ISDA Equity Derivatives Definitions (the ""), as published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc., are incorporated into this Master Confirmation. This Master Confirmation, each Supplemental Confirmation and the related Trade Notification evidence a complete binding agreement between Counterparty and GS&Co. as to the subject matter and terms of each Transaction to which this Master Confirmation, such Supplemental Confirmation and Trade Notification relate and shall supersede all prior or contemporaneous written or oral communications with respect thereto.
Equity Definitions
This Master Confirmation, each Supplemental Confirmation and each Trade Notification supplement, form a part of, and are subject to an agreement in the form of the 1992 ISDA Master Agreement (Multicurrency-Cross Border) (the "") as if GS&Co. and Counterparty had executed the Agreement on the date of this Master Confirmation (but without any Schedule except for (i) the election of Loss and Second Method, New York law (without reference to its choice of laws doctrine other than Title 14 of Article 5 of the New York General Obligations Law) as the governing law and US Dollars ("") as the Termination Currency, (ii) the election that subparagraph (ii) of Section 2(c) will not apply to the Transactions, (iii) the replacement of the word "third" in the last line of Section 5(a)(i) with the word "first," (iv) the election that the "Cross Default" provisions of Section 5(a)(vi), as amended by (x) deleting the words ", or becoming capable at such time of being declared," from Section 5(a)(vi)(1) and (y) inserting at the end of Section 5(a)(vi) "; , however, that notwithstanding the foregoing, an Event of Default shall not be deemed to have occurred at any time under clause (2) hereof if the default is a failure to pay caused, as demonstrated to the reasonable satisfaction of the other party, solely by an error or omission of an administrative or operational nature where (i) funds required to make payment were available to the relevant party to enable it to make the relevant payment when due and (ii) such payment is in fact made within 2 Local Business Days after the relevant party receives written notice from an interested party of such default", shall apply
Agreement
USD
provided
to GS&Co. and Counterparty, with a "Threshold Amount" of USD 50 million in each case, (v) the designation of the General Guarantee Agreement dated January 30, 2006 made by The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. ("") in favor of each person to whom GS&Co. may owe any Obligations (as defined in the General Guarantee Agreement) and filed as Exhibit 10.45 to GS Group's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 25, 2005 and any successor guarantee by GS Group in favor of each person to whom GS&Co. may owe any Obligations (as defined in the General Guarantee Agreement) as a Credit Support Document under the Agreement and (vi) the designation of GS Group as a Credit Support Provider in relation to GS&Co. under the Agreement.
GS Group
The Transactions shall be the sole Transactions under the Agreement. If there exists any ISDA Master Agreement between GS&Co. and Counterparty or any confirmation or other agreement between GS&Co. and Counterparty pursuant to which an ISDA Master Agreement is deemed to exist between GS&Co. and Counterparty, then notwithstanding anything to the contrary in such ISDA Master Agreement, such confirmation or agreement or any other agreement to which GS&Co. and Counterparty are parties, the Transactions shall not be considered Transactions under, or otherwise governed by, such existing or deemed ISDA Master Agreement.
All provisions contained or incorporated by reference in the Agreement shall govern this Master Confirmation, each Supplemental Confirmation and each Trade Notification except as expressly modified herein or in the related Supplemental Confirmation.
If, in relation to any Transaction to which this Master Confirmation, a Supplemental Confirmation and a Trade Notification relate, there is any inconsistency between the Agreement, this Master Confirmation, any Supplemental Confirmation, any Trade Notification and the Equity Definitions, the following will prevail for purposes of such Transaction in the order of precedence indicated: (i) such Trade Notification, (ii) such Supplemental Confirmation; (iii) this Master Confirmation; (iv) the Agreement; and (v) the Equity Definitions.
1. Each Transaction constitutes a Share Forward Transaction for the purposes of the Equity Definitions. Set forth below are the terms and conditions that, together with the terms and conditions set forth in the Supplemental Confirmation and Trade Notification relating to any Transaction, shall govern such Transaction.
General Terms:
 
Valuation:
 
 
 
Settlement Terms:
 
 
Share Adjustments:
 
 
Extraordinary Events:
Consequences of
Merger Events:
 
 
Consequences of
Tender Offers:
 
 
Additional Disruption Events:
 
 
 
 
 
2. . GS&Co.
Calculation Agent
3. . In addition to the representations, warranties and covenants in the Agreement, each party represents, warrants and covenants to the other party that:
Additional Mutual Representations, Warranties and Covenants of Each Party
(a) . It is an "eligible contract participant", as defined in the U.S. Commodity Exchange Act (as amended), and is entering into each Transaction hereunder as principal (and not as agent or in any other capacity, fiduciary or otherwise) and not for the benefit of any third party.
Eligible Contract Participant
(b) . Each party acknowledges that the offer and sale of each Transaction to it is intended to be exempt from registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), by virtue of Section 4(2) thereof. Accordingly, each party represents and warrants to the other that (i) it has the financial ability to bear the economic risk of its investment in each Transaction and is able to bear a total loss of its investment, (ii) it is an "accredited investor" as that term is defined under Regulation D under the Securities Act and (iii) the disposition of each Transaction is restricted under this Master Confirmation, the Securities Act and state securities laws.
Accredited Investor
Securities Act
4. . In addition to the representations, warranties and covenants in the Agreement, Counterparty represents, warrants and covenants to GS&Co. that:
Additional Representations, Warranties and Covenants of Counterparty
(a) The purchase or writing of each Transaction and the transactions contemplated hereby will not violate Rule 13e-1 or Rule 13e-4 under the Exchange Act.
(b) It is not entering into any Transaction (i) on the basis of, and is not aware of, any material non-public information with respect to the Shares (ii) in anticipation of, in connection with, or to facilitate, a distribution of its securities, a self tender offer or a third-party tender offer or (iii) to create actual or apparent trading activity in the Shares (or any security convertible into or exchangeable for the Shares) or to raise or depress or otherwise manipulate the price of the Shares (or any security convertible into or exchangeable for the Shares).
(c) Each Transaction is being entered into pursuant to a publicly disclosed Share buy-back program and its Board of Directors has approved the use of derivatives to effect the Share buy-back program.
(d) Without limiting the generality of Section 13.1 of the Equity Definitions, it acknowledges that neither GS&Co. nor any of its affiliates is making any representations or warranties or taking any position or expressing any view with respect to the treatment of any Transaction under any accounting standards including FASB Statements 128, 133 as amended, or 149, 150, EITF 00-19, 01-6, 03-6 or 07-5 (or any successor issue statements) or under the Financial Accounting Standards Board's Liabilities & Equity Project.
(e) As of (i) the date hereof and (ii) the Trade Date for each Transaction hereunder, Counterparty is in compliance with its reporting obligations under the Exchange Act and its most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, together with all reports subsequently filed by it pursuant to the Exchange Act, taken together and as amended and supplemented to the date of this representation, do not, as of their respective filing dates, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading;
 
(f) Counterparty shall report each Transaction as required under Regulation S-K under the Exchange Act.
(g) The Shares are not, and Counterparty will not cause the Shares to be, subject to a "restricted period" (as defined in Regulation M promulgated under the Exchange Act ("")) at any time during any Regulation M Period (as defined below) for any Transaction unless Counterparty has provided written notice to GS&Co. of such restricted period not later than the Scheduled Trading Day immediately preceding the first day of such "restricted period"; Counterparty acknowledges that any such notice may cause a Disrupted Day to occur pursuant to Section 5 below; accordingly, Counterparty acknowledges that its delivery of such notice must comply with the standards set forth in Section 6 below; " means, for any Transaction, (i) the Relevant Period (as defined below) and (ii) the Settlement Valuation Period, if any, for such Transaction. "" means, for any Transaction, the period commencing on the first day of the Hedge Period for such Transaction and ending on the earlier of (i) the Scheduled Termination Date and (ii) the last Additional Relevant Day (as specified in the related Supplemental Confirmation) for such Transaction, or such earlier day as elected by GS&Co. and communicated to Counterparty on such day (or, if later, the First Acceleration Date without regard to any acceleration thereof pursuant to "Special Provisions for Acquisition Transaction Announcements" below).
Regulation M
Regulation M Period"
Relevant Period
(h) As of the Trade Date, the Prepayment Date, the Initial Share Delivery Date, the Minimum Share Delivery Date and the Settlement Date for each Transaction, Counterparty is not "insolvent" (as such term is defined under Section 101(32) of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code (Title 11 of the United States Code) (the "")) and Counterparty would be able to purchase a number of Shares with a value equal to the Prepayment Amount in compliance with the laws of the jurisdiction of Counterparty's incorporation.
Bankruptcy Code
(i) Counterparty is not and, after giving effect to any Transaction, will not be, required to register as an "investment company" as such term is defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
(j) Counterparty has not and will not enter into agreements similar to the Transactions described herein where any initial hedge period, calculation period, relevant period or settlement valuation period (each however defined) in such other transaction will overlap at any time (including as a result of extensions in such initial hedge period, calculation period, relevant period or settlement valuation period as provided in the relevant agreements) with any Relevant Period or, if applicable, any Settlement Valuation Period under this Master Confirmation. In the event that the initial hedge period, relevant period, calculation period or settlement valuation period in any other similar transaction overlaps with any Relevant Period or, if applicable, Settlement Valuation Period under this Master Confirmation as a result of any postponement of the Scheduled Termination Date or extension of the Settlement Valuation Period pursuant to "Valuation Disruption" above, Counterparty shall promptly amend such transaction to avoid any such overlap.
5. . In addition to the representations, warranties and covenants in the Agreement and those contained herein, GS&Co. covenants to Counterparty that with respect to purchases of Shares by GS&Co. or any of its affiliates in connection with its hedging activities in relation to any Transaction during the Hedge Period for such Transaction, GS&Co. or such affiliate will use good faith efforts to effect such purchases in a manner so that, if such purchases were made by Counterparty, they would meet the requirements of paragraphs (b)(2), (3) and (4) of Rule 10b-18 under the Exchange Act (taking into account any applicable Securities and Exchange Commission or staff no-action letters or interpretations as appropriate and subject to any delays between execution and reporting of a trade of the Shares on the Exchange and other circumstances beyond GS&Co.'s or such affiliate's control).
Additional Covenants of GS&Co
6. . In the event that GS&Co. concludes, in its sole discretion based on the advice of counsel, that it is appropriate with respect to any legal, regulatory or self-regulatory requirements or related policies and procedures (whether or not such requirements, policies or procedures are imposed by law or have been voluntarily adopted by GS&Co.), for it to refrain from purchasing Shares on any Scheduled Trading Day or Days during the Hedge Period, the Calculation Period or, if applicable, the Settlement Valuation Period, GS&Co. may by written notice to Counterparty elect to deem that a Market Disruption Event has occurred and will be continuing on such Scheduled Trading Day or Days.
Regulatory Disruption
 
7. . Counterparty represents, warrants and covenants to GS&Co. that:
10b5-1 Plan
(a) Counterparty is entering into this Master Confirmation and each Transaction hereunder in good faith and not as part of a plan or scheme to evade the prohibitions of Rule 10b5-1 under the Exchange Act ("") or any other antifraud or anti-manipulation provisions of the federal or applicable state securities laws and that it has not entered into or altered and will not enter into or alter any corresponding or hedging transaction or position with respect to the Shares. Counterparty acknowledges that it is the intent of the parties that each Transaction entered into under this Master Confirmation comply with the requirements of paragraphs (c)(1)(i)(A) and (B) of Rule 10b5-1 and each Transaction entered into under this Master Confirmation shall be interpreted to comply with the requirements of Rule 10b5-1(c).
Rule 10b5-1
(b) Counterparty will not seek to control or influence GS&Co.'s decision to make any "purchases or sales" (within the meaning of Rule 10b5-1(c)(1)(i)(B)(3)) under any Transaction entered into under this Master Confirmation, including, without limitation, GS&Co.'s decision to enter into any hedging transactions. Counterparty represents and warrants that it has consulted with its own advisors as to the legal aspects of its adoption and implementation of this Master Confirmation, each Supplemental Confirmation and each Trade Notification under Rule 10b5-1.
(c) Counterparty acknowledges and agrees that any amendment, modification, waiver or termination of this Master Confirmation, the relevant Supplemental Confirmation or Trade Notification must be effected in accordance with the requirements for the amendment or termination of a "plan" as defined in Rule 10b5-1(c). Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, any such amendment, modification, waiver or termination shall be made in good faith and not as part of a plan or scheme to evade the prohibitions of Rule 10b-5, and no such amendment, modification or waiver shall be made at any time at which Counterparty or any officer, director, manager or similar person of Counterparty is aware of any material non-public information regarding Counterparty or the Shares.
8. . Counterparty (or any "affiliated purchaser" as defined in Rule 10b-18 under the Exchange Act ("")) shall not, without the prior written consent of GS&Co., directly or indirectly purchase any Shares (including by means of a derivative instrument), listed contracts on the Shares or securities that are convertible into, or exchangeable or exercisable for Shares (including, without limitation, any Rule 10b-18 purchases of blocks (as defined in Rule 10b-18)) during any Relevant Period or, if applicable, Settlement Valuation Period, except through GS&Co.
Counterparty Purchases
Rule 10b-18
9. . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein or in the Equity Definitions:
Special Provisions for Merger Transactions
(a) Counterparty agrees that it:
(i) will not during the period commencing on the Trade Date through the end of the Relevant Period or, if applicable, the Settlement Valuation Period for any Transaction make, or permit to be made, any public announcement (as defined in Rule 165(f) under the Securities Act) of any Merger Transaction or potential Merger Transaction unless such public announcement is made prior to the opening or after the close of the regular trading session on the Exchange for the Shares;
(ii) shall promptly (but in any event prior to the next opening of the regular trading session on the Exchange) notify GS&Co. following any such announcement that such announcement has been made; and
(iii) shall promptly (but in any event prior to the next opening of the regular trading session on the Exchange) provide GS&Co. with written notice specifying (i) Counterparty's average daily Rule 10b-18 Purchases (as defined in Rule 10b-18) during the three full calendar months immediately preceding the announcement date that were not effected through GS&Co. or its affiliates and (ii) the number of Shares purchased pursuant to the proviso in Rule 10b-18(b)(4) under the Exchange Act for the three full calendar months preceding the announcement date. Such written notice shall be deemed to be a
 
certification by Counterparty to GS&Co. that such information is true and correct. In addition, Counterparty shall promptly notify GS&Co. of the earlier to occur of the completion of such transaction and the completion of the vote by target shareholders. Counterparty acknowledges that any such notice may cause the terms of any Transaction to be adjusted or such Transaction to be terminated; accordingly, Counterparty acknowledges that its delivery of such notice must comply with the standards set forth in Section 6 above.
(b) GS&Co. in its sole discretion may (i) make adjustments to the terms of any Transaction, including, without limitation, the Scheduled Termination Date or the Forward Price Adjustment Amount, and/or suspend the Hedge Period, the Calculation Period and/or any Settlement Valuation Period or (ii) treat the occurrence of such public announcement as an Additional Termination Event with Counterparty as the sole Affected Party and the Transactions hereunder as the Affected Transactions and with the amount under Section 6(e) of the Agreement determined taking into account the fact that the Calculation Period or Settlement Valuation Period, as the case may be, had fewer Scheduled Trading Days than originally anticipated.
"" means any merger, acquisition or similar transaction involving a recapitalization as contemplated by Rule 10b-18(a)(13)(iv) under the Exchange Act.
Merger Transaction
10. . (a) If an Acquisition Transaction Announcement occurs on or prior to the Settlement Date for any Transaction, then the Number of Shares to be Delivered for such Transaction shall be determined as if the words "less than the Minimum Shares and not" and ", but not below zero," were deleted from the definition thereof. If an Acquisition Transaction Announcement occurs after the Trade Date, but prior to the First Acceleration Date of any Transaction, the First Acceleration Date shall be the date of such Acquisition Transaction Announcement. If the Number of Shares to be Delivered for any settlement of any Transaction is a negative number, then the terms of the Counterparty Settlement Provisions in Annex A shall apply.
Special Provisions for Acquisition Transaction Announcements
(b) "" means (i) the announcement of an Acquisition Transaction, (ii) an announcement that Counterparty or any of its subsidiaries has entered into an agreement, a letter of intent or an understanding designed to result in an Acquisition Transaction, (iii) the announcement of the intention to solicit or enter into, or to explore strategic alternatives or other similar undertaking that may include, an Acquisition Transaction, or (iv) any other announcement that in the reasonable judgment of the Calculation Agent may result in an Acquisition Transaction. For the avoidance of doubt, announcements as used in the definition of Acquisition Transaction Announcement refer to any public announcement whether made by the Issuer or a third party.
Acquisition Transaction Announcement
(c) "" means (i) any Merger Event (for purposes of this definition the definition of Merger Event shall be read with the references therein to "100%" being replaced by "15%" and to "50%" by "75%" and without reference to the clause beginning immediately following the definition of Reverse Merger therein to the end of such definition), Tender Offer or Merger Transaction or any other transaction involving the merger of Counterparty with or into any third party, (ii) the sale or transfer of all or substantially all of the assets of Counterparty, (iii) a recapitalization, reclassification, binding share exchange or other similar transaction, (iv) any acquisition, lease, exchange, transfer, disposition (including by way of spin-off or distribution) of assets (including any capital stock or other ownership interests in subsidiaries) or other similar event by Counterparty or any of its subsidiaries where the aggregate consideration transferable or receivable by or to Counterparty or its subsidiaries exceeds 15% of the market capitalization of Counterparty and (v) any transaction in which Counterparty or its board of directors has a legal obligation to make a recommendation to its shareholders in respect of such transaction (whether pursuant to Rule 14e-2 under the Exchange Act or otherwise).
Acquisition Transaction
11. . (a) The parties hereto intend for:
Acknowledgments
(i) each Transaction to be a "securities contract" as defined in Section 741(7) of the Bankruptcy Code, a "swap agreement" as defined in Section 101(53B) of the Bankruptcy Code and a "forward contract" as defined in Section 101(25) of the Bankruptcy Code, and the parties hereto to be entitled to the protections afforded by, among other Sections, Sections 362(b)(6), 362(b)(17), 362(b)(27), 362(o), 546(e), 546(g), 546(j), 555, 556, 560 and 561 of the Bankruptcy Code;
 
(ii) the Agreement to be a "master netting agreement" as defined in Section 101(38A) of the Bankruptcy Code;
(iii) a party's right to liquidate, terminate or accelerate any Transaction, net out or offset termination values or payment amounts, and to exercise any other remedies upon the occurrence of any Event of Default or Termination Event under the Agreement with respect to the other party or any Extraordinary Event that results in the termination or cancellation of any Transaction to constitute a "contractual right" (as defined in the Bankruptcy Code); and
(iv) all payments for, under or in connection with each Transaction, all payments for the Shares (including, for the avoidance of doubt, payment of the Prepayment Amount) and the transfer of such Shares to constitute "settlement payments" and "transfers" (as defined in the Bankruptcy Code).
(b) Counterparty acknowledges that:
(i) during the term of any Transaction, GS&Co. and its affiliates may buy or sell Shares or other securities or buy or sell options or futures contracts or enter into swaps or other derivative securities in order to establish, adjust or unwind its hedge position with respect to such Transaction;
(ii) GS&Co. and its affiliates may also be active in the market for the Shares other than in connection with hedging activities in relation to any Transaction;
(iii) GS&Co. shall make its own determination as to whether, when or in what manner any hedging or market activities in Counterparty's securities shall be conducted and shall do so in a manner that it deems appropriate to hedge its price and market risk with respect to the Forward Price and the VWAP Price;
(iv) any market activities of GS&Co. and its affiliates with respect to the Shares may affect the market price and volatility of the Shares, as well as the Forward Price and VWAP Price, each in a manner that may be adverse to Counterparty; and
(v) each Transaction is a derivatives transaction in which it has granted GS&Co. an option; GS&Co. may purchase shares for its own account at an average price that may be greater than, or less than, the price paid by Counterparty under the terms of the related Transaction.
12. . The parties hereto acknowledge that no Transaction hereunder is secured by any collateral that would otherwise secure the obligations of Counterparty herein or pursuant to the Agreement.
Credit Support Documents
13. . (a) The parties agree to amend Section 6 of the Agreement by adding a new Section 6(f) thereto as follows:
Set-off
"(f) Upon the occurrence of an Event of Default or Termination Event with respect to a party who is the Defaulting Party or the Affected Party ("X"), the other party ("Y") will have the right (but not be obliged) without prior notice to X or any other person to set-off or apply any obligation of X owed to Y (or any Affiliate of Y) (whether or not matured or contingent and whether or not arising under the Agreement, and regardless of the currency, place of payment or booking office of the obligation) against any obligation of Y (or any Affiliate of Y) owed to X (whether or not matured or contingent and whether or not arising under the Agreement, and regardless of the currency, place of payment or booking office of the obligation). Y will give notice to the other party of any set-off effected under this Section 6(f).
 
Amounts (or the relevant portion of such amounts) subject to set-off may be converted by Y into the Termination Currency at the rate of exchange at which such party would be able, acting in a reasonable manner and in good faith, to purchase the relevant amount of such currency. If any obligation is unascertained, Y may in good faith estimate that obligation and set-off in respect of the estimate, subject to the relevant party accounting to the other when the obligation is ascertained. Nothing in this Section 6(f) shall be effective to create a charge or other security interest. This Section 6(f) shall be without prejudice and in addition to any right of set-off, combination of accounts, lien or other right to which any party is at any time otherwise entitled (whether by operation of law, contract or otherwise)."
(b) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the foregoing, GS&Co. agrees not to set off or net amounts due from Counterparty with respect to any Transaction against amounts due from GS&Co. to Counterparty with respect to contracts or instruments that are not Equity Contracts. "" means any transaction or instrument that does not convey to GS&Co. rights, or the ability to assert claims, that are senior to the rights and claims of common stockholders in the event of Counterparty's bankruptcy.
Equity Contract
14. . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, GS&Co. may, by prior notice to Counterparty, satisfy its obligation to deliver any Shares or other securities on any date due (an "") by making separate deliveries of Shares or such securities, as the case may be, at more than one time on or prior to such Original Delivery Date, so long as the aggregate number of Shares and other securities so delivered on or prior to such Original Delivery Date is equal to the number required to be delivered on such Original Delivery Date.
Delivery of Shares
Original Delivery Date
15. . In the event that an Early Termination Date (whether as a result of an Event of Default or a Termination Event) occurs or is designated with respect to any Transaction (except as a result of a Merger Event in which the consideration or proceeds to be paid to holders of Shares consists solely of cash), if either party would owe any amount to the other party pursuant to Section 6(d)(ii) of the Agreement (any such amount, a ""), then, in lieu of any payment of such Payment Amount, Counterparty may, no later than the Early Termination Date or the date on which such Transaction is terminated, elect to deliver or for GS&Co. to deliver, as the case may be, to the other party a number of Shares (or, in the case of a Merger Event, a number of units, each comprising the number or amount of the securities or property that a hypothetical holder of one Share would receive in such Merger Event (each such unit, an "" and, the securities or property comprising such unit, "")) with a value equal to the Payment Amount, as determined by the Calculation Agent (and the parties agree that, in making such determination of value, the Calculation Agent may take into account a number of factors, including the market price of the Shares or Alternative Delivery Property on the date of early termination and, if such delivery is made by GS&Co., the prices at which GS&Co. purchases Shares or Alternative Delivery Property to fulfill its delivery obligations under this Section 15); that in determining the composition of any Alternative Delivery Unit, if the relevant Merger Event involves a choice of consideration to be received by holders, such holder shall be deemed to have elected to receive the maximum possible amount of cash. If such delivery is made by Counterparty, paragraphs 2 through 7 of Annex A shall apply as if such delivery were a settlement of the Transaction to which Net Share Settlement applied, the Cash Settlement Payment Date were the Early Termination Date and the Forward Cash Settlement Amount were zero (0)  the Payment Amount owed by Counterparty.
Early Termination
Payment Amount
Alternative Delivery Unit
Alternative Delivery Property
provided
minus
16. . The parties acknowledge and agree that in calculating Loss pursuant to Section 6 of the Agreement GS&Co. may (but need not) determine losses without reference to actual losses incurred but based on expected losses assuming a commercially reasonable (including without limitation with regard to reasonable legal and regulatory guidelines) risk bid were used to determine loss to avoid awaiting the delay associated with closing out any hedge or related trading position in a commercially reasonable manner prior to or sooner following the designation of an Early Termination Date. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section 6(d)(ii) of the Agreement, all amounts calculated as being due in respect of an Early Termination Date under Section 6(e) of the Agreement will be payable on the day that notice of the amount payable is effective; that if Counterparty elects to receive Shares or Alternative Delivery Property in accordance with Section 15, such Shares or Alternative Delivery Property shall be delivered on a date selected by GS&Co as promptly as practicable.
Calculations and Payment Date upon Early Termination
provided
 
17. . The parties hereby agree that, notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein or in the Agreement, in the event that an Early Termination Date (whether as a result of an Event of Default or a Termination Event) occurs or is designated with respect to any Transaction and, as a result, Counterparty owes to GS&Co. an amount calculated under Section 6(e) of the Agreement, such amount shall be deemed to be zero; that following an Acquisition Transaction Announcement, this Section 16 shall cease to apply.
Special Provisions for Counterparty Payments
provided
18. . For the avoidance of doubt, nothing in this Master Confirmation shall be interpreted as requiring Counterparty to deliver cash in respect of the settlement of the Transactions contemplated by this Master Confirmation following payment by Counterparty of the relevant Prepayment Amount, except in circumstances where the required cash settlement thereof is permitted for classification of the contract as equity by EITF 00-19 as in effect on the relevant Trade Date (including, without limitation, where Counterparty so elects to deliver cash or fails timely to elect to deliver Shares or Alternative Delivery Property in respect of the settlement of such Transactions).
Delivery of Cash
19. . GS&Co. acknowledges and agrees that this Confirmation is not intended to convey to it rights with respect to the Transaction that are senior to the claims of common stockholders in the event of Counterparty's bankruptcy.
Claim in Bankruptcy
20. . Notwithstanding anything herein or in the Agreement to the contrary, in no event shall GS&Co. be required to deliver Shares or Alternative Delivery Property in connection with the Transaction in excess of 8,000,000 Shares or Alternative Delivery Units, as the case may be (as such number may be adjusted from time to time in accordance with the provisions hereof).
Limitation on Settlement by GS&Co
21. . With respect to each Transaction, (i) this Master Confirmation, together with the related Supplemental Confirmation, as supplemented by the related Trade Notification, is a "qualified financial contract", as such term is defined in Section 5-701(b)(2) of the General Obligations Law of New York (the ""); (ii) such Trade Notification constitutes a "confirmation in writing sufficient to indicate that a contract has been made between the parties" hereto, as set forth in Section 5-701(b)(3)(b) of the General Obligations Law; and (iii) this Master Confirmation, together with the related Supplemental Confirmation, constitutes a prior "written contract" as set forth in Section 5-701(b)(1)(b) of the General Obligations Law, and each party hereto intends and agrees to be bound by this Master Confirmation and the related Supplemental Confirmation, as supplemented by the Trade Notification.
General Obligations Law of New York
General Obligations Law
22. . The Agreement, this Master Confirmation, each Supplemental Confirmation, each Trade Notification and all matters arising in connection with the Agreement, this Master Confirmation, each Supplemental Confirmation and each Trade Notification shall be governed by, and construed and enforced in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York (without reference to its choice of laws doctrine other than Title 14 of Article 5 of the New York General Obligations Law).
Governing Law
23. .
Offices
(a) The Office of GS&Co. for each Transaction is: One New York Plaza, New York, New York 10004.
(b) The Office of Counterparty for each Transaction is: Intuitive Surgical, Inc., 1266 Kifer Rd, Sunnyvale, CA 94086
24. . The Agreement, this Master Confirmation, each Supplemental Confirmation and each Trade Notification are subject to the following arbitration provisions:
Arbitration
(a) All parties to this Master Confirmation are giving up the right to sue each other in court, including the right to a trial by jury, except as provided by the rules of the arbitration forum in which a claim is filed.
 
(b) Arbitration awards are generally final and binding; a party's ability to have a court reverse or modify an arbitration award is very limited.
(c) The ability of the parties to obtain documents, witness statements and other discovery is generally more limited in arbitration than in court proceedings.
(d) The arbitrators do not have to explain the reason(s) for their award.
(e) The panel of arbitrators will typically include a minority of arbitrators who were or are affiliated with the securities industry, unless Counterparty is a member of the organization sponsoring the arbitration facility, in which case all arbitrators may be affiliated with the securities industry.
(f) The rules of some arbitration forums may impose time limits for bringing a claim in arbitration. In some cases, a claim that is ineligible for arbitration may be brought in court.
(g) The rules of the arbitration forum in which the claim is filed, and any amendments thereto, shall be incorporated into this Master Confirmation.
Counterparty agrees that any and all controversies that may arise between Counterparty and GSI, including, but not limited to, those arising out of or relating to the Agreement or any Transaction hereunder, shall be determined by arbitration conducted before FINRA Dispute Resolution ("FINRA-DR"), or if FINRA-DR decline to hear the matter, before the American Arbitration Association, in accordance with their arbitration rules then in force. The award of the arbitrator shall be final, and judgment upon the award rendered may be entered in any court, state or federal, having jurisdiction.
No person shall bring a putative or certified class action to arbitration, nor seek to enforce any pre-dispute arbitration agreement against any person who has initiated in court a putative class action or who is a member of a putative class who has not opted out of the class with respect to any claims encompassed by the putative class action until: (i) the class certification is denied; (ii) the class is decertified; or (iii) Counterparty is excluded from the class by the court.
Such forbearance to enforce an agreement to arbitrate shall not constitute a waiver of any rights under this Master Confirmation except to the extent stated herein.
25. . This Master Confirmation may be executed in any number of counterparts, all of which shall constitute one and the same instrument, and any party hereto may execute this Master Confirmation by signing and delivering one or more counterparts.
Counterparts
 
Counterparty hereby agrees (a) to check this Master Confirmation carefully and immediately upon receipt so that errors or discrepancies can be promptly identified and rectified and (b) to confirm that the foregoing (in the exact form provided by GS&Co.) correctly sets forth the terms of the agreement between GS&Co. and Counterparty with respect to any particular Transaction to which this Master Confirmation relates, by manually signing this Master Confirmation or this page hereof as evidence of agreement to such terms and providing the other information requested herein and immediately returning an executed copy to Equity Derivatives Documentation Department, Facsimile No. 212-428-1980/83.
 
 
 
The purpose of this Supplemental Confirmation is to confirm the terms and conditions of the Transaction entered into between Goldman, Sachs & Co. ("") and Intuitive Surgical, Inc. ("") (together, the "") on the Trade Date specified below. Supplemental Confirmation is a binding contract between GS&Co. and Counterparty as of the relevant Trade Date for the Transaction referenced below.
GS&Co.
Counterparty
Contracting Parties
1. This Supplemental Confirmation supplements, forms part of, and is subject to the Master Confirmation dated as of March 4, 2009 (the "") between the Contracting Parties, as amended and supplemented from time to time. All provisions contained in the Master Confirmation govern this Supplemental Confirmation except as expressly modified below.
Master Confirmation
2. The terms of the Transaction to which this Supplemental Confirmation relates are as follows:
 
 
3. Counterparty represents and warrants to GS&Co. that neither it nor any "affiliated purchaser" (as defined in Rule 10b-18 under the Exchange Act) has made any purchases of blocks pursuant to the proviso in Rule 10b-18(b)(4) under the Exchange Act during either (i) the four full calendar weeks immediately preceding the Trade Date or (ii) during the calendar week in which the Trade Date occurs.
4. This Supplemental Confirmation may be executed in any number of counterparts, all of which shall constitute one and the same instrument, and any party hereto may execute this Supplemental Confirmation by signing and delivering one or more counterparts.
 
Counterparty hereby agrees (a) to check this Supplemental Confirmation carefully and immediately upon receipt so that errors or discrepancies can be promptly identified and rectified and (b) to confirm that the foregoing (in the exact form provided by GS&Co.) correctly sets forth the terms of the agreement between GS&Co. and Counterparty with respect to the Transaction to which this Supplemental Confirmation relates, by manually signing this Supplemental Confirmation or this page hereof as evidence of agreement to such terms and providing the other information requested herein and immediately returning an executed copy to Equity Derivatives Documentation Department, facsimile No. 212-428-1980/83.
 
 
 
 
The purpose of this Trade Notification is to notify you of certain terms in the Transaction entered into between Goldman, Sachs & Co. ("") and Intuitive Surgical, Inc. ("") (together, the "") on the Trade Date specified below.
GS&Co.
Counterparty
Contracting Parties
This Trade Notification supplements, forms part of, and is subject to the Supplemental Confirmation dated as of March 4, 2009 (the "") between the Contracting Parties, as amended and supplemented from time to time. The Supplemental Confirmation is subject to the Master Confirmation dated as of March 4, 2009 (the "") between the Contracting Parties, as amended and supplemented from time to time.
Supplemental Confirmation
Master Confirmation
 
 
 
1. The following Counterparty Settlement Provisions shall apply to the extent indicated under the Master Confirmation:
 
2. Net Share Settlement shall be made by delivery on the Cash Settlement Payment Date of a number of Shares satisfying the conditions set forth in paragraph 3 below (the ""), or a number of Shares not satisfying such conditions (the ""), in either case with a value equal to the absolute value of the Forward Cash Settlement Amount, with such Shares' value based on the value thereof to GS&Co. (which value shall, in the case of Unregistered Settlement Shares, take into account a commercially reasonable illiquidity discount), in each case as determined by the Calculation Agent.
Registered Settlement Shares
Unregistered Settlement Shares
3. Counterparty may only deliver Registered Settlement Shares pursuant to paragraph 2 above if:
(a) a registration statement covering public resale of the Registered Settlement Shares by GS&Co. (the "") shall have been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Act and been declared or otherwise become effective on or prior to the date of delivery, and no stop order shall be in effect with respect to the Registration Statement; a printed prospectus relating to the Registered Settlement Shares (including any prospectus supplement thereto, the "") shall have been delivered to GS&Co., in such quantities as GS&Co. shall reasonably have requested, on or prior to the date of delivery;
Registration Statement
Prospectus
(b) the form and content of the Registration Statement and the Prospectus (including, without limitation, any sections describing the plan of distribution) shall be satisfactory to GS&Co.;
(c) as of or prior to the date of delivery, GS&Co. and its agents shall have been afforded a reasonable opportunity to conduct a due diligence investigation with respect to Counterparty customary in scope for underwritten offerings of equity securities and the results of such investigation are satisfactory to GS&Co., in its discretion; and
(d) as of the date of delivery, an agreement (the "") shall have been entered into with GS&Co. in connection with the public resale of the Registered Settlement Shares by GS&Co. substantially similar to underwriting agreements customary for underwritten offerings of equity securities, in form and substance satisfactory to GS&Co., which Underwriting Agreement shall include, without limitation, provisions substantially similar to those contained in such underwriting agreements relating, without limitation, to the indemnification of, and contribution in connection with the liability of, GS&Co. and its affiliates and the provision of customary opinions, accountants' comfort letters and lawyers' negative assurance letters.
Underwriting Agreement
4. If Counterparty delivers Unregistered Settlement Shares pursuant to paragraph 2 above:
(a) all Unregistered Settlement Shares shall be delivered to GS&Co. (or any affiliate of GS&Co. designated by GS&Co.) pursuant to the exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act provided by Section 4(2) thereof;
(b) as of or prior to the date of delivery, GS&Co. and any potential purchaser of any such shares from GS&Co. (or any affiliate of GS&Co. designated by GS&Co.) identified by GS&Co. shall be afforded a commercially reasonable opportunity to conduct a due diligence investigation with respect to Counterparty customary in scope for private placements of equity securities for an issuance of its size (including, without limitation, the right to have made available to them for inspection all financial and other records, pertinent corporate documents and other information reasonably requested by them);
 
(c) as of the date of delivery, Counterparty shall enter into an agreement (a "") with GS&Co. (or any affiliate of GS&Co. designated by GS&Co.) in connection with the private placement of such shares by Counterparty to GS&Co. (or any such affiliate) and the private resale of such shares by GS&Co. (or any such affiliate), substantially similar to private placement purchase agreements customary for private placements of equity securities for an issuance of its size, in form and substance commercially reasonably satisfactory to GS&Co., which Private Placement Agreement shall include, without limitation, provisions substantially similar to those contained in such private placement purchase agreements relating, without limitation, to the indemnification of, and contribution in connection with the liability of, GS&Co. and its affiliates and the provision of customary opinions, accountants' comfort letters and lawyers' negative assurance letters, and shall provide for the payment by Counterparty of all fees and expenses in connection with such resale, including all fees and expenses of counsel for GS&Co., and shall contain representations, warranties, covenants and agreements of Counterparty reasonably necessary or advisable to establish and maintain the availability of an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act for such resales; and
Private Placement Agreement
(d) in connection with the private placement of such shares by Counterparty to GS&Co. (or any such affiliate) and the private resale of such shares by GS&Co. (or any such affiliate), Counterparty shall, if so requested by GS&Co., prepare, in cooperation with GS&Co., a private placement memorandum in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to GS&Co.
5. GS&Co., itself or through an affiliate (the "") or any underwriter(s), will sell all, or such lesser portion as may be required hereunder, of the Registered Settlement Shares or Unregistered Settlement Shares and any Makewhole Shares (as defined below) (together, the "") delivered by Counterparty to GS&Co. pursuant to paragraph 6 below commencing on the Cash Settlement Payment Date and continuing until the date on which the aggregate Net Proceeds (as such term is defined below) of such sales, as determined by GS&Co., is equal to the absolute value of the Forward Cash Settlement Amount (such date, the ""). If the proceeds of any sale(s) made by GS&Co., the Selling Agent or any underwriter(s), net of any fees and commissions (including, without limitation, underwriting or placement fees) customary for similar transactions under the circumstances at the time of the offering, together with carrying charges and expenses incurred in connection with the offer and sale of the Shares (including, but without limitation to, the covering of any over-allotment or short position (syndicate or otherwise)) (the "") exceed the absolute value of the Forward Cash Settlement Amount, GS&Co. will refund, in USD, such excess to Counterparty on the date that is three (3) Currency Business Days following the Final Resale Date, and, if any portion of the Settlement Shares remains unsold, GS&Co. shall return to Counterparty on that date such unsold Shares.
Selling Agent
Settlement Shares
Final Resale Date
Net Proceeds
6. If the Calculation Agent determines that the Net Proceeds received from the sale of the Registered Settlement Shares or Unregistered Settlement Shares or any Makewhole Shares, if any, pursuant to this paragraph 6 are less than the absolute value of the Forward Cash Settlement Amount (the amount in USD by which the Net Proceeds are less than the absolute value of the Forward Cash Settlement Amount being the "" and the date on which such determination is made, the ""), Counterparty shall on the Exchange Business Day next succeeding the Deficiency Determination Date (the "") deliver to GS&Co., through the Selling Agent, a notice of Counterparty's election that Counterparty shall either (i) pay an amount in cash equal to the Shortfall on the day that is one (1) Currency Business Day after the Makewhole Notice Date, or (ii) deliver additional Shares. If Counterparty elects to deliver to GS&Co. additional Shares, then Counterparty shall deliver additional Shares in compliance with the terms and conditions of paragraph 3 or paragraph 4 above, as the case may be (the ""), on the first Clearance System Business Day which is also an Exchange Business Day following the Makewhole Notice Date in such number as the Calculation Agent reasonably believes would have a market value on that Exchange Business Day equal to the Shortfall. Such Makewhole Shares shall be sold by GS&Co. in accordance with the provisions above; that if the sum of the Net Proceeds from the sale of the originally delivered Shares and the Net Proceeds from the sale of any Makewhole Shares is less than the absolute value of the Forward Cash Settlement Amount then Counterparty shall, at its election, either make such cash payment or deliver to GS&Co. further Makewhole Shares until such Shortfall has been reduced to zero.
Shortfall
Deficiency Determination Date
Makewhole Notice Date
Makewhole Shares
provided
 
7. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event shall the aggregate number of Settlement Shares and Makewhole Shares be greater than the Reserved Shares the amount of any Shares actually delivered by Counterparty under any other Transaction(s) under this Master Confirmation (the result of such calculation, the ""). Counterparty represents and warrants (which shall be deemed to be repeated on each day that a Transaction is outstanding) that the Capped Number is equal to or less than the number of Shares determined according to the following formula:
minus
Capped Number
 
"" means initially, 10,000,000 Shares. The Reserved Shares may be increased or decreased in a Supplemental Confirmation.
Reserved Shares
 
 
The purpose of this Supplemental Confirmation is to confirm the terms and conditions of the Transaction entered into between Goldman, Sachs & Co. ("") and Intuitive Surgical, Inc. ("") (together, the "") on the Trade Date specified below. Supplemental Confirmation is a binding contract between GS&Co. and Counterparty as of the relevant Trade Date for the Transaction referenced below.
GS&Co.
Counterparty
Contracting Parties
1. This Supplemental Confirmation supplements, forms part of, and is subject to the Master Confirmation dated as of March 4, 2009 (the "") between the Contracting Parties, as amended and supplemented from time to time. All provisions contained in the Master Confirmation govern this Supplemental Confirmation except as expressly modified below.
Master Confirmation
2. The terms of the Transaction to which this Supplemental Confirmation relates are as follows:
 
 
3. Counterparty represents and warrants to GS&Co. that neither it nor any "affiliated purchaser" (as defined in Rule 10b-18 under the Exchange Act) has made any purchases of blocks pursuant to the proviso in Rule 10b-18(b)(4) under the Exchange Act during either (i) the four full calendar weeks immediately preceding the Trade Date or (ii) during the calendar week in which the Trade Date occurs.
4. This Supplemental Confirmation may be executed in any number of counterparts, all of which shall constitute one and the same instrument, and any party hereto may execute this Supplemental Confirmation by signing and delivering one or more counterparts.
 
Counterparty hereby agrees (a) to check this Supplemental Confirmation carefully and immediately upon receipt so that errors or discrepancies can be promptly identified and rectified and (b) to confirm that the foregoing (in the exact form provided by GS&Co.) correctly sets forth the terms of the agreement between GS&Co. and Counterparty with respect to the Transaction to which this Supplemental Confirmation relates, by manually signing this Supplemental Confirmation or this page hereof as evidence of agreement to such terms and providing the other information requested herein and immediately returning an executed copy to Equity Derivatives Documentation Department, facsimile No. 212-428-1980/83.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
I S A S R P
NTUITIVE
URGICAL
NNOUNCES
HARE
EPURCHASE
ROGRAM
SUNNYVALE, Calif., March 4, 2009  Intuitive Surgical, Inc. (NASDAQ:ISRG), the industry leader in surgical robotics, today announced that its board of directors has authorized the repurchase of up to $300 million of the Company's outstanding common stock. In connection with this stock repurchase authorization, the Company entered into a collared accelerated share repurchase program (the "ASR Program") with Goldman, Sachs & Co. ("Goldman") pursuant to which Intuitive will repurchase $150 million of its common stock from Goldman. A majority of the shares purchased under the ASR Program will be received and retired within 2 weeks. The remaining shares, if any, under the program will be received and retired by June, although they could be received earlier if the ASR Program is ended earlier.
Additional purchases by the Company under the remaining authorization, or $150 million may be made from time to time in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions, accelerated stock repurchase programs, issuer self-tender offers or otherwise, as determined by the Company's management. The Company expects to fund the $300 million program through cash and investments. As of December 31, 2008 the Company had approximately $902 million of cash, cash equivalents and investments.
:
About Intuitive's Products
The Surgical System consists of a surgeon's viewing and control console having an integrated, high-performance
da Vinci
InSite
3-D, high definition vision system, a patient-side cart consisting of three or four robotic arms that position and precisely maneuver endoscopic instruments and an endoscope, and a variety of articulating Instruments. By integrating computer-enhanced technology with surgeons' technical skills, Intuitive believes that its system enables surgeons to perform better surgery in a manner never before experienced. The Surgical System seamlessly and directly translates the surgeon's natural hand, wrist and finger movements on instrument controls at the surgeon's console outside the patient's body into corresponding micro-movements of the instrument tips positioned inside the patient through small puncture incisions, or ports.
EndoWrist
da Vinci
, , , and are trademarks or registered trademarks of Intuitive Surgical, Inc.
Intuitive
da Vinci
da Vinci
S
,
InSite
EndoWrist
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are necessarily estimates reflecting the best judgment of our management and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements The statements in this press release that could be deemed forward-looking statements include statements regarding the repurchase by the Company of $300 million of its common stock (including the $150 million repurchase of common stock from Goldman), the expected completion dates of the repurchases, our source of funds for the repurchases, and our plans with respect to the repurchased shares. These forward-looking statements should, therefore, be considered in light of various important factors, including the following: the market prices of the Company's common stock during the term and after the completion of the ASR Program; the ability of Goldman to buy or borrow shares of the Company's common stock; the uncertainty regarding the Company's ability to complete the share repurchases within the proposed timing or at all; the uncertainty regarding the amount and timing of future share repurchases by the Company and the origin of funds used for such repurchases; the impact of the global economic recession and tightening credit market, as well as the risk of bank failures, insolvency or illiquidity of other financial institutions and other adverse conditions in financial markets that could cause a loss of our cash, cash equivalents and investments; the terms and conditions of the Master Confirmation and Supplemental Confirmation with Goldman, Sachs & Co. and the other factors detailed from time to time under the heading "Risk Factors" in our report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, as updated from time to time by our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Statements concerning forecasts, revenue growth, procedure growth, future financial results, and statements using words such as "will", "may", "estimate", "project", "plan", "intend", "expect", "anticipate", "believe" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or release any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this press release or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.


