FILE:ISRG/ISRG-8K-20090107162540.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 7, 2009, Intuitive Surgical, Inc. ("Intuitive") issued a press release announcing its preliminary revenue results for the quarter ended December 31, 2008. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in this Current Report, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing of Intuitive under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act.
 
(d) Exhibits.
The following exhibit is furnished with this report on Form 8-K:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
I S A P F Q 2008 R R
NTUITIVE
URGICAL
NNOUNCES
RELIMINARY
OURTH
UARTER
EVENUE
ESULTS
SUNNYVALE, CALIF. January 7, 2009  Intuitive Surgical, Inc. (NASDAQ: ISRG), the industry leader in surgical robotics, today announced preliminary fourth quarter 2008 revenue of approximately $232 million, increasing 22% from $189 million for the fourth quarter of 2007. Preliminary annual revenue for 2008 is expected to be approximately $875 million, increasing 46% from $601 million for the year ended 2007.
procedures increased approximately 60% for the year to approximately 136,000 procedures, up from approximately 85,000 procedures performed in 2007. Procedure growth was primarily driven by the strength of the Urologic and Gynecologic specialties.
da Vinci
Intuitive sold 85 Surgical Systems during the fourth quarter of 2008, bringing the total number of Systems sold for the year to 335. 55 of the total 85 Systems sold in the fourth quarter of 2008 were in the United States, while 30 Systems were sold internationally.
da Vinci
Fourth quarter 2008 instruments and accessories revenue increased approximately 45% to $82 million from $56 million during the fourth quarter of 2007. Fourth quarter 2008 Surgical Systems revenue increased approximately 5% to $114 million from $108 million during the fourth quarter of 2007. Fourth quarter 2008 service revenue increased approximately 46% to $36 million from $25 million during the fourth quarter of 2007.
da Vinci
The Company expects revenue to increase approximately 15% in 2009 reflecting increased instrument, accessory and service revenue, while systems revenue is expected to remain relatively flat.
Commenting on the announcement, Lonnie Smith, Chairman and CEO of Intuitive Surgical, said, "Our system sales in the quarter reflect the challenging global economic and financial market environment. At this point, we believe that uncertainty in global economic markets will make forecasting system placements difficult into 2009. Procedure growth remained strong worldwide. We continue to believe that procedures are the leading indicator for the strength of our business."
Intuitive is scheduled to report its 2009 fourth quarter results in a webcast and conference call on January 22, 2009, at which point the Company will discuss in more detail the results of the quarter and guidance for 2009. Dial-in and webcast access information is available in the Investor Relations section of the Intuitive Surgical website at: http://www.intuitivesurgical.com.
:
About Intuitive's Products
The Surgical System consists of a surgeon's viewing and control console having an integrated, high-performance
da Vinci
InSite
3-D, high definition vision system, a patient-side cart consisting of three or four robotic arms that position and precisely maneuver endoscopic instruments and an endoscope, and a variety of articulating Instruments. By integrating computer-enhanced technology with surgeons' technical skills, Intuitive believes that its system enables surgeons to perform better surgery in a manner never before experienced. The Surgical System seamlessly and directly translates the surgeon's natural hand, wrist and finger movements on instrument controls at the surgeon's console outside the patient's body into corresponding micro-movements of the instrument tips positioned inside the patient through small puncture incisions, or ports.
EndoWrist
da Vinci
, , , and are trademarks or registered trademarks of Intuitive Surgical, Inc.
Intuitive
da Vinci
da Vinci
S
,
InSite
EndoWrist
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are necessarily estimates reflecting the best judgment of our management and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements should, therefore, be considered in light of various important factors, including the following: the impact of the global economic recession and tightening credit market and related impact on health care spending; timing and success of product development and market acceptance of developed products; regulatory approvals, clearances and restrictions; guidelines and recommendations in the health care and patient communities; intellectual property positions and litigation; competition in the medical device industry and in the specific markets of surgery in which Intuitive Surgical operates; unanticipated manufacturing disruptions; delays in regulatory approvals of new manufacturing facilities or the inability to meet demand for products, the results of the year end audit, and the other factors detailed from time to time under the heading "Risk Factors" in our report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, as updated from time to time by our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Statements concerning forecasts, revenue growth, procedure growth, future financial results, and statements using words such as "preliminary", "estimate", "project", "plan", "intend", "expect", "anticipate", "believe" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. The 2008 financial data for the fourth quarter of 2008, year end 2008 and related discussions presented in this press release are preliminary, unaudited and unreviewed and reflect Intuitive's current estimates and are subject to change. They should be viewed as reflecting Intuitive's current expectations and with due regard to items still to be completed. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or release any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this press release or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.


