FILE:ISRG/ISRG-8K-20110208185049.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(e)
On February 3, 2011, following the recommendation of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Intuitive Surgical, Inc. ("Intuitive" or the "Company"), the Board approved a decrease of $100,000 in the base salary for Lonnie Smith, the Company's executive officer as well as the Chairman of the Board. Mr. Smith's new base salary, effective January 1, 2011, will be $100,000 and he will not participate in the Company's bonus plan.
 
On February 3, 2011, the Board authorized the Company to repurchase up to an additional $298.8 million of the Company's outstanding common stock. With this authorization, the total remaining authorized amount of share repurchases by the Company is $400 million, which includes $101.2 million remaining under previous authorizations. A copy of the Company's press release announcing the increase in the share repurchase program is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this Item 7.01, including information incorporated herein by reference, is intended to be furnished and shall not be deemed "Filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
I S A S R P
NTUITIVE
URGICAL
NNOUNCES
HARE
EPURCHASE
ROGRAM
SUNNYVALE, CALIF. February 8, 2011  Intuitive Surgical, Inc. (NASDAQ: ISRG), the industry leader in surgical robotics, today announced that its board of directors has authorized the company to repurchase up to $400 million of the Company's outstanding common stock. This represents an increase over the $101 million remaining under previous authorizations.
The timing and total amount of share repurchases will depend upon market conditions and may be made from time to time in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions, accelerated stock repurchase programs, issuer self-tender offers or otherwise, as determined by the Company's management. The repurchases will be made in compliance with, and at such times as permitted by, federal securities law and may be suspended or discontinued at any time. The Company expects to fund the repurchase program through cash and investments. As of December 31, 2010, the Company had approximately $1,609 million of cash, cash equivalents and investments.
About Intuitive's Products
Intuitive Surgical, Inc. (NASDAQ: ISRG), headquartered in Sunnyvale, California, is the global technology leader in robotic-assisted, minimally invasive surgery. Intuitive Surgical develops, manufactures, and markets robotic technologies designed to improve clinical outcomes and help patients return more quickly to active and productive lives. The Company's mission is to extend the benefits of minimally invasive surgery to the broadest possible base of patients. Intuitive Surgical  Taking surgery beyond the limits of the human hand.
About the  Surgical System
da Vinci
The  Surgical System is a breakthrough surgical platform designed to enable complex surgery using a minimally invasive approach. The  Surgical System consists of an ergonomic surgeon console or consoles, a patient-side cart with three or four interactive robotic
da Vinci
da Vinci
arms, a high-performance vision system and proprietary  instruments. Powered by state-of-the-art robotic and computer technology, the Surgical System is designed to scale, filter and seamlessly translate the surgeon's hand movements into more precise movements of the  instruments. The net result is an intuitive interface with breakthrough surgical capabilities. By providing surgeons with superior visualization, enhanced dexterity, greater precision and ergonomic comfort, the Surgical System makes it possible for more surgeons to perform minimally invasive procedures involving complex dissection or reconstruction. This ultimately has the potential to raise the standard of care for complex surgeries, translating into numerous potential patient benefits, including less pain, a shorter recovery and quicker return to normal daily activities.
EndoWrist
da Vinci
EndoWrist
da Vinci
, , ,  , , Single-Site, DVSTAT
Intuitive
da Vinci
da Vinci S
da Vinci
Si
da Vinci Si-e HD Surgical System
TM
, and are trademarks or registered trademarks of Intuitive Surgical, Inc.
InSite
EndoWrist
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are necessarily estimates reflecting the best judgment of our management and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements should, therefore, be considered in light of various important factors, including the following: the impact of global and regional economic conditions and related credit markets and related impact on health care spending; health care reform legislation in the United States and its implications on hospital spending, reimbursement and fees which will be levied on certain medical device revenues; timing and success of product development and market acceptance of developed products; procedure counts; regulatory approvals, clearances and restrictions; guidelines and recommendations in the health care and patient communities; intellectual property positions and litigation; competition in the medical device industry and in the specific markets of surgery in which Intuitive Surgical operates; unanticipated manufacturing disruptions; delays in regulatory approvals of new manufacturing facilities or the inability to meet demand for products; the results of the year end audit and the other factors under the heading ``Risk Factors" in our report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, as updated from time to time by our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and our other filings
with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Statements concerning forecasts, revenue growth, procedure growth, future financial results, and statements using words such as "estimate," "project," "plan," "intend," "expect," "anticipate," "believe" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or release any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this press release or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.


