FILE:SWN/SWN-8K-20020927140546.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: 
 
Item 7.(c)             (99.1) Slide presentation accompanying the September 27, 2002 presentation to investors at the Hyatt Regency in Old Greenwich, Connecticut during the 2002 John S. Herold Pacesetters Energy Conference. Item 9.             On September 27, 2002 Harold M. Korell, President and Chief Executive Officer for Southwestern Energy Company, made a presentation to investors at the Hyatt Regency in Old Greenwich, Connecticut for the 2002 John S, Herold Pacesetters Energy Conference. The accompanying slide show was made available on the Company's web site () the day of the presentation and is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.             Southwestern Energy Company is furnishing under Item 9 of this Current Report on Form 8-K the information included as exhibit 99.1 to this report. Note: The information in this report (including the exhibit) is furnished pursuant to Item 9 and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. This report will not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any information in the report that is required to be disclosed solely by Regulation FD.
Exhibits
Regulation FD Disclosures
www.swn.com
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Slides prepared for use with September 27, 2002, presentation to investors at the John S. Herold Pacesetters Energy Conference .
Slide Presentation dated September 27, 2002
(slide 1) Southwestern Energy Company Presentation to 2002 John S. Herold Pacesetters Energy Conference [NYSE: SWN] [picture of crescent and other wrenches]
(slide 2) Business Strategy [Slide stating formula which represents Company's strategy:  The Right People Doing the Right Things, supported by the value of underlying Assets will create Value +.]
(slide3) Creating the Netback Costs are only part of the equation. Swn's focus is creating the netback! The economic concept that is the foundation for all that we do is PVI.
(slide 4) What is PVI? PVI = Present Value Added per Dollar Invested PVI = PVdivided by Investment = PV((Price * Mcfe) - (Cost * Mcfe)) divided by Investment
10
10
(slide 5) Cash Flow per Mcfe - SWN is Competitive Graphs comparing Southwestern Energy Company's 3-year average Cash Flow per Mcfe of Production and Cash Flow per Mcfe of Reserves versus a peer group.
(slide 6) E&P Assets and Strategy - Organic Growth [map showing the states of Arkansas, Louisiana, Texas, Oklahoma and New Mexico with the following areas identified: Mid -Continent in north Texas and western Oklahoma, including the panhandle; Arkoma in western Arkansas and eastern Oklahoma; Texas/New Mexico in southeast New Mexico and eastern, central and the gulf coast areas of Texas; South Louisiana in gulf coast region of Louisiana; and Overton in eastern Texas]
(Slide 7) Strategy
Invest in the highest PVI projects. In 2002, add $1.30 to $1.50 of discounted value for each dollar invested.
Focus is on adding value through drilling;
Not on acquisitions - not buying just to get bigger.
Maximize cash flow to fund E&P program and pay down debt.
Over a multi-year program, achieve 10% annual growth in production and reserves.
Reduce debt-to-total capital ratio over time to 50%
 
(slide 8) Arkoma Basin [map showing location of Arkoma Basin in Arkansas and Oklahoma, the Arkoma Basin Fairway, the Ranger Anticline Prospect and the Haileyville Prospect.]
Arkoma Basin (table with LOE Cost and F&D Cost circled)             3-year average results             Reserve replacement: 96%             LOE Cost (incl. Taxes) ($/Mcf): $0.26             F&D Cost ($/Mcf): $1.05
Ranger Anticline             Success: 10/14 wells             Net EUR: 12.4 Bcf             F&D/Mcf: $.69
Haileyville             Success: 13/20 wells             Net EUR: 9.7 Bcf             F&D/Mcf: $.74
(slide 9) Overton Field - Multi-Year Drilling Program [map showing Overton Field area, including South Overton farm-in acreage of 5,800 acres, with producing well locations]
Overton Acquisition - Average working interest -97%
(slide 10)  Overton Field Gross Production Rate [graph showing Overton Field gross production rate increasing from 1.7 MMcfe/d in June 2000 to over 20.0 MMcfe/d in August 2002].
(slide 11) Drilling Time Improvement at Overton [graph showing the depth and drilling days of the Last 3 Wells,  SWN's Average and Prior Drilling]
(slide 12) Overton Drilling Economics
(slide 13) South Louisiana Exploration [map showing location of the 2002 proposed wells, discovery wells, the 3-D project areas, the Horeb, Havilah, Malone, North Grosbec, Gloria, and Crowne Discoveries and Duck Lake seismic area..
(slide 14) Exploration Potential - 251 Net Bcfe
 
(slide 15) The Right People Doing the Right Things [graph showing the company's results in PVI, F&D Cost and Reserve Replacement from 1997 to 2001] Note: PVI metrics calculated using pricing in effect at year-end (except for 2000 which was calculated at $3.00 per Mcf natural gas price). All metrics calculated exclude reserve revisions.
 
(slide16) E&P Results - Standing Out For the Periods Ended December 31, 2001
 
(slide 17) Keys to "Netback"
The Right People
Creative and Innovative People.
Appropriate Incentives for Employees and Contractors.
Doing the Right Things
Focus on PVI.
Low Cost Operating Areas.
Areas of High Potential per $ of Investment.
Apply Latest Technology.
Find Gas.
(slide 18) Gas Hedges in Place Through 2003 [chart showing gas hedges in place by quarter for the years 2002 and 2003]
Note: Approximately .2 Bcf hedged at a fixed NYMEX price of $2.75 per Mcf in first six months of 2003. Southwestern also has approximately 280,000 barrels of oil hedged at a fixed WTI price of $20.07 per barrel in 2002.
(slide 19) Forward-Looking Statements All statements, other than historical financial information, may be deemed to be forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Although the Company believes the expectations expressed in such forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, such statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual results or developments may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements herein include, but are not limited to, the timing and extent of changes in commodity prices for gas and oil, the timing and extent of the Company's success in discovering, developing, producing, and estimating reserves, property acquisition or divestiture activities that may occur, the effects of weather and regulation on the Company's gas distribution segment, increased competition, legal and economic factors, governmental regulation, the financial impact of accounting regulations for derivative instruments, changing market conditions, the comparative cost of alternative fuels, conditions in capital markets and changes in interest rates, availability of oil field services, drilling rigs, and other equipment, as well as other factors beyond the Company's control.
 



