FILE:SWN/SWN-8K-20030320165947.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Item 5.     
Other Events
Southwestern Energy Company announced March 20, 2003, that it completed the sale of 1,237,500 shares of common stock in connection with the exercise by the underwriters of the over-allotment option granted by the Company in the recent equity offering. Southwestern received an additional $13.5 million in net proceeds from the exercise of the over-allotment option. The approximately $103.3 million of aggregate net proceeds from the equity offering will be used to accelerate the development drilling of the Company's Overton Field in East Texas and for general corporate purposes. RBC Capital Markets acted as lead manager for the offering and Raymond James, Johnson Rice & Company L.L.C. and Hibernia Southcoast Capital acted as co-managers.
For additional information see exhibit 99.1.
Item 7.(c)    
Exhibits
(99.1) Press release dated March 20, 2003, announcing the exercise of the over-allotment option on Southwestern Energy Company's public offering.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
NEWS RELEASE
 
        Houston, Texas - March 20, 2003...Southwestern Energy Company (NYSE: SWN) announced today that it completed the sale of 1,237,500 shares of common stock in connection with the exercise by the underwriters of the over-allotment option granted by the Company in the recent equity offering.
        Southwestern received an additional $13.5 million in net proceeds from the exercise of the over-allotment option. The approximately $103.3 million of aggregate net proceeds from the equity offering will be used to accelerate the development drilling of the Company's Overton Field in East Texas and for general corporate purposes. RBC Capital Markets acted as lead manager for the offering and Raymond James, Johnson Rice & Company L.L.C. and Hibernia Southcoast Capital acted as co-managers.
        Southwestern Energy Company is an independent energy company primarily focused on the exploration for and production of natural gas. Additional information on the Company can be found on the Internet at
http://www.swn.com
.
 
 



