FILE:SWN/SWN-8K-20040802171322.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure

EXHIBIT 99.1
Slide Presentation dated August 2, 2004
The following slides were presented August 2, 2004 to investors and analysts at The Oil & Gas Conference Denver held at The Pinnacle Club in Denver, Colorado.
(Slide 1)
Southwestern Energy Company
Presentation to The Oil & Gas Conference Denver, August 2, 2004
This left side of this slide contains a picture of a snow-capped volcano. The caption above reads "The Power Within."  The Company's formula is located in the bottom right corner.  The top right corner of this slide contains a box with a picture of an oil derrick and "75 years SWN 1929 - 2004."
(Slide 2) Southwestern Energy Company (NYSE: SWN)
General Information
Southwestern Energy Company is an independent energy company primarily focused on the exploration for and production of natural gas. Our strategy is to add at least $1.30 in discounted value for every dollar invested in a focused exploration and production program in the Arkoma and Permian Basins, East Texas and the onshore Gulf Coast.
Market Data as of July 27, 2004
Investor Contacts
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Greg D. Kerley
 
Manager, Investor Relations
Brad D. Sylvester, CFA
(Slide 3)
Forward-Looking Statements
This presentation includes certain statements that may be deemed to be "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements, other than historical financial information, may be deemed to be forward-looking statements. Although the Company believes the expectations expressed in such forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, such statements are not guarantees of future performance and that actual results or developments may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. We have no obligation and make no undertaking to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.  Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements herein include, but are not limited to, the timing and extent of changes in commodity prices for gas and oil, the timing and extent of the Company's success in discovering, developing, producing and estimating reserves, property acquisition or divestiture activities that may occur, the effects of weather and regulation on the Company's gas distribution segment, increased competition, the impact of federal, state and local government regulation, the financial impact of accounting regulations and critical accounting policies, changing market conditions and prices, the comparative cost of alternative fuels, conditions in capital markets and changes in interest rates, availability of oil field personnel, services, drilling rigs and other equipment, as well as other factors beyond the Company's control.  For additional information with respect to certain of these and other factors, see the reports filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  The Company specifically disclaims all responsibility to publicly update any information contained in a forward-looking statement or any forward-looking statement in its entirety and therefore disclaim any resulting liability for potentially related damages. Without limiting the foregoing, all financial information and strategies contained herein have been prepared by the Company and are based on a number of assumptions that are subject to significant uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond the Company's control.  There can be no assurance that the assumptions will prove to be accurate or that the amounts included in the projections will be realized or transactions currently contemplated in strategies will be completed, and actual future results may be materially higher or lower than those shown.
(Slide 4) About Southwestern
(Slide 5) Current Highlights
2003
First Six Months 2004
(1)
 
EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure.  See explanation and reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures on pages 30 and 31.
(Slide 6) Proven Track Record
This slide contains bar charts for the periods ended December 31.
Note: Reserve data excludes reserve revisions.
(1)  EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure. See explanation and reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures on pages 30 and 31.
 
(Slide 7) SWN is One of the Lowest Cost Operators
This slide contains a bar graph that compares SWN to its competitors in terms of lifting cost per Mcfe of production (3 year average).
This slide also contains a bar graph comparing SWN to its competitors in terms of drillbit F&D cost per Mcfe (3 year average).
 
Source:  John S. Herold Database
Note:  All data as of December 31, 2001, 2002, and 2003.
(Slide 8) E&P Focused
This slide contains a map of Arkansas, Louisiana, Oklahoma, Texas and New Mexico with shadings to denote the Arkoma and Permian Basins, the Gulf Coast region and the East Texas region. Lines trace gas distribution pipelines and the Ozark Pipeline.
E&P Segment
Arkoma
East Texas (Overton)
Gulf Coast
Permian
Utility Segment
(Slide 9) Capital Investments
This slide contains a bar chart of Company capital investments, summarized as follows:
This slide also contains a pie chart of Company's planned 2004 capital investments by area of operation, summarized as follows:
 
(1) Net of $13.5 million reimbursement from Overton Field partnership.
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "forward-looking statement".
(Slide 10) East Texas - Overton Field
This slide contains a map of Smith County, Texas where the Overton Field is located.  Existing wells at year-end 2002, 2003 and 2004 development well locations are denoted.  It is stated that the Overton Field contains 17,900 acres and the South Overton Farm-in Acreage contains 6,500 acres.
Overton Field reserve potential:
 
Overton Field Three-Year Average Results:
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "forward-looking statement".
(Slide 11) Overton Field Gross Production
The graph contained in this slide displays the Overton Field gross production rate (MMcfe/d) from the year 2000 to December 2004 and the potential gross production rate for 2004 under both an accelerated drilling program and under an eighteen well per year program.
Overton Field Net Production:
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "forward-looking statement".
(Slide 12) Overton Field - Improved Drilling Results
This slide of drilling days versus depth portrays the improved drilling rate in the Overton Field since its purchase from Fina in 2001.  Fina's average drilling rate was 55 days.  Upon the Field's purchase in 2001 we decreased that rate to 35 days.  It was further decreased to 27 days in 2002, 23 days in 2003 and 22 days in 2004.
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "forward-looking statement".
(Slide 13) Arkoma Basin
This slide contains a map of Arkansas and Oklahoma with shading to denote the Arkoma Basin. The Ranger Anticline, Haileyville and the area known as the Fairway are further noted.
Arkoma Basin Three-Year Average Results:
Ranger Anticline:
Haileyville:
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "forward-looking statement".
(Slide 14) Ranger Anticline
This slide contains a map of the Ranger Anticline prospect with the Company's exploratory acreage and acreage held by production designated with shading.  Also shown are SWN's successful wells at 6/30/04, 2004 proposed wells, the Smith #1-10, and the Albright #1-7 wells.
Ranger Anticline:
 
Ranger Anticline Potential:
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "forward-looking statement".
(Slide 15) Focused on Adding Value
Note:  Our ability to achieve our target PVI results are dependent upon the current and future market prices for natural gas and crude oil, costs associated with producing natural gas and crude oil and our ability to add reserves at an acceptable cost.
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "forward-looking statement".
(Slide 16) 2004 Exploration
This slide contains a map of Arkansas, Louisiana, Oklahoma, Texas and New Mexico with shading to denote areas of Company operations.  An exploded map of a portion of New Mexico details the River Ridge discovery.  The Rio Blanco 33 #2, the Rio Blanco 4-3 and the Rio Blanco 9 #1 drilling wells are shown.
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "forward-looking statement".
(Slide 17) How Have We Been Doing?
Graph shows F&D cost ($/Mcfe), reserve replacement (%) and PVI ($/$) after new management, a new E&P team and a new strategy were implemented in 1997.
Note:  All metrics calculated exclude reserve revisions.
(1)    PVI metrics calculated using pricing in effect at year-end (except for 2000 which was calculated at $3.00 per Mcf natural gas price).
(Slide 18) Outlook for 2004
Note: Per share estimates for 2004 assume 36.6 million weighted average diluted shares outstanding.
(1)   The average realized prices for our gas and oil production, after the effect of commodity hedge losses and basis differentials, were $4.20 per Mcf and $26.72 per Bbl, respectively, in 2003.
(2)   Net cash flow before changes in operating assets and liabilities and EBITDA are non-GAAP financial measures.  See explanation and reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures on pages 30 and 31.
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "forward-looking statement".
(Slide 19) Gas Hedges in Place Through 2006
This slide contains a bar chart detailing gas hedges in place by quarter for the years 2004, 2005 and 2006.  A summary of these outstanding gas hedges is as follows:
Note:  Southwestern has approximately 426,000 barrels of oil hedged at a fixed WTI price of $28.39 per barrel in 2004 and 240,000 barrels of oil hedged at a fixed WTI price of $30.05 per barrel in 2005.
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "forward-looking statement".
(Slide 20) The Road to V
+
(Slide 21) Appendix
(Slide 22) Financial & Operational Summary
This slide contains a table that summarizes the Company's financial and operational indicators.
(1)    Before the effects of unusual and extraordinary items.
(2)    Net cash flow before changes in operating assets and liabilities and EBITDA are non-GAAP financial measures.  See explanation and reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures on pages 30 and 31.
(3)    Excluding reserve revisions.
(Slide 23) Ranger Anticline
This slide contains a vertical cross-section of the Ranger Anticline area with shading to denote upper and lower borum.
(Slide 24) U.S. Gas Consumption and Sources
This slide displays U.S. gas production versus U.S. gas consumption from 1975 to the present. Net gas imports for the same period are also given.  U.S. gas production has been basically flat since 1994.
Source:  EIA
(Slide 25) U.S. Gas Production Decline Rate
This graph portrays U.S. natural gas production history.  The graph indicates a 29% 2004 decline rate.
Utilizes data supplied by IHS Energy; Copyright 1990 - 2004 IHS Energy
Chart prepared by and property of EOG Resources, Inc.; Copyright 2002 - 2004
(Slide 26) U.S. Electricity Consumption on the Rise
This line graph shows an increase in U.S. electricity consumption in billion kilowatt-hours per month from 1990 to 2004.
Source:  Edison Electric Institute
(Slide 27) NYMEX Gas Prices
This line graph represents NYMEX gas prices in $/Mcf from 2000 to 2004.
Source:  Bloomberg
(Slide 28) U.S. Gas Drilling
This line graph denotes the number of rigs drilling for gas through the period 1988 to 2004.
Source:  Baker Hughes
(Slide 29) West Texas Intermediate Oil Prices
This line graph shows the price of West Texas Intermediate oil in $/Bbl for the years 2000 to 2004.
Source:  Bloomberg
(Slide 30) Oil and Gas Price Comparison
This line graph compares the prices of Henry Hub natural gas and WTI crude oil in $/MMBtu and $/Bbl respectively for the period 1994 to 2004.
Source:  Bloomberg
(Slide 31)
Explanation and Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures: Cash Flow
Net cash provided by operating activities before changes in operating assets and liabilities is presented because of its acceptance as an indicator of an oil and gas exploration and production company's ability to internally fund exploration and development activities and to service or incur additional debt. The company has also included this information because changes in operating assets and liabilities relate to the timing of cash receipts and disbursements which the company may not control and may not relate to the period in which the operating activities occurred. Net cash provided by operating activities before changes in operating assets and liabilities should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for net cash provided by operating activities prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Forecasting changes in operating assets and liabilities would require unreasonable effort, would not be reliable and could be misleading.  Therefore, the reconciliation of the company's forecasted net cash provided by operating activities before changes in operating assets and liabilities has assumed no changes in assets and liabilities.  The first table below reconciles actual net cash provided by operating activities before changes in operating assets and liabilities with net cash provided by operating activities as derived from the company's financial information. 
(Slide 32)
Explanation and Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures: EBITDA
EBITDA is defined as net income plus interest, income tax expense, depreciation, depletion and amortization. Southwestern has included information concerning EBITDA because it is used by certain investors as a measure of the ability of a company to service or incur indebtedness and because it is a financial measure commonly used in the energy industry.  EBITDA should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for net income, net cash provided by operating activities or other income or cash flow data prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles or as a measure of the company's profitability or liquidity. EBITDA as defined above may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. Net income is a financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. The table below reconciles 2004 forecasted EBITDA with 2004 forecasted net income.
(1)    Amounts exclude unusual and extraordinary items.
(2)    Depreciation, depletion and amortization includes the amortization of restricted stock issued under the company's incentive compensation plan.
(3)Provision for income taxes for 2003 includes the tax benefit associated with the cumulative effect of adoption of accounting principle.
   
The table below reconciles EBITDA with net income assuming different NYMEX price scenarios and their corresponding estimated impact on the company's results for 2004, including current hedges in place, as of July 30, 2004:
 


