FILE:SWN/SWN-8K-20041130154311.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
       
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
       
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
       
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
       
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
The information in this Report, including the exhibit, is being furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 of Form 8-K and General Instruction B.2 thereunder.  Such information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
SECTION 7.  REGULATION FD.
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
 
Exhibits.  The following exhibit is being furnished as part of this Report.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
Slide Presentation dated November 30, 2004
The following slides were presented November 30, 2004 to investors and analysts at the Friedman, Billings, Ramsey & Co. 11th Annual Investor Conference at the Grand Hyatt Hotel in New York, New York.
(Cover)
Southwestern Energy Company
November 2004 Update
This left side of this slide contains a picture of a snow-capped volcano. The caption above reads "The Power Within."  The Company's formula is located in the bottom right corner.  The top right corner of this slide contains a box with a picture of an oil derrick and "75 years SWN 1929 - 2004."
(Slide 1) Southwestern Energy Company (NYSE: SWN)
General Information
Southwestern Energy Company is an independent energy company primarily focused on the exploration for and production of natural gas. Our strategy is to add at least $1.30 in discounted value for every dollar invested in a focused exploration and production program in the Arkoma and Permian Basins, East Texas and the onshore Gulf Coast.
Market Data as of November 22, 2004
Investor Contacts
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Greg D. Kerley
 
Manager, Investor Relations
Brad D. Sylvester, CFA
(Slide 2)
Forward-Looking Statements
All statements, other than historical financial information, may be deemed to be forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Although the company believes the expectations expressed in such forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, such statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual results or developments may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements herein include, but are not limited to, the timing and extent of changes in commodity prices for gas and oil, the extent to which the Fayetteville Shale play can replicate the results of other productive shale gas plays, the potential for significant variability in reservoir characteristics of the Fayetteville Shale over such a large acreage position, the timing and extent of the company's success in discovering, developing, producing and estimating reserves, property acquisition or divestiture activities, the effects of weather and regulation on the company's gas distribution segment, increased competition, the impact of federal, state and local government regulation, the financial impact of accounting regulations and critical accounting policies, changing market conditions and prices (including regional basis differentials), the comparative cost of alternative fuels, conditions in capital markets and changes in interest rates, availability of oil field personnel, services, drilling rigs and other equipment, and any other factors listed in the reports filed by the company with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). For additional information with respect to certain of these and other factors, see reports filed by the company with the SEC. The company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
(Slide 3) About Southwestern
(Slide 4) Current Highlights
2003
First Nine Months 2004
(1)
 
EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure.  See explanation and reconciliation of EBITDA on page 33.
(Slide 5) Proven Track Record
This slide contains bar charts for the periods ended December 31.
Note: Reserve data excludes reserve revisions.
(1)  EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure. See explanation and reconciliation of EBITDA on page 34.
 
(Slide 6) E&P Focused
This slide contains a map of Arkansas, Louisiana, Oklahoma, Texas and New Mexico with shadings to denote the Arkoma and Permian Basins, the Gulf Coast and the East Texas region. Lines trace gas distribution pipelines and the Ozark Pipeline.
E&P Segment
Arkoma
East Texas (Overton)
Gulf Coast
Permian
Utility Segment
(Slide 7) Capital Investments
This slide contains a bar chart of Company capital investments, summarized as follows:
This slide also contains a pie chart of Company's planned 2004 capital investments by area of operation, summarized as follows:
 
(1) Net of $13.5 million reimbursement from Overton Field partnership.
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "forward-looking statement".
(Slide 8)
East Texas - Overton Field
This slide contains a map of Smith County, Texas where the Overton Field is located.  Existing wells at year-end 2002, 2003 and 2004 development well locations are denoted.  It is stated that the Overton Field contains 17,900 acres and the South Overton Farm-in Acreage contains 6,500 acres.
Overton Field reserve potential:
 
Overton Field 2001-2003 Average Results:
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "forward-looking statement".
(Slide 9) Overton Field Gross Production
The graph contained in this slide displays the Overton Field gross production rate (MMcfe/d) from the year 2000 to December 2004 and the potential gross production rate for 2004 under both an accelerated drilling program at time of equity offering and under an eighteen well per year program.
Overton Field Net Production:
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "forward-looking statement".
(Slide 10) Overton Field - Improved Drilling Results
This slide of drilling days versus depth portrays the improved drilling rate in the Overton Field since its purchase from Fina in 2001.  Fina's average drilling rate was 55 days.  Upon the Field's purchase in 2001 we decreased that rate to 35 days.  It was further decreased to 27 days in 2002, 23 days in 2003 and 19 days through September 30, 2004.
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "forward-looking statement".
(Slide 11)
Arkoma Basin
 
This slide contains a map of Arkansas and Oklahoma with shading to denote the Arkoma Basin. The Ranger Anticline and the area known as the Fairway are further noted. A portion of the Arkoma Unconventional play (1) is also noted.
Arkoma Basin 2001-2003 Avg Results:
Ranger Anticline (inception thru 9/30/04):
 
(1) For illustrative purposes only.  Shaded area does not delineate actual play area.
 
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "forward-looking statement".
(Slide 12) Ranger Anticline
This slide contains a map of the Ranger Anticline prospect with the Company's acreage designated with shading.  Also shown are SWN's producing wells at 9/30/04 and the remaining 2004 proposed wells.
Ranger Anticline (inception thru 9/30/04):
 
Ranger Anticline Potential:
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "forward-looking statement".
(Slide 13)
Arkoma Unconventional - Fayetteville Shale Play
 
This slide contains a map of Oklahoma, Arkansas, and portions of Louisiana and Texas.  Shading denotes the Fayetteville and Caney Shales in the Arkoma Basin, the Barnett Shale in the Fort Worth Basin and the Frontal Belt area. The Wedington Incongruity is also noted.
 
* Mississippian-age shale, geological equivalent of the Caney Shale in Oklahoma and the Barnett Shale in north Texas.
 
* The shale appears to be laterally extensive, ranging in thickness from 50 to 325 feet, and ranging in depths from 1,500 to 6,500 feet.
 
* Current data from the Fayetteville Shale relative to total organic content, thermal maturity and total gas content compares favorably with other productive shale gas plays, including the Barnett.
 
(Slide 14)
Fayetteville Shale Play - - Current Status
 
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "forward-looking statement".
(Slide 15) 2004 Exploration
This slide contains a map of Arkansas, Louisiana, Oklahoma, Texas and New Mexico with shading to denote areas of Company operations.  An exploded map of a portion of New Mexico details the River Ridge discovery.  The Rio Blanco 9 #1 producing well is shown.
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "forward-looking statement".
(Slide 16) How Have We Been Doing?
Graph shows F&D cost ($/Mcfe), reserve replacement (%) and PVI ($/$) after new management, a new E&P team and a new strategy were implemented in 1997.
Note:  All metrics calculated exclude reserve revisions.
(1)    PVI metrics calculated using pricing in effect at year-end (except for 2000 which was calculated at $3.00 per Mcf natural gas price).
(Slide 17) Outlook for 2004
Note: Per share estimates for 2004 assume 36.6 million weighted average diluted shares outstanding.
(1)   The average realized prices for our gas and oil production, after the effect of commodity hedge losses and basis differentials, were $4.20 per Mcf and $26.72 per Bbl, respectively, in 2003.
(2)   Net Cash Flow is net cash flow before changes in operating assets and liabilities.  Net cash flow and EBITDA are non-GAAP financial measures.  See explanation and reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures on pages 32 and 33.
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "forward-looking statement".
(Slide 18) Gas Hedges in Place Through 2006
This slide contains a bar chart detailing gas hedges in place by quarter for the years 2004, 2005 and 2006.  A summary of these outstanding gas hedges is as follows:
Note:  Southwestern has approximately 426,000 barrels of oil hedged at a fixed WTI price of $28.39 per barrel in 2004,  360,000 barrels of oil hedged at a price of $33.17 per barrel in 2005 and 120,000 barrels of oil hedged at a fixed WTI price of $37.30 per barrel in 2006.
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "forward-looking statement".
(Slide 19) The Road to V
+
(Slide 20) Appendix
(Slide 21) Financial & Operational Summary
This slide contains a table that summarizes the Company's financial and operational indicators.
 
(1)    Before the effects of unusual and extraordinary items.
(2)    Net cash flow is net cash flow before changes in operating assets and liabilities.  Net cash flow and EBITDA are non-GAAP financial measures.  See explanation and reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures on pages 32 and 33.
(3)    Excluding reserve revisions.
 
(Slide 22)
SWN is One of the Lowest Cost Operators
This slide contains a bar graph that compares SWN to its competitors in terms of lifting cost per Mcfe of production (3 year average).
This slide also contains a bar graph comparing SWN to its competitors in terms of drillbit F&D cost per Mcfe (3 year average).
 
Source:  John S. Herold Database
Note:  All data as of December 31, 2001, 2002, and 2003.
(Slide 23) Ranger Anticline
This slide contains a vertical cross-section of the Ranger Anticline area with shading to denote upper and lower borum.
(Slide 24) Focused on Adding Value
Note:  Our ability to achieve our target PVI results are dependent upon the current and future market prices for natural gas and crude oil, costs associated with producing natural gas and crude oil and our ability to add reserves at an acceptable cost.
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "forward-looking statement".
(Slide 25)
U.S. Gas Consumption and Sources
This slide displays U.S. gas production versus U.S. gas consumption from 1975 to the present. Net gas imports for the same period are also given.  U.S. gas production has been basically flat since 1994.
Source:  EIA
(Slide 26) U.S. Gas Production Decline Rate
This graph portrays U.S. natural gas production history.  The graph indicates a 30% 2005 decline rate.
Utilizes data supplied by IHS Energy; Copyright 1990 - 2004 IHS Energy
Chart prepared by and property of EOG Resources, Inc.; Copyright 2002 - 2004
(Slide 27) U.S. Electricity Consumption on the Rise
This line graph shows an increase in U.S. electricity consumption in billion kilowatt-hours per month from 1990 to 2004.
Source:  Edison Electric Institute
(Slide 28) NYMEX Gas Prices
This line graph represents NYMEX gas prices in $/Mcf from 2000 to 2004.
Source:  Bloomberg
(Slide 29) U.S. Gas Drilling
This line graph denotes the number of rigs drilling for gas through the period 1988 to 2004.
Source:  Baker Hughes
(Slide 30) West Texas Intermediate Oil Prices
This line graph shows the price of West Texas Intermediate oil in $/Bbl for the years 2000 to 2004.
Source:  Bloomberg
(Slide 31) Oil and Gas Price Comparison
This line graph compares the prices of Henry Hub natural gas and WTI crude oil in $/MMBtu and $/Bbl respectively for the period 1994 to 2004.
Source:  Bloomberg
(Slide 32)
Explanation and Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures: Net Cash Flow
Net cash provided by operating activities before changes in operating assets and liabilities is presented because of its acceptance as an indicator of an oil and gas exploration and production company's ability to internally fund exploration and development activities and to service or incur additional debt. The company has also included this information because changes in operating assets and liabilities relate to the timing of cash receipts and disbursements which the company may not control and may not relate to the period in which the operating activities occurred. Net cash provided by operating activities before changes in operating assets and liabilities should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for net cash provided by operating activities prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Forecasting changes in operating assets and liabilities would require unreasonable effort, would not be reliable and could be misleading.  Therefore, the reconciliation of the company's forecasted net cash provided by operating activities before changes in operating assets and liabilities has assumed no changes in assets and liabilities.  The first table below reconciles actual net cash provided by operating activities before changes in operating assets and liabilities with net cash provided by operating activities as derived from the company's financial information. 
(Slide 33)
Explanation and Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures: EBITDA
EBITDA is defined as net income plus interest, income tax expense, depreciation, depletion and amortization. Southwestern has included information concerning EBITDA because it is used by certain investors as a measure of the ability of a company to service or incur indebtedness and because it is a financial measure commonly used in the energy industry.  EBITDA should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for net income, net cash provided by operating activities or other income or cash flow data prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles or as a measure of the company's profitability or liquidity. EBITDA as defined above may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. Net income is a financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. The table below reconciles 2004 forecasted EBITDA with 2004 forecasted net income.
 
(1)    2000 amounts exclude unusual items of $109.3 million for the Hales judgment and $2.0 million for other litigation.
(2)    Depreciation, depletion and amortization includes the amortization of restricted stock issued under the company's incentive compensation plan.
(3)Provision for income taxes for 2003 includes the tax benefit associated with the cumulative effect of adoption of accounting principle.
   
The table below reconciles EBITDA with net income assuming different NYMEX price scenarios and their corresponding estimated impact on the company's results for 2004, including current hedges in place, as of September 21, 2004:
 


