FILE:SWN/SWN-8K-20040922133408.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
       
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
       
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
       
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
       
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
EXPLANATORY NOTE
 
The information in this Report, including the exhibit, is being furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 of Form 8-K and General Instruction B.2 thereunder.  Such information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
SECTION 7.  REGULATION FD.
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
 
Exhibits.  The following exhibit is being furnished as part of this Report.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
Slide Presentation dated September 22, 2004
The following slides were presented September 22, 2004 to investors and analysts at the 2004 John S. Herold Pacesetters Energy Conference.
(Slide 1)
Southwestern Energy Company
Presentation to 2004 John S. Herold Pacesetters Energy Conference, September 22, 2004.
This left side of this slide contains a picture of a snow-capped volcano. The caption above reads "The Power Within."  The Company's formula:
is located in the bottom right corner.  The top right corner of this slide contains a box with a picture of an oil derrick and "75 years SWN 1929 - 2004."
(Slide 2) Forward-Looking Statements
All statements, other than historical financial information, may be deemed to be forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Although the company believes the expectations expressed in such forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, such statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual results or developments may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements herein include, but are not limited to, the timing and extent of changes in commodity prices for gas and oil, the timing and extent of the company's success in discovering, developing, producing and estimating reserves, property acquisition or divestiture activities that may occur, the effects of weather and regulation on the company's gas distribution segment, increased competition, the impact of federal, state and local government regulation, the financial impact of accounting regulations and critical accounting policies, changing market conditions and prices, the comparative cost of alternative fuels, conditions in capital markets and changes in interest rates, availability of oil field personnel, services, drilling rigs and other equipment, the extent to which the Fayetteville Shale play can replicate the results of other productive shale gas plays, the potential for significant variability in reservoir characteristics of the Fayetteville Shale over such a large acreage position, as well as various other factors beyond the company's control, and any other factors listed in the reports the company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  A discussion of these and other factors affecting the company's performance is included in the company's periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003.  Unless otherwise required by applicable securities laws, the company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
(Slide 3) Proved Reserves
The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) requires all publicly-traded companies to report their "Proved Reserves" as defined by Regulation S-X, Rule 4-10:
"Proved oil and gas reserves are the quantities of crude oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids which geological and engineering data demonstrate with to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs
estimated
reasonable certainty
under existing economic and operating conditions"
(Slide 4) Different Types of Reserves
The Society of Petroleum Engineers provides guidelines to assist oil & gas companies interpret different types of reserves:
(Slide 5) Different Types of Reserves
Photograph:    Fisherman standing inside a boat with a large fish laying on the bow.
Caption:    "A 'fish story' might help"
(Slide 6) Potential Reserves
* Potential - Future production that is extremely uncertain
Photograph:    A group of people reading a map near the shore of a lake.
Caption:    "You have never seen the lake, but you believe it does exist.  You also believe that if you can find the lake, there will be fish in it.  You believe this will justify the purchase of a boat, trailer, waders, fishing gear, bait and fishing license, none of which you now own."
(Slide 7) Possible Reserves
* Possible - Future production that has a greater than 10% chance of being recovered
Photograph:    Three smiling men carrying fishing gear and an ice chest.
Caption:    "There is water in the lake.  Someone may have told you there are fish in the lake.  You have your boat on the trailer but you may go play golf instead."
 
(Slide 8)
Probable Reserves
 
* Probable - Future production that has a greater than 50% chance of being recovered
Photograph:    A boy and a girl dressed for fishing.
Caption:    "There are fish in the lake.  You may have caught some yesterday.  You may even be able to see them, but you have not caught any today."
(Slide 9) Proved Undeveloped Reserves
* Proved Undeveloped - Reasonably certain future production from future wells that have not yet been drilled.
Photograph:    A woman reeling in a fish and a man with a net.
Caption:    "The fish is in the water, on your hook, by the boat and you are ready to net him.  You can tell how big he looks (fish always look bigger in the water)."
 
(Slide 10)
Proved Developed Non-Producing
 
* Proved Developed Non-Producing - Reasonably certain future production from reservoirs in wells that have been drilled but aren't currently producing.
Photograph:    A man pulling a fish into a boat.
Caption:    "The fish is almost in the boat.  You can clearly see him and you are almost certain to have dinner."
 
(Slide 11)
Proved Developed Producing
 
* Proved Developed Producing - Reasonably certain future production from wells that are currently producing
Photograph:    Cooked fish on a plate with vegetables.
Caption:    "You are eating the fish!"
 
(Slide 12)
How Does One Determine Reserves - Measurement?
 
(Slide 13) Decline Curve Analysis
The graph contained in this slide displays a hypothetical scenario of actual production and forecasted production "Reserves"  rates (MMcfpd) over time in days.
(Slide 14) Decline Curve Analysis
The graph contained in this slide displays a hypothetical scenario of actual production and forecasted production "Reserves"  rates (MMcfpd) over time in days under different scenarios.
(Slide 15) Conclusions
(Slide 16) About Southwestern's Reserves
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "forward-looking statement".
(Slide 17) Arkoma Basin - Fayetteville Shale Play
This slide contains a map of Arkansas and Oklahoma with shading to denote the Arkoma Basin. The area known as the Fairway is noted.  The Desoto Unconventional play area is also designated.
(1)
(1) For illustrative purposes only.  Shaded area does not delineate actual play area.
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "forward-looking statement".
(Slide 18) Desoto Project - Mississippian Shale Deposition
This slide contains a map of Oklahoma, Arkansas, and portions of Louisiana and Texas.  Shading denotes the Fayetteville and Caney Shales in the Arkoma Basin, the Barnett Shale in the Fort Worth Basin and the Frontal Belt area.
* The Fayetteville Shale is a Mississippian-age shale that is the geologic equivalent of the Caney Shale in Oklahoma and the Barnett Shale in north Texas.
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "forward-looking statement".
(Slide 19) Desoto Project - Mississippian Shale Equivalents
This slide contains a geological comparison of the Barnett, Caney and Fayetteville Shales.
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "forward-looking statement".
(Slide 20) Desoto Project - Fayetteville Shale
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "forward-looking statement".


