FILE:SWN/SWN-8K-20060510131525.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
       
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
       
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
       
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
       
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Explanatory Note
The information in this report, including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
SECTION 7.  REGULATION FD.
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On May 10, 2006, Harold M. Korell, President and Chief Executive Officer of Southwestern Energy Company (the "Company") will be making a presentation to the Conway Development Corporation announcing the results of an economic impact study relating to the Fayetteville Shale play.  A copy of the presentation is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
 
All statements in the presentation, other than historical financial information, may be deemed to be forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Although the Company believes the expectations expressed in such forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, such statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual results or developments may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. The Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
Exhibits.  The following exhibit is being furnished as part of this Report.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
Slide Presentation dated May 10, 2006
The following slides will be presented by Harold M. Korell, President and Chief Executive Officer of Southwestern Energy Company to the Conway Development Corporation in Conway, AR.
(Cover)
"People, Jobs and the World We Live In"
Centered on the slide are photographs of well personnel, a natural gas wellhead, and a forest.
Presentation to
Conway Development Corporation
Harold M. Korell
President, CEO and Chairman of the Board
Southwestern Energy Company
May 10, 2006
 
(Slide 1) Forward-Looking Statements
All statements, other than historical financial information, may be deemed to be forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements that address activities, outcomes and other matters that should or may occur in the future, including, without limitation, statements regarding the financial position, business strategy, production and reserve growth and other plans and objectives for the company's future operations, are forward-looking statements. Although the company believes the expectations expressed in such forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, such statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual results or developments may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. The company has no obligation and makes no undertaking to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements. You shoul d not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. They are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may affect the company's operations, markets, products, services and prices and cause its actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. In addition to any assumptions and other factors referred to specifically in connection with forward-looking statements, risks, uncertainties and factors that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those indicated in any forward-looking statement include, but are not limited to: the timing and extent of changes in commodity prices for natural gas and oil; the timing and extent of the company's success in discovering, developing, producing and estimating reserves; the extent to which the Fayetteville Shale play can replicate the results of other productive shale ga s plays; the potential for significant variability in reservoir characteristics of the Fayetteville Shale over such a large acreage position; the extent of the company's success in drilling and completing horizontal wells; the company's ability to determine the most effective and economic fracture stimulation for the Fayetteville Shale formation; the company's lack of experience owning and operating drilling rigs; the company's ability to fund its planned capital expenditures; future property acquisition or divestiture activities; the effects of weather and regulation on the company's gas distribution segment; increased competition; the impact of federal, state and local government regulation; the financial impact of accounting regulations and critical accounting policies; changing market conditions and prices (including regional basis differentials); the comparative cost of alternative fuels; conditions in capital markets and changes in interest rates; the availability of oil field personnel, services, drilling rigs and other equipment; and any other factors listed in the reports we have filed and may file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). For additional information with respect to certain of these and other factors, see reports filed by the company with the SEC. The company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
The Securities and Exchange Commission has generally permitted oil and gas companies, in their filings with the SEC, to disclose only proved reserves that a company has demonstrated by actual production or conclusive formation tests to be economically and legally producible under existing economic and operating conditions. We use the terms "estimated ultimate recovery," "EUR," "probable," "possible," and "non-proven" reserves, reserve "potential" or "upside" or other descriptions of volumes of reserves potentially recoverable through additional drilling or recovery techniques that the SEC's guidelines may prohibit us from including in filings with the SEC. These estimates are by their nature more speculative than estimates of proved reserves and accordingly are subject to substantially greater risk of being actually realized by the company.
(Slide 2) U.S. Gas Consumption and Production
This slide displays U.S. gas production versus U.S. gas consumption from 1975 to the present. Net imports for the same period are also given.  U.S. gas production has been basically flat since 1994.
Source:  EIA
(Slide 3) Demand Driver
U.S. Electricity Consumption on the Rise
*
This line graph shows an increase in U.S. electricity consumption in billion kilowatt-hours per month from 1990 to 2006.
Source:  Edison Electric Institute
(Slide 4) U.S. Rigs Operating for Natural Gas
This line graph denotes the correlation between the number of rigs drilling for gas and the NYMEX price of gas ($/Mcf) from 1990 to 2006.
Source:  Baker Hughes, Bloomberg
(Slide 5) U.S. Natural Gas Production Decline Rate
This graph portrays U.S. natural gas production history.  The graph indicates a 32% 2006E decline rate.
Utilizes data supplied by IHS Energy; Copyright IHS Energy
Chart prepared by and Property of EOG Resources, Inc.; Copyright 2006
(Slide 6) Where Will Our Future Gas Supply Come From?
This graph projects the natural gas supply contributions of unconventional, conventional, and associated exploration for the Non-Arctic U.S. and Canada.  The graph shows unconventional exploration gradually increasing, conventional exploration gradually decreasing, and associated exploration remaining relatively flat through the years 2000 to 2025.
Source: 2003 National Petroleum Council Study
(Slide 7)
Southwestern Energy Company
This slide contains a map of Arkansas, Louisiana, Oklahoma, Texas and New Mexico with shadings to denote the Arkoma and Permian Basins, the Gulf Coast and the East Texas regions. Lines trace gas distribution pipelines.
Exploration & Production Segment
 
Arkoma
East Texas
Utility Segment
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "forward-looking statement".
(Slide 8) Fayetteville Shale Play
This slide contains a map of Oklahoma, Arkansas, and portions of Louisiana and Texas.  Shading denotes the Fayetteville Shale in the Arkoma Basin, the Barnett Shale in the Fort Worth Basin and the Frontal Belt area.
 
* Mississippian-age shale, geological equivalent of the Barnett Shale in north Texas.
 
* The shale appears to be laterally extensive across several counties in Arkansas.
 
* SWN currently holds approximately 880,000 net acres in the Fayetteville Shale play area (equivalent to over 1,300 square miles).
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "forward-looking statement".
(Slide 9) What is Shale?
 
The right-hand side of this slide contains a photograph of a person inspecting a shale-filled hillside.
 
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "forward-looking statement".
 
(Slide 10)
Arkansas Geological Commission Study
 
This slide contains a map of northern Arkansas denoting SWN's focus area, SWN's existing pilots, and an outline of the Arkansas Geological Commission's study area.
 
 
Source: Arkansas Geological Commission Study, "Organic Geochemistry and Thermal Maturation Analysis with the Fayetteville Shale Study Area - Eastern Arkoma Basin and Mississippi Embayment Regions, Arkansas."
 
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "forward-looking statement".
(Slide 11) SWN Fayetteville Shale Focus Area
This slide contains a map of the SWN Fayetteville Shale focus area in Arkansas.  The focus area and existing pilot wells are indicated.  The Scotland Field, Gravel Hill Field, Griffin Mountain Field, Cove Creek Field, New Quitman Field, and three pilot areas new in 2006 are also designated.
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "forward-looking statement".
(Slide 12)
Progress to Date
 
* A number of E&P companies have become active in the Fayetteville Shale play, including Chesapeake, XTO Energy, and Shell.
 
* Additionally, a number of oilfield service companies, such as Schlumberger, Ltd., have and will be entering the region.
 
* Southwestern has made a $200,000 grant to UA - Morrilton to sponsor a new petro-technical program.
 
* Southwestern has sponsored a research project conducted by the Center for Business and Economic Research (CBER) in the Sam M. Walton College of Business at the University of Arkansas to project the economic impact of the Fayetteville Shale play to the region and the state.
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "forward-looking statement".
(Slide 13) Meeting The Challenge - People
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "forward-looking statement".
(Slide 14) Meeting The Challenge
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "forward-looking statement".
(Slide 15) Fayetteville Shale Impact on SWN
This slide contains a bar graph displaying the amount of capital investments SWN has made in the Fayetteville Shale:
The slide also contains a bar graph showing the number of new Arkansas employees:
(1)    Capital investment data includes capital investments in drilling rigs and midstream operations.
(2)    Excludes employees of the company's gas distribution business.
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "forward-looking statement".
(Slide 16) Southwestern Is Part of the Solution
(1)    Net cash flow is net cash flow before changes in operating assets and liabilities and is a non-GAAP financial measure.  2000 excludes unusual and extraordinary items.
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "forward-looking statement".
(Slide 17) Fayetteville Shale Impact on Arkansas
 
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "forward-looking statement".


