FILE:SWN/SWN-8K-20070110090039.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
       
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
       
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
       
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
       
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Explanatory Note
The information in this report, including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
SECTION 7.  REGULATION FD.
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On January 10, 2007, Greg D. Kerley,  Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Southwestern Energy Company (the "Company"), and Richard F. Lane, Executive Vice President and President of Southwestern Energy Production Company and SEECO, Inc., will make a presentation at the Energize 2007: New Year, New Realities Conference sponsored by Pritchard Capital Partners, LLC.  The presentation will include updated operating information relating to the Fayetteville Shale play and updated guidance regarding the Company's projected net income, operating income, earnings per share, net cash provided by operating activities before changes in operating assets and liabilities ("Net Cash Flow") and earnings before income taxes, depreciation, depletion and amortization ("EBITDA") for the fiscal year 2006 and outlook for 2007.  Net Cash Flow and EBITDA are non-GAAP measures that are reconciled on pages 32 and 33 of the presentation. A copy of the presentation is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
 
All statements in the presentation, other than historical financial information, may be deemed to be forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Although the Company believes the expectations expressed in such forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, such statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual results or developments may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. The Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
Exhibits.  The following exhibit is being furnished as part of this Report.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
Slide Presentation dated January 11, 2007
The following slides will be presented by Greg D. Kerley, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Southwestern Energy Company, and Richard F. Lane, Executive Vice President and President of Southwestern Energy Production Company and SEECO, Inc., at the Energize 2007: New Year, New Realities Conference sponsored by Pritchard Capital Partners, LLC.
(Cover)
Southwestern Energy Company
Presentation at Energize 2007: New Year, New Realities
 
January 11, 2007
 
NYSE: SWN
The left side of this slide contains a picture of a Monopoly board game.  The caption above reads "Well Positioned."  The Company's formula is located in the bottom-left corner.  The top-right corner of this slide contains the company logo.
 2006 Hasbro
(Slide 1) Southwestern Energy Company (NYSE: SWN)
General Information
Southwestern Energy Company is an integrated natural gas company whose wholly-owned subsidiaries are engaged in oil and gas exploration and production, natural gas gathering, transmission and marketing, and natural gas distribution.
Market Data as of January 5, 2007
Investor Contacts
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Greg D. Kerley
 
Manager, Investor Relations
Brad D. Sylvester, CFA
(Slide 2)
Forward-Looking Statements
All statements, other than historical financial information, may be deemed to be forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements that address activities, outcomes and other matters that should or may occur in the future, including, without limitation, statements regarding the financial position, business strategy, production and reserve growth and other plans and objectives for the company's future operations, are forward-looking statements. Although the company believes the expectations expressed in such forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, such statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual results or developments may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. The company has no obligation and makes no undertaking to publicly u pdate or revise any forward-looking statements. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. They are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may affect the company's operations, markets, products, services and prices and cause its actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. In addition to any assumptions and other factors referred to specifically in connection with forward-looking statements, risks, uncertainties and factors that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those indicated in any forward-looking statement include, but are not limited to: the availability of oil field personnel, services, drilling rigs and other equipment, including pressure pumping equipment and crews in the Arkoma Basin; the timing and extent of changes in commodity prices for natural gas and oil; the co mpany's ability to determine the most effective and economic fracture stimulation for the Fayetteville Shale formation; the timing and extent of the company's success in discovering, developing, producing and estimating reserves; the extent to which the Fayetteville Shale play can replicate the results of other productive shale gas plays; the potential for significant variability in reservoir characteristics of the Fayetteville Shale over such a large acreage position; the extent of the company's success in drilling and completing horizontal wells; the company's relative lack of experience owning and operating drilling rigs; the company's ability to fund its planned capital expenditures; future property acquisition or divestiture activities; the effects of weather and regulation on the company's gas distribution segment; increased competition; the impact of federal, state and local government regulation; the financial impact of accounting regulations and critical accounting poli cies; changing market conditions and prices (including regional basis differentials); the comparative cost of alternative fuels; conditions in capital markets and changes in interest rates; and any other factors listed in the reports we have filed and may file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). For additional information with respect to certain of these and other factors, see reports filed by the company with the SEC. The company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
The Securities and Exchange Commission has generally permitted oil and gas companies, in their filings with the SEC, to disclose only proved reserves that a company has demonstrated by actual production or conclusive formation tests to be economically and legally producible under existing economic and operating conditions. We use the terms "estimated ultimate recovery," "EUR," "probable," "possible," and "non-proven" reserves, reserve "potential" or "upside" or other descriptions of volumes of reserves potentially recoverable through additional drilling or recovery techniques that the SEC's guidelines may prohibit us from including in filings with the SEC. These estimates are by their nature more speculative than estimates of proved reserves and accordingly are subject to substantially greater risk of being actually realized by the company.
 
(Slide 3) About Southwestern
 
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "forward-looking statement".
(Slide 4) Recent Developments
 
 
Notes:    Guidance updated as of December 15, 2006. See note on commodity price deck on page 16. Discretionary cash flow is net cash flow before changes in operating assets and liabilities. Discretionary cash flow is a non-GAAP financial measure (see explanation and reconciliation on page 32).
 
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "forward-looking statement".
(Slide 5) Proven Track Record
This slide contains bar charts for the periods ended December 31.
Note: Reserve data excludes reserve revisions and capital investments in drilling rigs.
(1)  EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure. See explanation and reconciliation of EBITDA on page 33.
 
 
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "forward-looking statement".
(Slide 6) About the Company
This slide contains a map of Arkansas, Louisiana, Oklahoma, Texas and New Mexico with shadings to denote the Arkoma and Permian Basins, the Gulf Coast and the East Texas regions. Lines trace gas distribution pipelines.
Exploration and Production Segment
 
Arkoma
 
East Texas
 
Gulf Coast
 
Permian
Gas Distribution Segment
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "forward-looking statement".
(Slide 7) Capital Expenditures
This slide contains a bar chart of Company capital investments, summarized as follows:
This slide also contains a pie chart of Company's preliminary planned 2007 capital expenditures by area of operation, summarized as follows:
 
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "forward-looking statement".
(Slide 8)
East Texas
This slide contains a map of several counties in East Texas.  The Company's Overton and Angelina River Trend acreage positions are highlighted.  Various salt domes and the East Texas Salt Basin are also denoted on the map.  The cities of Tyler and Lufkin, Texas are displayed as reference points.
 
 
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "forward-looking statement".
(Slide 9)
Arkoma Basin - Conventional
 
This slide contains a map of Arkansas and Oklahoma with shading to denote the Arkoma Basin. The Ranger Anticline, the Midway Exploration and the area known as the Fairway are further noted. 
 
Arkoma Basin 2003-2005 Avg Results:
(1)
Ranger Anticline (inception thru 12/31/05):
(1)
 
(1) Including reserve revisions.
 
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "forward-looking statement".
(Slide 10) Ranger Anticline
This slide contains a map of the Ranger Anticline prospect with the Company's exploratory and held by production acreage designated with shading.  Also shown are SWN's producing wells at 9/30/06, 2006 remaining wells and 2007 proposed wells. A box denotes the successful extension wells.
Ranger Anticline (inception thru 12/31/05):
(1)
 
 
(1) Including reserve revisions.
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "forward-looking statement".
(Slide 11)
Fayetteville Shale Play
 
This slide contains a map of Oklahoma, Arkansas, and portions of Louisiana and Texas.  Shading denotes the Fayetteville Shale in the Arkoma Basin, the Barnett Shale in the Fort Worth Basin and the Frontal Belt area. The Wedington Incongruity is also denoted.
 
* Mississippian-age shale, geological equivalent of the Barnett Shale in north Texas.
 
* Within the SWN play area, the shale appears to be laterally extensive across several counties in Arkansas, ranging in thickness from 50 to 550 feet and depths from 1,500 to 6,500 feet.
 
* SWN currently holds approximately 890,000 net acres in the Fayetteville Shale play area (equivalent to approximately 1,400 square miles).
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "forward-looking statement".
(Slide 12) Fayetteville Shale Focus Area
This slide contains a map of the Fayetteville Shale Focus Area in Arkansas.  Existing pilot areas are indicated.  The Scotland Field, Gravel Hill Field, Griffin Mountain Field, Cove Creek Field, New Quitman Field, Chattanooga Test and Ranger Anticline are also designated.  Additionally, the Carter #2-35H well (Moorefield) with an IP of 1.2 MMcf/d is indicated on the slide.
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "forward-looking statement".
(Slide 13) Fayetteville Shale - Gross Production
This line graph shows gross production in MMcf/d for the Fayetteville Shale from January 2006 to December 31, 2006. Gross production of approximately 100 MMcf/d as of December 31st.
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "forward-looking statement".
(Slide 14) Fayetteville Shale - Horizontal Well Performance
The graph contained in this slide provides average daily production data through December 11, 2006, for the company's horizontal wells drilled on acreage outside of that held by conventional production.  The production data is compared to 1.3 Bcf and 1.5 Bcf typecurves from the company's reservoir simulation shale gas model.  This graph also displays two composite curves, one showing the SW/XL normalized production from the Company's horizontal wells and another showing the SW/XL production excluding mechanical issues.
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "forward-looking statement".
(Slide 15) How Have We Been Doing?
Graph shows F&D cost ($/Mcfe), reserve replacement (%) and PVI ($/$) after new management, a new E&P team and a new strategy were implemented in 1997.
Note:  All metrics calculated exclude reserve revisions and capital investments in drilling rigs.
(1)    PVI metrics calculated using pricing in effect at year-end (except for 2000 which was calculated at $3.00 per Mcf natural gas price).
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "forward-looking statement".
(Slide 16) Outlook for 2007
 
Note:   Guidance updated as of December 15, 2006.  2006 oil and gas prices include actual last-day NYMEX closing prices through November 2006 and assumes that the price deck above
is held flat through the remainder of 2006.
 
(1)        Net cash flow is net cash flow before changes in operating assets and liabilities.  Net cash flow and EBITDA are non-GAAP financial measures.  See explanation and reconciliation
of non-GAAP financial measures on pages 32 and 33.
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "forward-looking statement".
(Slide 17) The Road to V
+
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "forward-looking statement".
(Slide 18) Appendix
(Slide 19) Financial & Operational Summary
This slide contains a table that summarizes the Company's financial and operational indicators.
 
(1)    Net cash flow is net cash flow before changes in operating assets and liabilities.  Net cash flow and EBITDA are non-GAAP financial measures.  See explanation and reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures on pages 32 and 33.
(2)    Diluted earnings per share and diluted cash flow per share have been adjusted for a 2-for-1 stock split effected in November 2005.
(3)    Excluding reserve revisions and capital investments in drilling rigs.
(Slide 20) Gas Hedges in Place Through 2008
This slide contains a bar chart detailing gas hedges in place by quarter for year 2006, year 2007 and year 2008.  A summary of these outstanding gas hedges is as follows:
Note:  Southwestern has approximately 120,000 barrels of oil hedged at a fixed WTI price of $37.30 per barrel in 2006.
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "forward-looking statement".
 
(Slide 21)
SWN is One of the Lowest Cost Operators
This slide contains a bar graph that compares SWN to its competitors in terms of lifting cost per Mcfe of production (3 year average).
This slide also contains a bar graph comparing SWN to its competitors in terms of drillbit F&D cost per Mcfe (3 year average).
 
Source:  John S. Herold Database
Note:  All data as of December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005.
 
(Slide 22)
East Texas - Overton Field
This slide contains a map of Smith County, Texas, where the Overton Field is located.  Existing wells at year-end 2005 and development well locations for 2006 and 2007 are denoted.  It is stated that the Overton Field contains 17,600 acres and the South Overton Farm-in Acreage contains 6,800 acres.
 
 
Overton Field 2003-2005 Avg Results:
(1)
Including reserve revisions.
(1)
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "forward-looking statement".
 
(Slide 23) Overton Field Gross Production
The graph contained on this slide displays the Overton Field gross production rate (MMcfe/d) from June 2000 to September 2006. Additionally, in early 2003, the graph indicates the projected production profile from an accelerated drilling program as a result of our 2003 equity offering. In 2004, the graph indicates addition of a fifth rig and curtailment issues.
Overton Net Production:
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "forward-looking statement".
(Slide 24) Overton Field - Improved Drilling Results
This slide of drilling days versus depth portrays the improved drilling rate in the Overton Field since its purchase from Fina in 2001.  Fina's average drilling rate was 55 days.  Upon the Field's purchase in 2001 SWN decreased that rate to 35 days.  It was further decreased to 27 days in 2002, 23 days in 2003, 19 days in 2004 and 18 days in 2005.
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "forward-looking statement".
(Slide 25)
U.S. Gas Consumption and Sources
This slide displays U.S. gas production versus U.S. gas consumption from 1975 to the present. Net imports for the same period are also given.  U.S. gas production has been basically flat since 1994.
Source:  EIA
(Slide 26) U.S. Gas Production Decline Rate
This graph portrays U.S. natural gas production history.  The graph indicates a 32% 2006E decline rate.
*Supply impact of 32% vs. 19-23% is under estimated
Utilizes data supplied by IHS Energy; Copyright IHS Energy
Chart prepared by and Property of EOG Resources, Inc.; Copyright 2006
(Slide 27) U.S. Electricity Consumption on the Rise
This line graph shows an increase in U.S. electricity consumption in billion kilowatt-hours per month from 1990 to present.
Source:  Edison Electric Institute
(Slide 28) NYMEX Gas Prices
This line graph represents NYMEX gas prices in $/Mcf from 2000 to present.
Source:  Bloomberg
(Slide 29) U.S. Gas Drilling
This line graph denotes the number of rigs drilling for gas through the period 1988 to present.
Source:  Baker Hughes
(Slide 30) West Texas Intermediate Oil Prices
This line graph shows the price of West Texas Intermediate oil in $/Bbl for the years 2000 to present.
Source:  Bloomberg
(Slide 31) Oil and Gas Price Comparison
This line graph compares the prices of Henry Hub natural gas and WTI crude oil in $/MMBtu and $/Bbl, respectively, for the period 1994 to present.
Source:  Bloomberg
(Slide 32)
Explanation and Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures: Net Cash Flow
Net cash provided by operating activities before changes in operating assets and liabilities is presented because of its acceptance as an indicator of an oil and gas exploration and production company's ability to internally fund exploration and development activities and to service or incur additional debt. The company has also included this information because changes in operating assets and liabilities relate to the timing of cash receipts and disbursements which the company may not control and may not relate to the period in which the operating activities occurred. Net cash provided by operating activities before changes in operating assets and liabilities should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for net cash provided by operating activities prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Forecasting changes in operating assets and liabilities would require unreasonable effort, would not be reliable and could be misl eading. Therefore, the reconciliation of the company's forecasted net cash provided by operating activities before changes in operating assets and liabilities has assumed no changes in assets and liabilities. The first table below reconciles actual net cash provided by operating activities before changes in operating assets and liabilities with net cash provided by operating activities as derived from the company's financial information.
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "forward-looking statement".
(Slide 33)
Explanation and Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures: EBITDA
EBITDA is defined as net income plus interest, income tax expense, depreciation, depletion and amortization. Southwestern has included information concerning EBITDA because it is used by certain investors as a measure of the ability of a company to service or incur indebtedness and because it is a financial measure commonly used in the energy industry.  EBITDA should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for net income, net cash provided by operating activities or other income or cash flow data prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles or as a measure of the company's profitability or liquidity. EBITDA as defined above may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. Net income is a financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. The table below reconciles historical EBITDA with historical net income.
 
(1)    2000 amounts exclude unusual items of $109.3 million for the Hales judgment and $2.0 million for other litigation.
(2)Provision for income taxes for 2003 includes the tax benefit associated with the cumulative effect of adoption of accounting principle.
   
The table below reconciles forecasted EBITDA with forecasted net income for 2007, assuming different NYMEX price scenarios and their corresponding estimated impact on the company's results for 2007, including current hedges in place, as of December 15, 2006:
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "forward-looking statement".
 


