FILE:SWN/SWN-8K-20080903163344.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
       
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
       
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
       
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
       
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Section 5 - Corporate Governance and Management
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
(b)  On September 3, 2008,  Southwestern Energy Company (the "Company") announced that Richard F. Lane resigned his positions as Executive Vice President of the Company and as President of the Company's subsidiaries, SEECO, Inc. and Southwestern Energy Production Company as well as all other offices and positions with the Company, its subsidiaries, affiliates, joint ventures, partnerships or any other business enterprises, and from any office or position with any trade group or other industry organization which he holds on behalf of the Company or its subsidiaries or affiliates, effective September 3, 2008 (the "Resignation Date").   The press release is attached hereto as .
Exhibit 99.1
 
(e)  The Company and Mr. Lane entered into a Separation Agreement (the "Separation Agreement") in connection with the above-described resignations.  Under the Separation Agreement, which became effective on the Resignation Date, the Company accelerated the vesting of 18,470 shares of restricted stock and 44,999 stock options previously awarded to Mr. Lane which would have otherwise vested in December 2008, and the exercisability of all of Mr. Lane's vested options have been extended for a period of two (2) years following the Resignation Date.  With respect to the portions of the performance units granted to him under the Company's 2002 Performance Unit Plan (the "Performance Unit Plan") on December 8, 2005, December 11, 2006 and December 13, 2007 (respectively, the "2005 Grant", the "2006 Grant" and the "2007 Grant") that were not vested as of the Resignation Date but would have vested on or before December 31, 20 08 (each an "Accelerated PUP"), the Company shall pay Mr. Lane for such Accelerated PUPs in accordance with the overall level of achievement under the original grants or upon a Change of Control (as defined in the Performance Unit Plan) at the time that payment is due and required to be made under the Performance Unit Plan.  Mr. Lane will also remain eligible for his cash incentive bonus payable for fiscal 2008 under the Company's Incentive Compensation Plan, based upon his full 2008 salary (i.e., not prorated) and the achievement by the Company of the previously established performance objectives, with the discretionary component of his bonus to be at the level of achievement of the performance objectives.  In exchange for the benefits offered in the Separation Agreement, Mr. Lane provided to the Company general releases with respect to claims arising out of his employment or separation from employment.  The Separation Agreement is attached hereto as and is incorporated by reference herein as if set forth in full. The descriptions of the material terms of the Separation Agreement set forth above are qualified in their entirety by reference to such exhibit.  
Exhibit 10.1
 
Effective as of the Resignation Date, the Company and Mr. Lane also entered into a Consulting Agreement (the "Consulting Agreement") pursuant to which Mr. Lane agreed to provide consulting services to the Company on a non-exclusive basis until December 31, 2009, unless earlier terminated by either party.  In consideration for Mr. Lane's consulting services, the Company will pay Mr. Lane the sum of Twenty-Six thousand Seven Hundred Seventy-Five Dollars ($26,775.00) per month during the term of the Consulting Agreement.  In the event the Company terminates the Consulting Agreement without cause, Mr. Lane shall be entitled to receive the monthly payments through the remaining term.  As part of the consulting services to be provided by Mr. Lane, Mr. Lane will identify for the Company potentially productive, geologic prospects within the United States that are available for leasing or other acquisition and which are not in geographic areas wher e the Company already has operations or that have not already been identified by the Company (collectively, "Prospects") and the Company will have the right, but not the obligation to acquire up to an undivided seventy-five percent (75%) interest in and to any and all Prospects acquired by Mr. Lane or any other person, firm, corporation, partnership, association, agency, or other business entity controlled (through ownership of at least 50% of the voting securities) by him during the period from the Resignation Date through December 31, 2009 (the "75% Right").  The 75% Right will survive any early termination of the Consulting Agreement.  In addition, under the Consulting Agreement, Mr. Lane is subject to non-disclosure, non-solicitation, non-competition and non-disparagement provisions.  The Consulting Agreement is attached hereto as and is incorporated by reference herein as if set forth in full.  The descriptions of the material terms of the Consulting Agreement set forth above are qualified in their entirety by reference to such exhibit.
Exhibit 10.2
 
Section 9 - Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
The following are filed as exhibits to this report:
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

THIS AGREEMENT, dated as of August 27, 2008 (the "Agreement"), by and between Southwestern Energy Company, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and Richard F. Lane (the "Executive").
WHEREAS, the parties intend that this Agreement provide for the Executive's resignation from employment with the Company and its subsidiaries;
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the covenants and agreements hereinafter set forth in this Agreement, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
1.
.  Upon the expiration of the Revocation Period (defined below), the Executive hereby agrees that he will resign from his employment with the Company, including from his position as Executive Vice President of the Company and from all other offices and positions with the Company and all of its subsidiaries, affiliates, joint ventures, partnerships or any other business enterprises, as well as from any office or position with any trade group or other industry organization which he holds on behalf of the Company or its subsidiaries or affiliates, effective as of September 3, 2008 (the "Resignation Date").
Resignation Date
2.
.  Subject to the provisions of paragraph 14 of this Agreement and in consideration for the Executive's obligations under this Agreement, in connection with the Executive's resignation, the Company shall pay and provide the Executive with the payments and benefits described in this paragraph 2 (the "Payments and Benefits"), which shall be payable as provided herein, provided that the Executive does not revoke this Agreement during the Revocation Period (as defined below).  The Payments and Benefits shall consist of the following:
Payments and Benefits
(i)
The Executive's balance in his account as of the Payment Date (as hereinafter defined) under the Company's Nonqualified Retirement Plan will be paid to him in a single lump sum as promptly as practicable after the first business day following the six-month anniversary of the Resignation Date (the "Payment Date").
(ii)
The Company will provide the Executive coverage under the Company's standard medical, dental and vision plans in which he participated prior to the Resignation Date, provided under COBRA (and will pay all COBRA premiums in connection therewith (the "COBRA Premiums")), for the period from the Resignation Date until the earlier of (x) eighteen (18) months following the Resignation Date; or (y) the date on which the Executive becomes eligible for medical and dental coverage from a third party.
(iii)
The stock options listed on that were granted to the Executive pursuant to the Company's 2004 Stock Incentive Plan and would have vested and become exercisable on or before December 31, 2008 (the "Accelerated Options"), shall vest as of the Resignation Date.  The Accelerated Options and the Executive's previously outstanding vested stock options as listed on will remain exercisable for a period of two years following the Resignation Date.  All stock options heretofore granted to the Executive that are not scheduled to vest on or before December 31, 2008 are forfeited as of the Resignation Date.
Schedule 2(iii)
Schedule 2(iii)
(iv)
The  restricted stock listed on that was granted to the Executive pursuant to the Company's 2004 Stock Incentive Plan and would have vested and become exercisable on or before December 31, 2008 (the "Accelerated Restricted Stock"), shall vest as of the Resignation Date.  All other restricted stock heretofore granted to the Executive that are not scheduled to vest on or before December 31, 2008 are forfeited as of the Resignation Date.
Schedule 2(iv)
(v)
With respect to the performance units granted to the Executive under the Company's 2002 Performance Unit Plan (the "Performance Unit Plan"), the Executive shall be paid the amounts to which he is entitled as of the Resignation Date under the Performance Unit Plan relating to the vested portions of the performance units granted to him on December 8, 2005 (the "2005 Grant") and December 11, 2006 (the "2006 Grant") on the date such payments are due to be paid under the Performance Unit Plan.  With respect to the portions of (i) the 2005 Grant, (ii) the 2006 Grant and (iii) the performance units granted to the Executive on December 13, 2007 (the "2007 Grant") under the Performance Unit Plan that were not vested as of the Resignation Date but would have vested on or before December 31, 2008 (as set forth on Schedule 2(v) hereto, each an "Acce lerated PUP"), the Company shall pay the Executive for such Accelerated PUP in accordance with the overall level of achievement under the original grant or upon a Change of Control (as defined in the Performance Unit Plan) at the time that payment is due and required to be made under the Performance Unit Plan.
(vi)
The Executive shall remain eligible for his cash incentive bonus payable for fiscal 2008 under the Company's Incentive Compensation Plan, based upon his full 2008 salary (i.e., not prorated) and the achievement by the Company of the previously established performance objectives, with the discretionary component of the Executive's bonus to be at the level of achievement of the performance objectives.   This amount shall be paid on or before March 15, 2009.
(vii)
The Company shall make a lump-sum payment to the Executive in respect of any unused vacation time as of the Resignation Date promptly after the expiration of the Revocation Period.  
(viii)
To the extent that the Executive elects to receive a lump-sum payment under the Company's Supplemental Retirement Plan, such amount will be paid to him in a single lump sum on the Payment Date.  
(ix)
Except as provided explicitly in this Agreement, the Executive shall not be entitled to any other or further benefits from the Company, including, without limitation, participation in health and dental insurance plans, medical reimbursement plans, disability and life insurance plans, stock plans, 401(k) plans, and other plans.
3.
.
Release by the Executive
(a) 
.  In consideration of the Payments and Benefits and after consultation with counsel, the Executive, and each of the Executive's respective heirs, executors, administrators, representatives, agents, successors and assigns (collectively, the "Releasors") hereby irrevocably and unconditionally release and forever discharge the Company and any of its subsidiaries, affiliates or predecessors (collectively, the "Company Group") and each of their respective officers, employees,
Release
directors, shareholders and agents from any and all claims, actions, causes of action, rights, judgments, obligations, damages, demands, accountings or liabilities of whatever kind or character (collectively, "Claims"), including, without limitation, any Claims arising under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, the Civil Rights Act of 1866, the Civil Rights Act of 1991, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, the Family Medical Leave Act of 1993, or any other federal, state, local or foreign law, that the Releasors may have, or in the future may possess, arising out of the Executive's employment relationship with and service as an employee, officer or director of the Company Group, and the termination of such relationship or service; provided, however, th at the release set forth in this paragraph 3(a) shall not apply to (1) the obligations of the Company under this Agreement or (2) any indemnification rights the Executive may have (x) under the Amended and Restated Indemnity Agreement between the Company and Executive or (y) in accordance with the Company's governance instruments or under any director and officer liability insurance maintained by the Company with respect to liabilities arising as a result of the Executive's service as an officer and employee of the Company (collectively, the "Company's Indemnification Obligations"). The Releasors further agree that the Payments and Benefits shall be in full satisfaction of any and all Claims for payments or benefits, whether express or implied, that the Releasors may have against the Company Group arising out of the Executive's employment relationship or the Executive's service as an employee, officer and director of the Company Group and the termination thereof.
(b)
.  In further consideration of the Payments and Benefits, the Releasors hereby unconditionally release and forever discharge the Company Group, and each of their respective officers, employees, directors, shareholders and agents from any and all Claims that the Releasors may have as of the date the Executive signs this Agreement arising under the Federal Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, as amended, and the applicable rules and regulations promulgated thereunder ("ADEA"). By signing this Agreement, the Executive hereby acknowledges and confirms the following: (1) the Executive was advised by the Company to consult with an attorney of his choice prior to signing this Agreement and to have such attorney explain to the Executive the terms of this Agreement, including, without limitation, the terms r elating to the Executive's release of claims arising under ADEA and, the Executive has in fact consulted with an attorney; (2) the Executive was given a period of not fewer than twenty-one (21) days to consider the terms of this Agreement and to consult with an attorney of his choosing with respect thereto; (3) the Executive is providing the release and discharge set forth in this paragraph 3(b) only in exchange for consideration in addition to anything of value to which the Executive is already entitled; and (4) that the Executive knowingly and voluntarily accepts the terms of this Agreement.
Specific Release of ADEA Claims
(c)
.  The Executive represents and warrants that he has not assigned any of the Claims being released under this paragraph 3.
No Assignment
(d)
.  The Executive agrees that he has not instituted, assisted or otherwise participated in connection with, any action, complaint, claim, charge, grievance, arbitration, lawsuit, or administrative agency proceeding, or action at law or otherwise against any member of the Company Group or any of their respective officers, employees, directors, shareholders or agents with respect to the matters covered in subparagraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph 3 and will not do so.
Claims
4.
.  This Agreement may be revoked by the Executive by a written instrument within the seven (7)-day period commencing on the date the Executive signs this Agreement (the
Revocation
"Revocation Period").  In the event of any such revocation by the Executive, all obligations of the parties under this Agreement shall terminate and be of no further force and effect as of the date of such revocation. No such revocation by the Executive shall be effective unless it is in writing and signed by the Executive and received by the Company prior to the expiration of the Revocation Period.
5.
.  This Agreement shall become effective as of the Resignation Date.
Effective Date of Agreement
6.
.  In the event of the Executive's death, with respect to any payments, entitlements or benefits payable or due hereunder, references in this Agreement to "the Executive" shall be deemed to refer, where appropriate, to the Executive's legal representatives or his beneficiary or beneficiaries.
Death
7.
.  All notices required to be given hereunder shall be given in writing, by personal delivery or by mail at the respective addresses of the parties hereto set forth above, or at such other address as may be designated in writing by either party, and in the case of the Company, to the attention of the General Counsel of the Company.  Any notice given by mail shall be deemed to have been given three days following such mailing. Copies of all notices to the Executive shall be given to Richard F. Lane, 38 Hildene Way, The Woodlands, Texas 77382.
Notices
8.
.  This Agreement may not be assigned by the Executive or the Company except that the Company may assign this Agreement to any successor in interest to the Company, provided that such assignee assumes all of the obligations of the Company hereunder. As used in this Agreement, "the Company" shall mean the Company as defined above and any successor to its business and/or assets which by reason hereof assumes and agrees to perform this Agreement by operation of law, or otherwise.
Assignment and Successors
9.
.  This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware, and any action to enforce the terms and conditions hereof shall be brought exclusively in the courts of the State of Delaware.  The parties also acknowledge and agree this Agreement involves a sum of money in excess of $100,000 and therefore the terms of Title 6, Section 2708, of the Delaware Code shall be applicable to any action brought hereunder.  Further, the Executive hereby submits to the jurisdiction of the courts of the State of Delaware for the purpose of litigating any action brought to enforce the terms and conditions of this Agreement.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision.
Governing Law
10.
.  The parties intend to be bound only upon execution of a written agreement and no negotiation, exchange of draft or partial performance shall be deemed to imply an agreement.
No Implied Contract
11.
.  This Agreement contains the entire understanding of the parties hereto relating to the subject matter herein contained, supersedes all prior agreements, understandings and writings (including but not limited to any Executive Severance Agreement between the Executive and the Company) except for the Company's Indemnification Obligations, and can be amended only by a writing signed by both parties hereto.
Entire Understanding; Amendments; Definitions
12.
.  Waiver by either the Executive or by the Company of any breach or default by the other party of any of the terms of this Agreement shall not operate as a waiver of any other breach or default, whether similar to or different from the breach or default waived. No waiver of any provision of
Waivers
this Agreement shall be implied from any course of dealing between the parties hereto or from any failure by either party hereto to assert its or his rights hereunder on any occasion or series of occasions.
13.
.  All amounts payable under this Agreement shall be paid less deductions and income and payroll tax withholdings as may be required under applicable law and any benefits and perquisites provided to the Executive under this Agreement shall be taxable to the Executive as may be required under applicable law.
Deductions and Withholdings
14.
.
Section 409A
(a)
The Company acknowledges that the Executive is a "specified employee" as defined and applied in Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended (the "Code"), and as such, may be subject to the imposition of certain excise taxes, interest and other penalties with respect to amounts or benefits payable under this Agreement in connection with his resignation hereunder in the event such payments or other benefits are found to constitute deferred compensation payments under Section 409A of the Code. Therefore, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, as of the Resignation Date, any Payments and Benefits or other payments due hereunder, that may constitute deferred compensation payments under Section 409A of the Code may not commence to the Executive until the Payment Date, except to the extent any regulations or guidance issued by t he Internal Revenue Service under Section 409A of the Code does not subject such payments or benefits to Section 409A; provided, that any payments in respect of any Payments and Benefits due to the Executive under paragraph 2 (whether payable in a lump sum or in installments in accordance with the Company's regular payroll practices or otherwise) that were so delayed during such six-month period shall be paid in the aggregate as soon as administratively practicable following the Payment Date; provided further, that the delivery to the Executive of any equity of the Company pursuant to paragraph 2 that was also so delayed during such six-month period will be delivered to him as soon as practicable following the Payment Date.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of the Executive's death, the Executive shall be entitled to the amounts required to be paid on the Payment Date under paragraph 2 as of the first business day of the month immediately following such event and the Company shall m ake the required payments as promptly as practicable following such date.
(b)
Furthermore, if prior to the Payment Date, Section 409A is modified to allow for any of the payments to be provided hereunder to the Executive to be made prior to the Payment Date without additional cost to the Executive by reason of such earlier payments, then all such payments shall be accelerated and shall be made as promptly as practicable following the release of the modifications to Section 409A, in accordance with the terms of these modifications.
(c)
If any provision of this Agreement contravenes any regulations or Department of Treasury guidance promulgated under Section 409A of the Code, or could cause any amounts or benefits hereunder to be subject to taxes, interest or penalties under Section 409A of the Code, the Company may, in its sole discretion and without the Executive's consent, modify the Agreement to: (i) comply with, or avoid being subject to, Section 409A of the Code and avoid the imposition of taxes, interest and penalties under Section 409A of the Code, and (ii) maintain, to the maximum extent practicable, the original intent of the applicable provision without contravening the provisions of Section 409A of the Code. This paragraph 14 is not intended to create an obligation on the part of the Company to modify this Agreement and does not guarantee that the amounts or benefits owed under the Agree ment will not be subject to interest and penalties under Section 409A of the Code.
15.
  This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts.
16.
.   The descriptive headings contained in this Agreement are included for convenience of reference only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement. Unless otherwise expressly provided for in this Agreement, the word "including" or ay variation thereof means "including, without limitation" and shall not be construed to limit any general statement that it follows to the specific or similar items or matters immediately following it.
Headings
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the day and year first above written.
 
EXECUTIVE
SOUTHWESTERN ENERGY COMPANY
 
By:
       /s/ RICHARD F. LANE       
By:  
     /s/ STEVEN L. MUELLER       
RICHARD F. LANE
Name:  Steven L. Mueller
            Title:  President & Chief Operating Officer
 
December 8, 2008 vesting of 15,806 shares from the stock option grant dated December 8, 2005 (as adjusted for stock split in 2008).
December 11, 2008 vesting of 14,567 shares from the stock option grant dated December 11, 2006 (as adjusted for stock split in 2008).
December 13, 2008 vesting of 14,626 shares from the stock option grant dated December 13, 2007 (as adjusted for stock split in 2008).
53,512 Stock Options that were granted on December 17, 2000 (as adjusted for stock splits in 2005 and 2008).
50,000 Stock Options that were granted on December 20, 2001 (as adjusted for stock splits in 2005 and 2008).
97,556 Stock Options that were granted on December 11, 2002 (as adjusted for stock splits in 2005 and 2008).
105,122 Stock Options that were granted on December 10, 2003 (as adjusted for stock splits in 2005 and 2008).
98,936 Stock Options that were granted on December 9, 2004 (as adjusted for stock splits in 2005 and 2008).
31,614 Stock Options that were granted on December 8, 2005 (as adjusted for stock split in 2008).
14,566 Stock Options that were granted on December 11, 2006 (as adjusted for stock split in 2008).
This Schedule is subject to change following the Effective Date if any amount set forth herein is found to be incorrect or inconsistent with the Company's records.
December 9, 2008 vesting of 9,160 shares from the restricted stock award on December 9, 2004 (as adjusted for stock splits in 2005 and 2008).
December 8, 2008 vesting of 3,335 shares from the restricted stock award on December 8, 2005 (as adjusted for stock split in 2008).
December 11, 2008 vesting of 2,920 shares from the restricted stock award on December 11, 2006 (as adjusted for stock split in 2008).
December 13, 2008 vesting of 3,055 shares from the restricted stock award on December 13, 2007 (as adjusted for stock split in 2008).
350 performance units granted on December 8, 2005:  233.33 units vested as of the Resignation Date; and 116.67 Accelerated PUPs, all payable in March 2009 in accordance with the Performance Unit Plan.
 
350 performance units granted on December 11, 2006:  116.67 units vested as of the Resignation Date; and 116.67 Accelerated PUPs, all payable in March 2010 in accordance with the Performance Unit Plan. 116.67 unvested units will be forfeited as of the Resignation Date.
500 performance units granted on December 13, 2007:  0 units vested as of the Resignation Date; and 166.67 Accelerated PUPs that will be payable in March 2011 in accordance with the Performance Unit Plan.  333.33 unvested units will be forfeited as of the Resignation Date.

This Consulting Agreement ("Agreement") is entered into this 27 day of August, 2008, by and between , an individual, ("Consultant") and (the "Company"), a Delaware corporation.
th
RICHARD F. LANE
SOUTHWESTERN ENERGY COMPANY
, Consultant is employed as Executive Vice President of the Company, and President of its subsidiaries SEECO, Inc. and Southwestern Energy Production Company as well as a director of certain of the Company's other subsidiaries;
WHEREAS
, pursuant to the terms of a certain Separation Agreement dated of even date herewith, between Consultant and Executive (the "Separation Agreement"), upon the expiration of the Revocation Period (as defined in the Separation Agreement), Consultant will be resigning his employment with the Company and all of its subsidiaries, affiliates, joint ventures, partnerships or any other business enterprises, as well as from any office or position with any trade group or other industry organization which he holds on behalf of the Company or its subsidiaries or affiliates, effective as of September 3, 2008 (the "Effective Date"); and
WHEREAS
, the Company desires that Consultant be available to provide certain consulting services to the Company (collectively, the "Consulting Services") and assist in the transition of his former responsibilities with respect to the exploration and production business of the Company and its subsidiaries and such other activities as may be requested from time to time by the Company (collectively, the "Company's E&P Business") and Consultant has agreed to perform consulting work for the Company by providing such Consulting Services;
WHEREAS
, the parties wish to enter an agreement whereby Consultant continues to provide the Company with the benefit of his valuable experience and knowledge of the E&P industry and the Company's operations, and to that end they hereby covenant and agree as follows:
THEREFORE
1.1
Consultant shall provide the Consulting Services to the Company from time to time as requested by the Company.  Consultant will devote such time as is reasonably required to perform the Consulting Services for the Company under this Agreement but shall have discretion in selecting the dates and times he performs such Consulting Services giving due regard to the needs of the Company's business.  As part of the Consulting Services, Consultant shall identify for the Company potentially productive, geologic prospects within the United States that are available for leasing or other acquisition and which are not in geographic areas where the Company already has operations or that have not already been identified by the Company (collectively, "Prospects").
.  
Consultant's Services
1.2
 In consideration for the Consulting Services, for the period from the Effective Date through December 31, 2009, the Company will pay Consultant the rate of $26,775.00 per month.
.
Consideration
2.1
 This Agreement shall commence on the Effective Date and shall terminate on December 31, 2009, unless earlier terminated by either party hereto.  Either party may terminate this Agreement upon thirty (30) days prior written notice; provided, however, if the Company terminates this Agreement without cause, Consultant shall be entitled to receive the monthly payments described in Section 1.2 for the remaining term of the Agreement.  This Agreement shall automatically terminate if Consultant shall revoke the Separation Agreement prior to the expiration of the Revocation Period.
.
Term
2.2
 The provisions of Articles 4, 5, 6 and 7 of this Agreement shall survive the termination of this Agreement and shall remain in full force and effect thereafter for the duration specifically stated in those Articles.
.
Survival
3.1
.  Each party acknowledges that Consultant is not an employee for state or federal tax purposes or any other purpose and that neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries or affiliates is obligated to pay any contribution to Social Security, unemployment insurance or to withhold federal or state taxes.  It is understood that the Company will not withhold any amounts from Consultant's consideration hereunder for payment of federal, state or local taxes of any nature.Consultant shall be responsible for all taxes arising from any and all amounts paid to him under this Agreement, and he shall be responsible for all payroll taxes and fringe benefits of his employees, if any.  Consultant agrees that, as an independent contractor, it is his responsibility to report and pay any contributions for taxes, unemployment insurance, Social Security and other benefits for himself or anyone he employs.
Taxes
 
3.2
Consultant expressly acknowledges and agrees that he (i) is acting as an independent contractor in performing the Consulting Services hereunder, (ii) is not entitled to health, accident, disability, workers' compensation or any other insurance coverage from the Company, its subsidiaries or affiliates and (iii) shall not be entitled to any rights and or privileges of employees of the Company, its subsidiaries or affiliates and shall not be considered in any way to be an employee of the Company, its subsidiaries or affiliates.  Consultant and Consultant's employees, if any, will not be eligible for, and shall not participate in, any employee pension, health, welfare, or other fringe benefit plan provided by the Company to its employees and no workers' compensation insurance shall be obtained by Company covering Consultant or Consultant's employees.
.  
Benefits
3.3
The relationship between Consultant and the Company created by this Agreement shall be that of independent contractor, and Consultant shall have no authority to bind or act as agent for the Company, its subsidiaries or affiliates or any of their employees for any purpose.  Consultant does not and shall not represent the Company, its
.  
No Representation or Agency
Board of Directors, its officers, or any other employee of the Company in any transaction or communication; nor shall Consultant make any claim to do so.  Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, the Company shall exercise no control over Consultant nor the methods or means employed by Consultant in performing the Consulting Services.  The Company shall not direct Consultant in the performance of the Consulting Services hereunder and is solely interested in the attainment of the desired results.
4.1
 For the purposes of this Agreement, "Propriety Information" shall mean any and all information in any form related in any way to the Company's E&P Business that was disclosed to Consultant by any person or entity in the course of, or in furtherance of, Consultant's prior employment with the Company or his Consulting Services rendered hereunder.  Proprietary Information shall be deemed to include, without limitation, any trade secrets; methods; processes; formulae; systems; techniques; original inventions; prototypes; computer programs; customer lists; seismic data; lease terms and conditions; pricing and cost data and formulae; financial data, systems, and methods; extraction and production data, methods, systems, plans, and infrastructure; marketing techniques and plans; drawings and blueprints; business policies and practices; designs, reports, manuals, correspondence, and business plans of any nature; testing and research projects and data of any nature; past, present, and future development plans; engineering plans and specifications; manufacturing systems and methods; service systems and methods; past, present, and future products; sales and distribution data, methods, systems, and plans; suppliers; customers and clients; and any information received from a third-party that the Company is obligated to treat as confidential.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, Proprietary Information shall not include any information that is, or becomes through no breach of obligations of confidentiality by Consultant, known to the public.
.
"Proprietary Information" Defined
4.2
 Consultant acknowledges that all Proprietary Information (including all copies and reproductions thereof) remains the sole and exclusive property of the Company, and he has returned to the Company all documents, notes, removable computer disks, correspondence, manuals, and other papers and media containing Proprietary Information, including any and all copies, reproductions, or summaries of same, that he acquired during the course of his previous employment with the Company  and will return all such materials that he may obtain in the course of rendering Consulting Services hereunder.  Consultant further agrees that he shall permanently delete or otherwise permanently destroy any and all Proprietary Information that may be contained on any non-removable computer hard drive or other data storage device that is Consultant's personal prop erty.
.
Property of the Company
4.3
 Consultant (1) shall in perpetuity maintain in trust and confidence and not disclose to any third party, either orally or in writing, any Proprietary Information without the prior express written authorization of the Company; and (2) shall in perpetuity not use Propriety Information for any personal or business purpose, whether for himself or any third-party, not in furtherance of his Consulting Services to the Company hereunder.
.
Non-Disclosure Covenant
4.4
.  Consultant agrees that he shall not publicly or privately disparage or criticize the Company, its subsidiaries, affiliates, officers, directors or employees.  The Company agrees that its executive officers and directors will not, and will not knowingly permit the Company to, publicly or privately disparage or criticize Consultant.
Non-Disparagement Covenant
4.5
.  In the event that Consultant elects to use the service of any other person, entity or organization in the performance of Consultant's duties hereunder, no Proprietary Information shall be disclosed to that person, entity or organization until such person, entity or organization has executed an agreement in form satisfactory to the Company covenanting to protect the confidentiality of such Proprietary Information and acknowledging the Company's ownership of all right, title and interest in such Proprietary Information.
Third-Parties
5.1
.  Consultant acknowledges that in his previous employment as Executive Vice President of the Company and President of SEECO, Inc. and Southwestern Energy Production Company, he acquired an intimate knowledge of the business activities of the Company and its subsidiaries in the States of Texas, Oklahoma, Arkansas, Louisiana and Pennsylvania, and he agrees this wide scope of knowledge necessitates a broad geographical area of non-competition in order to protect the business interests of the Company.  Therefore, Consultant agrees that from the Effective Date and through December 31, 2009 (the "Non-Compete Period"), he shall not, directly or indirectly, as owner, operator, agent, employee, independent contractor, or consultant of any corporation, partnership, association, agency, or other business entity, use the Company's Proprietary Information by engaging in the business of oil and natural gas exploration, development, extraction or sale in the areas in which the Company had operations or had identified prospects as of the date of this Agreement in the States of Texas, Oklahoma, Arkansas and Pennsylvania (collectively, the "Non-Compete Areas"), except that Consultant may engage in such activities for the Company pursuant to the terms of this Agreement. .
Non-Competition Covenant
5.2
 Consultant agrees that during the Non-Compete Period, he shall not directly or indirectly, on behalf of himself or any other person, firm, corporation, partnership, association, agency, or other business entity:
.
Non-Solicitation
a.
Call upon any person or entity who was a customer of the Company (i) on the date of this Agreement, (ii) at any time during Consultant's prior employment with the Company and its subsidiaries, or (iii) during the term of this Agreement, for the purpose of soliciting business or otherwise;
b.
Call upon any person or entity who was an employee, agent, or representative of the Company (i) on the date of this Agreement, or (ii) who is such at any time during the Non-Compete Period, for the purpose of soliciting or inducing such person or entity either to discontinue their business relationship with the Company or to establish a business relationship with Consultant or any other third-party; or
c.
Solicit, divert or take away or attempt to solicit, divert or take away any of the customers, clients, business, patrons, or employees of the Company, or others maintaining a business relationship with the Company, who were such during Consultant's prior employment with the Company, who were such on the date of this Agreement, or who are such at any time during the Non-Compete Period.
6.1
.  Consultant hereby grants the Company a first and prior exclusive right, but not the obligation, to acquire up to an undivided seventy-five percent (75%) interest (the "Company Share") in and to any and all Prospects acquired by Consultant or any other person, firm, corporation, partnership, association, agency, or other business entity controlled by Consultant (a "Consultant Company") during the period from the Effective Date through December 31, 2009.  For purposes of the immediately preceding sentence, a business entity shall be deemed "controlled" by Consultant if Consultant owns fifty percent (50%) or more of the voting securities of such business entity.  Consultant shall keep the Company informed on a current basis as to any potential or pending Prospects, such that the Company will have as m uch advance notice as possible so as to enable it to begin considering whether it may be interested in acquiring Prospects that may become available hereunder.  The Company's election to acquire less than the full Company Share of a Prospect or, alternatively, the Company's election to decline to participate in a Prospect altogether shall not affect or impair the Company's right to participate in other available Prospects.
Right of First Refusal for Prospects
6.2
.  The Company shall be given twenty (20) days from the date of receipt of the Prospect information package assembled by Consultant to elect to acquire all or a portion of the Company Share by written notification to Consultant of its election.  The Prospect information package shall include (i) a description of the Prospect, including the objective formation(s) included within the Prospect, (ii) all geological, geophysical, engineering, land and other material information as is within Consultant's possession, custody or control regarding the Prospect, and (iii) a budget that sets forth in reasonable detail a good faith estimate of the costs incurred and to be incurred in connection with the acquisition of the Prospect (collectively, the "Prospect Acquisition Costs"), including, but not limited to, (a) all costs associated with the acquisition of oil and gas leases, farmout agreements and other rights and contracts covering lands with the Prospect, (b) all costs associated with the acquisition of geological, geophysical, engineering and other pertinent data relating to the Prospect and (c) all reasonable overhead costs incurred and to be incurred by Consultant in connection with the acquisition of the Prospect.  If the Company elects not to participate in a Prospect or fails to provide Consultant with written notice of its election within such twenty (20) day period, then the Company shall no longer have any rights with respect to such Prospect.
Notice and Election Procedures
6.3
.  Upon making an election to participate, the Company and Consultant shall negotiate in good faith the terms of a definitive Prospect Development Agreement that shall set forth their respective rights and obligations regarding the acquisition and development of the Prospect.  The Prospect Development Agreement shall provide, among other things, that (i) contemporaneously with the execution of the Prospect Development
Prospect Participation
Agreement, the Company shall reimburse Consultant for its proportionate share of all Prospect Acquisition Costs incurred by Consultant through such execution date and (ii) thereafter, Consultant shall bill the Company monthly, in advance, for those Prospect Acquisition Costs that are projected to be incurred during each succeeding calendar month throughout the term of the Prospect Development Agreement.  The Prospect Development Agreement shall also set forth procedures for (i) conducting technical reviews of the Prospect, (ii) proposing the initial test well to be drilled on the Prospect (the "Initial Test Well") and (iii) consenting or non-consenting to the drilling of the Initial Test Well.  Once the location of the Initial Test Well for a Prospect has been approved, all drilling and development activities conducted on the Prospect shall be governed by the terms of a Joint Operating Agreemen t in substantially the same form as the A.A.P.L. Form 610-1989 Model Form Operating Agreement, with such modifications as the Company and Consultant may agree upon.  Consultant and the Company shall use all reasonable efforts to finalize the terms of the Prospect Development Agreement and the Joint Operating Agreement within twenty (20) days following the Company's election to participate in the Prospect.
7.1
 Consultant hereby acknowledges and agrees that, in the event of any breach of Articles 4, 5 or 6 of this Agreement, the Company will suffer irreparable injury such that no remedy at law will afford it adequate protection against or compensation for such injury. Accordingly, Consultant acknowledges and agrees that the Company shall be entitled to specific performance of Consultant's obligations under Articles 4, 5 and 6 of this Agreement as well as further injunctive relief as may be granted by the court to effectuate the terms, intent, and purpose of this Agreement.
.
Breach
7.2
 If any action at law or in equity is necessary to enforce the rights arising out of or relating to Articles 4, 5 or 6 of this Agreement, the Company shall be entitled to recover reasonable attorney's fees, costs, and other disbursements incurred in such enforcement in addition to any other relief to which it may be entitled.
.
Remedies
7.3
 Consultant acknowledges and agrees that the Company may inform any future or prospective employer of Consultant, or any other third-party, of the existence and content of Consultant's obligations under Articles 4, 5 and 6 of this Agreement, and Consultant agrees the terms of this Agreement shall be binding upon his successors and assigns, and shall inure to the benefit of the Company, and its successors and assigns.
.
Disclosure of Covenants
8.1
 Consultant warrants that Consultant has not previously assumed any obligation inconsistent with those undertaken by him under this Agreement.  Consultant covenants and agrees not to consult or provide any services in any manner or capacity to any direct competitor of the Company during the duration of this
.
Conflicts of Interest Prohibited
Agreement unless he is given express written authorization to do so by an executive officer of the Company.  A direct competitor of the Company for purposes of this Agreement is defined as any individual, partnership, corporation or other business entity that engages in the business of exploration, production, development, extraction or sales of oil or natural gas in the Non-Compete Areas.
8.2
.  All drawings, models, designs, formulas, methods, documents and tangible items prepared for and submitted to the Company by Consultant in connection with the Consulting Services rendered under this Agreement (other than the Prospects) shall belong exclusively to the Company and shall be deemed works made for hire.  To the extent that operation of law bars any such items from being deemed works made for hire, Consultant hereby assigns to the Company full ownership of such items, and the Company shall have the right to obtain and hold in its own name and right any trademark, copyright, or other similar registration or protection that may be available for the protection of the rights of ownership of such items.  Consultant agrees to give the Company or its designees all assistance reasonably required to perfect such rights.
Data
8.3
  Any notice or communication permitted or required by this Agreement shall be deemed effective when personally delivered or deposited, postage prepaid, in first-class mail properly addressed to the appropriate party at the address set forth below:
.
Notice
Notices to Consultant:  
38 Hildene Way
The Woodlands, Texas  77382
Notices to the Company:
Southwestern Energy Company
2350 N. Sam Houston Parkway East, Suite 125
Houston, Texas 77032
Attention:  Executive Vice President & General Counsel
8.4
In rendering Consulting Services under this Agreement, Consultant shall conform to the highest professional standards of work and business ethics.  Consultant shall not use time, materials, or equipment of the Company without the prior consent of the Company.
.
Standard of Conduct
8.5
.  This Agreement and that certain Confidentiality and Intellectual Property Agreement dated August 27, 2003 between Consultant and the Company constitute the entire agreement of the parties with regard to the subject matter hereof, and replaces and supersedes all other agreements or understandings, whether written or oral.  No amendment or extension of this Agreement shall be binding unless in writing and signed by both parties.
Entire Agreement and Amendments
8.6
.  The waiver by a party of a breach of any provision of this Agreement by the other party shall not operate or be construed as a waiver of any other or subsequent breach by the party in breach.
Waiver of Breach
8.7
This Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of Consultant and the Company and to the Company's successors and
. 
Binding Effect and Assignment
assigns. Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to permit the assignment by Consultant of any of his rights or obligations hereunder, and such assignment is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of the Company.
8.8
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware, and any action to enforce the terms and conditions hereof shall be brought exclusively in the courts of the State of Delaware.  The parties also acknowledge and agree this Agreement involves a sum of money in excess of $100,000 and therefore the terms of Title 6, Section 2708, of the Delaware Code shall be applicable to any action brought hereunder.  Further, Consultant hereby submits to the jurisdiction of the courts of the State of Delaware for the purpose of litigating any action brought to enforce the terms and conditions of this Agreement.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision.
.   
Governing Law, Severability, and Forum Selection
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement is executed as of the date set forth above, but shall not become effective until the Effective Date.
 
CONSULTANT
SOUTHWESTERN ENERGY COMPANY
 
By:
       /s/ RICHARD F. LANE       
By:  
     /s/ STEVEN L. MUELLER       
RICHARD F. LANE
Name:  Steven L. Mueller
            Title:  President & Chief Operating Officer

NEWS RELEASE
Houston, Texas  September 3, 2008...Southwestern Energy Company (NYSE: SWN) today announced that Richard F. Lane, Executive Vice President of the company and President of the company's exploration and production (E&P) subsidiaries, SEECO, Inc. and Southwestern Energy Production Company, has resigned his positions with the company and its subsidiaries effective September 3, 2008, to pursue personal and professional business interests. Mr. Lane will continue his relationship with Southwestern as a consultant to the company through December 31, 2009.
"I am proud of what has been accomplished by the people of Southwestern Energy during my 10 years with the company.  I look forward to being able to have a continuing relationship with them and to pursuing new opportunities in my life," said Mr. Lane.
"Richard has been an important contributor to the achievements of Southwestern Energy," stated Harold M. Korell, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "Although we are sad to see him go, we have built a strong and capable E&P organization to move us into the future. We look forward to continuing our relationship with Richard and taking advantage of his expertise.  I want to personally thank Richard for his contributions to Southwestern and wish him well in all of his future endeavors."
Southwestern Energy Company is an integrated natural gas company whose wholly-owned subsidiaries are engaged in oil and gas exploration and production and natural gas gathering and marketing. Additional information on the company can be found on the Internet at .
http://www.swn.com
Contacts:
Greg D. Kerley
Brad D. Sylvester, CFA
Executive Vice President
Manager, Investor Relations
 
and Chief Financial Officer
            (281) 618-4897
(281) 618-4803



