FILE:SWN/SWN-8K-20080807163448.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
       
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
       
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
       
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
       
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Explanatory Note
The information in this report, including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
SECTION 7.  REGULATION FD
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On August 11, 2008, Southwestern Energy Company (the "Company") will make a presentation to The Oil & Gas Conference sponsored by Enercom, Inc.  The presentation includes updated financial information, operating information relating to the Fayetteville Shale play, and updated guidance regarding the Company's projected net income, operating income, earnings per share, net cash provided by operating activities before changes in operating assets and liabilities ("Net Cash Flow") and earnings before income taxes, depreciation, depletion and amortization ("EBITDA") for the fiscal year 2008.  Net Cash Flow and EBITDA are non-GAAP measures that are reconciled on pages 33 and 34 of the presentation. A copy of the presentation is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
 
All statements in the presentation, other than historical financial information, may be deemed to be forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Although the Company believes the expectations expressed in such forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, such statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual results or developments may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. The Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
Exhibits.  The following exhibit is being furnished as part of this Report.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
Slide Presentation dated August 11, 2008
The following slides were presented by Southwestern Energy Company.
(Cover)
Southwestern Energy Company
Presentation to The Oil & Gas Conference Sponsored by Enercom, Inc.
 
August 11, 2008
 
NYSE: SWN
The left side of this slide contains a picture of a helicopter flying over a mountain range at sunset.  The caption above reads "The Right Balance."  The company's formula is located in the bottom corner.  The top-right corner of this slide contains the company logo.
(Slide 1) Southwestern Energy Company (NYSE: SWN)
General Information
Southwestern Energy Company is an integrated natural gas company whose wholly-owned subsidiaries are engaged in oil and gas exploration and production and natural gas gathering and marketing.
Market Data as of August 6, 2008
Investor Contacts
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Greg D. Kerley
 
Manager, Investor Relations
Brad D. Sylvester, CFA
* As adjusted to reflect a two-for-one stock split effected on March 25, 2008.
(Slide 2) Forward-Looking Statements
All statements, other than historical financial information, may be deemed to be forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements that address activities, outcomes and other matters that should or may occur in the future, including, without limitation, statements regarding the financial position, business strategy, production and reserve growth and other plans and objectives for the company's future operations, are forward-looking statements. Although the company believes the expectations expressed in such forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, such statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual results or developments may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. The company has no obligation and makes no undertaking to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. They are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may affect the company's operations, markets, products, services and prices and cause its actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. In addition to any assumptions and other factors referred to specifically in connection with forward-looking statements, risks, uncertainties and factors that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those indicated in any forward-looking statement include, but are not limited to: the timing and extent of changes in market conditions and prices for natural gas and oil (including regional basis differentials); the timing and extent of the company's success in discovering, developing, producing and estimating reserves; the economic viability of, and the company's success in drilling, the company's large acreage position in the Fayetteville Shale play, overall as well as relative to other productive shale gas plays; the company's ability to fund the company's planned capital investments; the company's ability to determine the most effective and economic fracture stimulation for the Fayetteville Shale formation; the impact of federal, state and local government regulation, including any increase in severance taxes; the costs and availability of oil field personnel services and drilling supplies, raw materials, and equipment and services; the company's future property acquisition or divestiture activities; increased competition; the financial impact of accounting regulations and critical accounting policies; the comparative cost of alternative fuels; conditions in capital markets and changes in interest rates, and any other factors listed in the reports the company has filed and may file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). For additional information with respect to certain of these and other factors, see reports filed by the company with the SEC. The company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
The Securities and Exchange Commission has generally permitted oil and gas companies, in their filings with the SEC, to disclose only proved reserves that a company has demonstrated by actual production or conclusive formation tests to be economically and legally producible under existing economic and operating conditions. We use the terms "estimated ultimate recovery," "EUR," "probable," "possible," and "non-proven" reserves, reserve "potential" or "upside" or other descriptions of volumes of reserves potentially recoverable through additional drilling or recovery techniques that the SEC's guidelines may prohibit us from including in filings with the SEC. These estimates are by their nature more speculative than estimates of proved reserves and accordingly are subject to substantially greater risk of being actually realized by the company.
(Slide 3) About Southwestern
 
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "Forward-Looking Statement".
 
(Slide 4) Recent Developments
 
 
Note:    Discretionary cash flow is net cash flow before changes in operating assets and liabilities and is a non-GAAP financial measure (see reconciliation on page 33).
 
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "Forward-Looking Statement".
 
(Slide 5) Proven Track Record
This slide contains bar charts for the periods ended December 31.
Note: Reserve data includes reserve revisions and excludes capital investments in drilling rigs.
(1)  EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure.  See explanation and reconciliation of EBITDA on page 34.
 
 
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "Forward-Looking Statement".
 
(Slide 6) Areas of Operations
This slide contains a map of Arkansas, Louisiana, Oklahoma, Texas and New Mexico with shadings to denote the Conventional Arkoma and Permian Basins, the Gulf Coast and the East Texas regions and the Fayetteville Shale.
Exploration and Production Segment
 
Conventional Arkoma
 
Fayetteville Shale
 
East Texas
 
Permian
 
Gulf Coast
Note: Reserve and production data by area does not add to year-end totals for Company due to exclusion of New Ventures area.
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "Forward-Looking Statement".
(Slide 7) Capital Investments
This slide contains a bar chart of company capital investments, summarized as follows:
This slide also contains a pie chart of the company's preliminary planned 2008 capital investments by area of operation, summarized as follows:
 
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "Forward-Looking Statement".
(Slide 8)
East Texas
This slide contains a map of several counties in East Texas.  The company's Overton and Angelina River Trend acreage positions are highlighted.  The James Lime Horizontals and the East Texas Salt Basin are also denoted on the map.  The cities of Tyler and Lufkin, Texas are displayed as reference points.
 
 
 
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "Forward-Looking Statement".
(Slide 9)
Arkoma Basin
 
This slide contains a map of Arkansas and Oklahoma with shading to denote the Arkoma Basin. The Fayetteville Shale Focus Area, Ranger Anticline, Midway and the area known as the Fairway are further noted. 
 
 
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "Forward-Looking Statement".
(Slide 10) Fayetteville Shale Focus Area
This slide contains a map of the Fayetteville Shale Focus Area in Arkansas.  Existing pilot areas and portions of the conventional fairway are indicated. 731,600 net acres and 125,400 net acres HBP are outlined on the map. A box denotes Conventional Production (12 MMcf/d). The Scotland Field, Gravel Hill Field, Griffin Mountain Field, Cove Creek Field, New Quitman Field, Chattanooga Test and Ranger Anticline are also designated.  The Moorefield Prospective Area is outlined.  Lines trace the Ozark, Centerpoint, NGPL, MRT and TETCO transmission pipelines.
Notes:    Map updated as of May 8, 2008.
                Well data excludes 24 wells which were sold in May 2008.
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "Forward-Looking Statement".
(Slide 11) Fayetteville Shale - Improving Well Performance
 
Note: Data as of June 30, 2008.
 
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "Forward-Looking Statement".
 
(Slide 12) Fayetteville Shale - Horizontal Well Performance
The graph contained in this slide provides average daily production data through June 30, 2008, for the company's horizontal wells drilled in the Fayetteville Shale.  This graph displays two composite curves, one showing the SW/XL normalized production from the company's horizontal wells excluding mechanical issues and another showing the SW normalized production from the company's horizontal wells with laterals greater than 3,000 feet excluding mechanical issues. The production data is compared to 2.5 Bcf, 2.0 Bcf and 1.5 Bcf typecurves from the company's reservoir simulation shale gas model.  Well counts and respective days of production are also displayed, as follows:
Note: Data as of June 30, 2008.
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "Forward-Looking Statement".
(Slide 13) Fayetteville Project - Gross Production
This line graph shows gross production in MMcf/d for the Fayetteville Shale from January 2006 to July 1, 2008. Gross operated production of approx. 500 MMcf/d as of July 1, 2008.
(Slide 14) Midstream - Capturing Additional Value Beyond the Wellhead
This slide contains a map of several counties in Arkansas where the company's Fayetteville Shale Focus Area is located.  These counties include Johnson, Pope, Van Buren, Cleburne, Logan, Yell, Conway, Faulkner and White.  Lines trace DeSoto Gathering Lines, Transmission, Planned Boardwalk Lateral and the Ozark, Centerpoint, NGPL, MRT and TETCO transmission pipelines.  Compression facilities are also indicated on the map.
 
Note:  Map updated as of May 8, 2008.
(1) EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure.  See explanation and reconciliation of EBITDA on page 34.
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "Forward-Looking Statement".
(Slide 15) Outlook for 2008
* Production target of 181 - 185 Bcfe in 2008 (estimated growth of ~60%).
 
Note:  Guidance updated as of August 6, 2008.  2007 oil and gas prices include actual last-day NYMEX closing prices through July 2008.
 
(1)     As adjusted to reflect the two-for-one stock split effected on March 25, 2008.
(2)     Net cash flow is net cash flow before changes in operating assets and liabilities.  Net cash flow and EBITDA are non-GAAP financial measures.  See explanation and reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures on pages 33 and 34.
(3)    Expected gross proceeds of asset divestitures (includes sale of utility, Fayetteville Shale acreage, and planned sale of Permian Basin and Gulf Coast assets).
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "Forward-Looking Statement".
(Slide 16) The Road to V
+
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "Forward-Looking Statement".
(Slide 17) Appendix
(Slide 18) Financial & Operational Summary
 
(1)    Net cash flow is net cash flow before changes in operating assets and liabilities.  Net cash flow and EBITDA are non-GAAP financial measures.  See explanation and reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures on pages 33 and 34.
(2)    Diluted earnings per share and diluted cash flow per share have been adjusted to reflect the two-for-one stock split effected on March 25, 2008 and two 2-for-1 stock splits during 2005.
(3)    Includes reserve revisions and excludes capital investments in drilling rigs.
(Slide 19) Consistent Commodity Hedging Strategy
This slide contains a bar chart detailing gas hedges in place by quarter for year 2008, year 2009 and year 2010.  A summary of these gas hedges is as follows:
 
SWN has historically hedged 70 - 80% of projected gas production volumes.
 
 
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "Forward-Looking Statement".
 
(Slide 20)
SWN is One of the Lowest Cost Operators
This slide contains a bar graph that compares SWN to its competitors in terms of lifting cost per Mcfe of production (3 year average).
This slide also contains a bar graph comparing SWN to its competitors in terms of drillbit F&D cost per Mcfe (3 year average).
 
Source:  John S. Herold Database
Note:  All data as of December 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007.
Drillbit F&D Cost per Mcfe defined as three-year sum of total costs incurred less the three-year sum of proved acquisitions cost divided by the three-year sum of reserve additions from extensions and discoveries.
 
(Slide 21)
Fayetteville Shale Activity Compared to the Barnett
This slide contains bar charts displaying the number of wells drilled in the Barnett Shale Play and the Fayetteville Shale Play, summarized as follows:
Barnett Shale Play
*1981  1 Well Drilled
st
*1992  1 Horizontal Well Drilled
st
*1997  1 Slickwater Frac
st
Fayetteville Shale Play
*Q2 2004  1 Well Drilled
st
*Q1 2005  1 Horizontal Well Drilled
st
*Q3 2005  1 Slickwater Frac
st
Source: Republic Energy Co., Tudor, Pickering, Holt & Co. Securities, Inc., Arkansas Oil & Gas Commission via PI-Dwights, Southwestern Energy
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "Forward-Looking Statement".
 
(Slide 22)
Fayetteville Shale Production Compared to the Barnett
 
The graph contained in this slide displays production volumes in MMcf/d for the Fayetteville Shale over a less than 4-year period and the Barnett Shale over a more than 20-year period.  It is noted that the total Fayetteville Shale Field average daily production for March 2008 was 564 MMcf/d.
A box accompanying the graph states:
We collapsed the "learning curve" dramatically; Paradigm shift in gas prices
Source: Tudor, Pickering, Holt & Co. Securities, Inc., Arkansas Oil & Gas Commission
 
(Slide 23)
The Energy Balance Today
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "Forward-Looking Statement".
(Slide 24)
U.S. Oil Consumption and Sources
This slide displays U.S. oil production versus U.S. oil consumption in thousands of barrels per year from 1981 to 2006. Net imports for the same period are also given.  Imports represent 66% of total US consumption.
Source:  EIA
(Slide 25)
West Texas Intermediate Oil Prices
This line graph shows the price of West Texas Intermediate oil in $/Bbl for the years 2000 to present noting a compound average growth rate of 30% from 2002 to 2008.  It is also noted, however, finding costs for US E&P Companies from 2002-2007 grew at a 26% CAGR.
Source: Bloomberg, John S. Herold, Inc.
(Slide 26)
Rising Resource Nationalism
This slide contains a bar graph displaying the volume of oil and gas resources in BBoe controlled by the following entities:
Government-owned Oil Companies (GOCs)  :
95%
Saudi Aramco, NIOC (Iran), Qatar Petroleum, ADNOC (UAE), Iraq NOC,
Gazprom (Russia), KPC (Kuwait), PDVSA (Venezuela), NNPC (Nigeria), NOC (Libya)
Sonatrach (Algeria), Rosneft (Russia), Petronas (Malaysia), Lukoil (Russia),
Pemex (Mexico), Petrochina (China), Petrobras (Brazil), ONGC (India), Sinopec (China)
International Oil Companies (IOCs)  :
5%
ExxonMobil, BP, Chevron, Royal Dutch Shell, Total, ConocoPhillips, ENI
* GOCs control an overwhelming majority of oil and gas resources.
Source: Merrill Lynch
(Slide 27)
The Challenges
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "Forward-Looking Statement".
(Slide 28)
U.S. Gas Consumption and Sources
This slide displays U.S. gas production versus U.S. gas consumption in Bcf from 1975 to 2006. Net imports for the same period are also given.  U.S. gas consumption and production rising in recent years.
Source: EIA
(Slide 29) U.S. Electricity Consumption on the Rise
This line graph shows an increase in U.S. electricity consumption in billion kilowatt-hours per month from 1990 to present.
Source:  Edison Electric Institute
(Slide 30) NYMEX Gas Prices
This line graph represents NYMEX gas prices in $/Mcf from 2000 to present.
Source:  Bloomberg
(Slide 31) U.S. Gas Drilling
This line graph denotes the number of rigs drilling for gas through the period 1988 to present.
Source:  Baker Hughes
(Slide 32) Oil and Gas Price Comparison
This line graph compares the prices of Henry Hub natural gas and WTI crude oil in $/MMBtu and $/Bbl, respectively, for the period 1994 to present.
Source:  Bloomberg
(Slide 33)
Explanation and Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures: Net Cash Flow
Net cash provided by operating activities before changes in operating assets and liabilities is presented because of its acceptance as an indicator of an oil and gas exploration and production company's ability to internally fund exploration and development activities and to service or incur additional debt. The company has also included this information because changes in operating assets and liabilities relate to the timing of cash receipts and disbursements which the company may not control and may not relate to the period in which the operating activities occurred. Net cash provided by operating activities before changes in operating assets and liabilities should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for net cash provided by operating activities prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Forecasting changes in operating assets and liabilities would require unreasonable effort, would not be reliable and could be misl eading. Therefore, the reconciliation of the company's forecasted net cash provided by operating activities before changes in operating assets and liabilities has assumed no changes in assets and liabilities. The first table below reconciles actual net cash provided by operating activities before changes in operating assets and liabilities with net cash provided by operating activities as derived from the company's financial information.
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "Forward-Looking Statement".
(Slide 34)
Explanation and Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures: EBITDA
EBITDA is defined as net income plus interest, income tax expense, depreciation, depletion and amortization. Southwestern has included information concerning EBITDA because it is used by certain investors as a measure of the ability of a company to service or incur indebtedness and because it is a financial measure commonly used in the energy industry.  EBITDA should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for net income, net cash provided by operating activities or other income or cash flow data prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles or as a measure of the company's profitability or liquidity. EBITDA as defined above may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. Net income is a financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. The table below reconciles historical EBITDA with historical net income.
 
(1)Net income for the Midstream Services segment was $6,933, depreciation, depletion and amortization was $5,527, net interest expense was $2,006 and provision for income taxes was $4,294.
   
(2)2000 amounts exclude unusual items of $109.3 million for the Hales judgment and $2.0 million for other litigation.
   
(3)    Provision for income taxes for 2003 includes the tax benefit associated with the cumulative effect of adoption of accounting principle.
The table below reconciles forecasted EBITDA with forecasted net income for 2008, assuming various NYMEX price scenarios and the corresponding estimated impact on the company's results for 2008, including current hedges in place, as of August 5, 2008:
 
(1)Midstream Services segment 2008 results assumes NYMEX commodity prices of $9.00 per Mcf for natural gas and $90.00 per barrel for crude oil.
   
Note that the information contained on this slide constitutes a "Forward-Looking Statement".


