FILE:SWN/SWN-8K-20080114143921.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
       
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
       
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
       
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
       
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Section 8 -  Other Events
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On January 11, 2008, Southwestern Energy Company (the "Company") issued a news release announcing the
pricing of $600 million principal amount of
7 % Senior Notes due 2018. Southwestern Energy intends to use approximately $591 million of the net proceeds of the offering to repay a portion of the amounts outstanding under its revolving credit facility, which had an outstanding balance of approximately $879.6 million as of January 9, 2008.  The offering is scheduled to close on Wednesday, January 16, 2008 and is subject to customary closing conditions. The news release is filed and incorporated herewith this filing as Exhibit 99.1.
The notes will not be registered under the Securities Act of 1933 or the securities laws of any state and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from the registration requirements under the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws. The notes may be resold by the initial purchasers pursuant to Rule 144A and Regulation S under the Securities Act. This press release shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any state in which the offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to the registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state.
 
Section
 9 - Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Exhibits.  The following exhibit is being filed and incorporated herewith as part of this Report.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Houston, Texas  January 11, 2008 Southwestern Energy Company (NYSE: SWN) announced today the pricing of $600 million principal amount of 7 % Senior Notes due 2018. Southwestern Energy intends to use approximately $591 million of the net proceeds of the offering to repay a portion of the amounts outstanding under its revolving credit facility, which had an outstanding balance of approximately $879.6 million as of January 9, 2008.  The offering is scheduled to close on Wednesday, January 16, 2008 and is subject to customary closing conditions.
The notes will not be registered under the Securities Act of 1933 or the securities laws of any state and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from the registration requirements under the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws. The notes may be resold by the initial purchasers pursuant to Rule 144A and Regulation S under the Securities Act. This press release shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any state in which the offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to the registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state.
Southwestern Energy Company is an integrated energy company whose wholly-owned subsidiaries are engaged in oil and gas exploration and production, and natural gas gathering and marketing. Additional information on the company can be found on the Internet at http://www.swn.com.
 
 
All statements, other than historical financial information, may be deemed to be forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements that address activities, outcomes and other matters that should or may occur in the future, including, without limitation, statements regarding the financial position, business strategy, production and reserve growth and other plans and objectives for the company's future operations, are forward-looking statements. Although the company believes the expectations expressed in such forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, such statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual results or developments may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. The company has no obligation and makes no undertak ing to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. They are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may affect the company's operations,
 
 
 
 
markets, products, services and prices and cause its actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. In addition to any assumptions and other factors referred to specifically in connection with forward-looking statements, risks, uncertainties and factors that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those indicated in any forward-looking statement include, but are not limited to: the timing and extent of changes in market conditions and prices for natural gas and oil (including regional basis differentials); the timing and extent of the company's success in discovering, developing, producing and estimating reserves; the economic viability of, and the company's success in drilling, the company's large acreage position in the Fayetteville Shale play, overall as well as relative to other productive shale gas plays; the company's ability to fund the company's planned capital investments; the company's ability to determine the most effective and economic fracture stimulation for the Fayetteville Shale formation; the costs and availability of oil field personnel services and drilling supplies, raw materials, and equipment and services, including pressure pumping equipment and crews in the Arkoma Basin; the company's future property acquisition or divestiture activities; the effects of weather; increased competition; the impact of federal, state and local government regulation; the financial impact of accounting regulations and critical accounting policies; the comparative cost of alternative fuels; conditions in capital markets and changes in interest rates, and any other factors listed in the reports the company has filed and may file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). For additional information with respect to cer tain of these and other factors, see reports filed by the company with the SEC. The company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 


