FILE:SWN/SWN-8K-20080520184824.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
       
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
       
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
       
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
       
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Section 5 - Corporate Governance and Management
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
(c) On May 6, 2008, the Board of Directors of Southwestern Energy Company, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), approved changes to the Company's executive management team. These changes were announced in a press release issued on May 20, 2008, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, and are described below.
 
On May 20, 2008, the Company announced that Steven L. Mueller, age 55, has been elected President and Chief Operating Officer effective June 2, 2008 (the "Effective Date").  Harold M. Korell will continue to serve as Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of the Company.  Mr. Mueller will report to Mr. Korell and will be responsible for the company's oil and gas exploration and production business and its Midstream operations. A graduate of the Colorado School of Mines, Mr. Mueller has over 30 years of experience in the oil and gas industry.  Since September 2007, Mr. Mueller served as the Executive Vice President of CDX Gas, LLC.  Prior to that, he was employed with The Houston Exploration Company, where he was the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer from November 2004 through June 2007 and the Senior Vice President and GM Onshore from September 2001 through November 2004.  
 
On May 13, 2008, the Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors approved the terms of compensation for Mr. Mueller.  The Compensation Committee approved compensation for Mr. Mueller in his new role of President and Chief Operating Officer consisting of (a) an annual base salary of $450,000; (b) an annual cash bonus under the Company's Incentive Compensation Plan with a target amount of 150% of his base salary, with a maximum of 225%; and (c)  long-term incentive compensation for 2008, on a prorated basis, to be awarded on the Effective Date consisting of: (i) 17,500 options to purchase the Company's common stock, $0.01 par value, vesting 33-1/3% per year over 3 years and having an exercise price that will be the closing price of the Company's stock on the Effective Date, (ii) 5,630 shares of restricted stock that will vest proportionately over 4 years accompanied with a cash tax' b onus to be calculated using Mr. Mueller's estimated tax rate and the closing price of the Company's stock on the Effective Date, and (iv) 360 performance units (with a target value of $1,000 per unit) pursuant to the Company's Performance Unit Plan that will be payable based on the Company's performance for the fiscal years 2008-2010.  Mr. Mueller's salary and cash bonus for 2008 will be prorated and payable from the Effective Date.  In addition, as a sign-on bonus, the Compensation Committee determined that Mr. Mueller will receive on the Effective Date an additional 33,000 shares of restricted stock that will vest proportionately over 4 years accompanied with a cash tax' bonus to be calculated using Mr. Mueller's estimated tax rate and the closing price of the Company's stock on the Effective Date.  In 2008, Mr. Mueller will receive the following perquisites:  the payment of dues for one social club designated by the Company, a $7,380 annual car allowance (prorated for 2008), estate and financial planning expenses for each NEO up to $18,500 per year, a medical reimbursement plan that covers all out-of-pocket expenses and an annual complete personal physical exam.
 
On the Effective Date, Mr. Mueller and the Company will enter into an executive severance agreement, the form of which is filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, that will entitle him to receive a payment if within three years after a "change in control," (i) his employment is terminated without "cause" or (ii) he voluntarily terminates employment with the Company for "good reason". The severance agreement does not provide severance benefits outside the context of a change in control. The severance payment for Mr. Mueller will be equal to the product of 2.99 and the sum of base salary as of his termination date plus the maximum bonus opportunity available to him under the Incentive Compensation Plan, and the Company will reimburse him for any taxes imposed as a result of the change in control benefits under the so-called "parachute -  8; tax imposed by Section 280G of the Code.  The terms "change in control," "cause" and "good reason" are defined in the form of the executive severance agreement.
 
Section 9 - Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
The following are filed as exhibits to this report:
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

NEWS RELEASE
Houston, Texas  May 20, 2008Southwestern Energy Company (NYSE: SWN) today announced the appointment of Steven L. Mueller as President and Chief Operating Officer effective as of June 2, 2008.  Harold M. Korell will continue to serve as the Company's Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer.  Mr. Mueller will report to Mr. Korell and will be responsible for the company's oil and gas exploration and production business and its Midstream operations. A graduate of the Colorado School of Mines, Mr. Mueller has over 30 years of experience in the oil and gas industry and has served in multiple operational and managerial roles at Tenneco Oil Company, Fina Oil Company, American Exploration Company, Belco Oil & Gas Company, The Houston Exploration Company and CDX Gas, LLC.  
"I have had the good fortune to work with Steve for several years while we were both at Tenneco and again at American Exploration, and I look forward to bringing his leadership and tremendous abilities in all facets of the business into Southwestern Energy," stated Harold M. Korell, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Southwestern. "Steve's addition strengthens our executive management team in a very positive way as we grow into the future."
Southwestern Energy Company is an independent energy company whose wholly-owned subsidiaries are engaged in oil and gas exploration and production, natural gas gathering and marketing and natural gas distribution. Additional information on the company can be found on the Internet at .
http://www.swn.com
Contacts:
Greg D. Kerley
Brad D. Sylvester, CFA
Executive Vice President
Manager, Investor Relations
 
and Chief Financial Officer
            (281) 618-4897
(281) 618-4803
All statements, other than historical financial information, may be deemed to be forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements that address activities, outcomes and other matters that should or may occur in the future, including, without limitation, statements regarding the financial position, business strategy, production and reserve growth and other plans and objectives for the company's future operations, are forward-looking statements. Although the company
believes the expectations expressed in such forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, such statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual results or developments may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. The company has no obligation and makes no undertaking to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. They are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may affect the company's operations, markets, products, services and prices and cause its actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. In addition to any assumptions and other factors referred to specifically in connection with forward-looking statements, risks , uncertainties and factors that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those indicated in any forward-looking statement include, but are not limited to: the timing and extent of changes in market conditions and prices for natural gas and oil (including regional basis differentials); the timing and extent of the company's success in discovering, developing, producing and estimating reserves; the economic viability of, and the company's success in drilling, the company's large acreage position in the Fayetteville Shale play, overall as well as relative to other productive shale gas plays; the company's ability to fund the company's planned capital investments; the company's ability to determine the most effective and economic fracture stimulation for the Fayetteville Shale formation; the impact of federal, state and local government regulation, including any increase in severance taxes; the costs and availability of oil field personnel services an d drilling supplies, raw materials, and equipment and services, including pressure pumping equipment and crews in the Arkoma Basin; the company's future property acquisition or divestiture activities; the effects of weather; increased competition; the financial impact of accounting regulations and critical accounting policies; the comparative cost of alternative fuels; conditions in capital markets and changes in interest rates, and any other factors listed in the reports the company has filed and may file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). For additional information with respect to certain of these and other factors, see reports filed by the company with the SEC. The company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.



