FILE:SWN/SWN-8K-20100524162958.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
       
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
       
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
       
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
       
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Section 5  Corporate Governance and Management.
Item 5.02  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(b) On May 18, 2010, the Board of Directors of Southwestern Energy Company (the ""), upon the recommendation of the Nominating and Governance Committee, established a separate annual retainer of $50,000 for the position of Chairman of the Board of Directors if such position is held by a person who is not an employee of the Company.  Harold M. Korell, who retired as an employee of the Company on March 31, 2010 and who was re-elected as a director of the Company at the Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on May 18, 2010, will continue to serve as the non-executive Chairman of the Board of Directors.  
Company
Item 5.03  Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
On May 18, 2010, subject to receipt of the requisite approval of the Company's stockholders, the Board of Directors approved an increase in the number of authorized shares of common stock of the Company from 540,000,000 shares to 1,250,000,000 shares and the amendment and restatement of the Company's certificate of incorporation in the form set forth as Exhibit B to the Company's definitive proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 6, 2010 (the ""). At the Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on May 18, 2010, such amendment and restatement of the Company's certificate of incorporation was approved by more than a majority of the holders of the Company's outstanding shares of common stock as of March 31, 2010.  The Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on May 19, 2010, is filed as Exhibit 3.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K, which is incorporated herein by reference.  The foregoing description of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation.   
Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation
On May 18, 2010, the Board of Directors amended and restated the Company's Bylaws in order to clarify that the position of the Chairman of the Board of Directors is not an officer of the Company unless designated as such by the Board of Directors.   The clarification of the position of non-executive Chairman of the Board of Directors effected by the adoption of the amended and restated Bylaws (the "") is primarily reflected in changes to Article II "Meetings of Stockholders" (revisions to Section 2.14 Conduct of Meetings and Section 2.15 Inspectors of Election), Article III "Directors" (the addition of Section 3.13 "Chairman of the Board of Directors" and Section 3.14 "Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors") and Article IV (revisions to Section 4.1 "General," Section 4.2 "Chairman of the Board of Directors," Section 4.3 "Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors" and Section 4.6 "Secretary") in the Amended and Restated Bylaws. The Amended and Restated Bylaws are filed as Exhibit 3.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K, which is incorporated herein by reference.  The foregoing description of the Amended and Restated Bylaws does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Amended and Restated Bylaws.   
Amended and Restated Bylaws
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Southwestern Energy Company, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware, pursuant to Sections 228, 242 and 245 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, as the same may be amended and supplemented, hereby certifies as follows:
 
1.
The name of this corporation is Southwestern Energy Company. The original Certificate of Incorporation was filed on February 22, 2006. The original name of the Corporation was Southwestern Energy Company.
 
2.
This Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, which was duly adopted in accordance with Sections 228, 242 and 245 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, restates and amends the original Certificate of Incorporation to read in its entirety as follows:
 
FIRST:
  The name of the Corporation is Southwestern Energy Company (the "Corporation").
 
SECOND:
  The address of the registered office of the Corporation in the State of Delaware is Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, County of New Castle. The name of its registered agent at that address is The Corporation Trust Company.
 
THIRD:
  The purpose of the Corporation is to engage in any lawful act or activity for which a corporation may be organized under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "GCL").
 
FOURTH:
  (a)  
Authorized Capital Stock.
The total number of shares of stock which the Corporation shall have authority to issue is 1,260,000,000 shares of capital stock, consisting of (i) 1,250,000,000 shares of common stock, $0.01 par value (the "Common Stock"), and (ii) 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share (the "Preferred Stock").
 
(b)
No Cumulative Voting.
The holders of shares of Common Stock shall not have cumulative voting rights.
 
(c)
No Preemptive or Subscription Rights.
No holder of shares of Common Stock shall be entitled to preemptive or subscription rights.
 
(d)
Preferred Stock.
The Board of Directors is hereby expressly authorized to provide for the issuance of all or any shares of the Preferred Stock in one or more classes or series, and to fix for each such class or series such voting powers, full or limited, or no voting powers, and such designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights and such qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, as shall be stated and expressed in the resolution or resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors providing for the issuance of such class or series, including, without limitation, the authority to provide that any such class or series may be (i) subject to redemption at such time or times and at such price or prices; (ii) entitled to receive dividends (which may be cumulative or non-cumulative) at such rates, on such conditions, and at such times, and payable in preference to, or in such relation to, the dividends payable on any other class or classes or any other series; (iii) entitled to such rights upon the dissolution of, or upon any distribution of the assets of, the Corporation; or (iv) convertible into, or exchangeable for, shares of any other class or classes of stock, or of any other series of the same or any other class or classes of stock, of the Corporation at such price or prices or at such rates of exchange and with such adjustments; all as may be stated in such resolution or resolutions;
provided
,
however
, that no shares of any series of Preferred Stock shall be issued without the approval of the Company's shareholders if (A) the voting rights of the shares of such series would be materially disproportionate to the voting rights of the shares of the Company's Common Stock or (B) the shares of such series would be convertible into a materially disproportionate number of shares of Common Stock, in each case taking into account the issue price of the shares of such series and the fair market value of the shares of Common Stock at the time of such issuance.
FIFTH:
  The following provisions are inserted for the management of the business and the conduct of the affairs of the Corporation, and for further definition, limitation and regulation of the powers of the Corporation and of its directors and stockholders:
 
(a)
The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of the Board of Directors.
 
(b)
The number of directors of the Company shall be fixed by the bylaws and may be increased or decreased from time to time in the manner specified therein;
provided
,
however
, that the number of directors shall not be less than three. Election of directors need not be by ballot.
 
(c)
A director shall hold office until the annual meeting for the year in which his or her term expires and until his or her successor shall be elected and shall qualify, subject, however, to prior death, resignation, retirement, disqualification or removal from office.
 
(d)
Subject to the terms of any one or more classes or series of Preferred Stock, any vacancy on the Board of Directors may be filled by a majority of the Board of Directors then in office, even if less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director. Any director elected to fill a vacancy not resulting from an increase in the number of directors shall have the same remaining term as that of his predecessor. If the vacancy arose from an increase in the number of directors, the newly elected director will hold office until the next annual meeting or until his or her successor shall be elected and shall qualify. Subject to the rights, if any, of the holders of shares
of Preferred Stock then outstanding, any or all of the directors of the Corporation may be removed from office at any time, with or without cause, by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the voting power of the Corporation's then outstanding capital stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors.
(e)
In addition to the powers and authority hereinbefore or by statute expressly conferred upon them, the directors are hereby empowered to exercise all such powers and do all such acts and things as may be exercised or done by the Corporation, subject, nevertheless, to the provisions of the GCL, this Certificate of Incorporation, and any Bylaws adopted by the Board of Directors or the stockholders;
provided
,
however
, that no Bylaws hereafter adopted by the Board of Directors or the stockholders shall invalidate any prior act of the directors which would have been valid if such Bylaws had not been adopted.
SIXTH:
  No director shall be personally liable to the Corporation or any of its stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a director, except to the extent such exemption from liability or limitation thereof is not permitted under the GCL as the same exists or may hereafter be amended. If the GCL is amended hereafter to authorize the further elimination or limitation of the liability of directors, then the liability of a director of the Corporation shall be eliminated or limited to the fullest extent authorized by the GCL, as so amended. Any repeal or modification of this Article SIXTH shall not adversely affect any right or protection of a director of the Corporation existing at the time of such repeal or modification with respect to acts or omissions occurring prior to such repeal or modification.
 
SEVENTH:
  The Corporation shall indemnify its directors and officers to the fullest extent authorized or permitted by law, as now or hereafter in effect, and such right to indemnification shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director or officer of the Corporation and shall inure to the benefit of his or her heirs, executors and personal and legal representatives. The right to indemnification conferred by this Article SEVENTH shall include the right to be paid by the Corporation the expenses incurred in defending or otherwise participating in any proceeding in advance of its final disposition.
 
The Corporation may, to the extent authorized from time to time by the Board of Directors, provide rights to indemnification and to the advancement of expenses to employees and agents of the Corporation similar to those conferred in this Article SEVENTH to directors and officers of the Corporation.
The rights to indemnification and to the advance of expenses conferred in this Article SEVENTH shall not be exclusive of any other right which any person may have or hereafter acquire under this Certificate of Incorporation, the Bylaws of the Corporation, any statute, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise. Any repeal or modification of this Article SEVENTH shall not adversely affect any rights to indemnification and to the advancement of expenses of a director or officer of the Corporation existing at the time of such repeal or modification with respect to any acts or omissions occurring prior to such repeal or modification.
 
EIGHTH:
  [Intentionally Left Blank]
 
NINTH:
  Meetings of stockholders may be held within or without the State of Delaware, as the Bylaws may provide. The books of the Corporation may be kept (subject to any provision contained in the GCL) outside the State of Delaware at such place or places as may be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors or in the Bylaws of the Corporation.
 
TENTH:
  Unless otherwise required by law, Special Meetings of Stockholders, for any purpose or purposes, may only be called by (i) the Chairman of the Board of Directors, if there be one, (ii) the President, (iii) the Secretary, (iv) the Board of Directors or (v) holders of twenty-five percent (25%) or more of the voting shares of the Corporation.
 
ELEVENTH:
  Unless otherwise required by law, stockholders shall be permitted to act by written consent in lieu of a meeting if the consent is signed by the number of stockholders necessary to authorize such action at a meeting where all shares entitled to vote thereon were present and voted;
provided
,
however
, that if the stockholder action is on a proposal that would have the effect of increasing the Corporation's capital stock or indebtedness, such action may only be taken by written consent without a meeting upon the unanimous consent of all the Corporation's shareholders.
 
TWELFTH:
  In furtherance and not in limitation of the powers conferred upon it by the laws of the State of Delaware, the Board of Directors shall have the power to adopt, amend, alter or repeal the Corporation's Bylaws. The affirmative vote of at least a majority of the entire Board of Directors shall be required to adopt, amend, alter or repeal the Corporation's Bylaws. The Corporation's Bylaws also may be adopted, amended, altered or repealed by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the voting power of the shares entitled to vote at an election of directors.
 
THIRTEENTH:
  The Corporation reserves the right to amend, alter, change or repeal any provision contained in this Certificate of Incorporation in the manner now or hereafter prescribed in this Certificate of Incorporation, the Corporation's Bylaws or the GCL, and all rights herein conferred upon stockholders are granted subject to such reservation.
 
I, THE UNDERSIGNED, being a duly authorized officer of the Corporation, do make this Certificate, hereby declaring and certifying that this is my act and deed and the facts herein stated are true, and accordingly have hereunto set my hand this 19
th
day of May, 2010.
/s/ MARK K. BOLING
MARK K. BOLING
Secretary
 

 
1.1
.  The registered office of the Corporation shall be in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, State of Delaware.
Registered Office
1.2
.  The Corporation may also have offices at such other places, both within and without the State of Delaware, as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine.
Other Offices
2.1
.  Meetings of the stockholders for the election of directors or for any other purpose shall be held at such time and place, either within or without the State of Delaware, as shall be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors.
Place of Meetings
2.2
.  The Annual Meeting of Stockholders of the Corporation (the "Annual Meeting") for the election of directors shall be held on such date and at such time as shall be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors.  Any other proper business may be transacted at the Annual Meeting.
Annual Meetings
2.3
.  No business may be transacted at an Annual Meeting, other than business that is either (a) specified in the notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors (or any duly authorized committee thereof), (b) otherwise properly brought before the Annual Meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors (or any duly authorized committee thereof) or (c) otherwise properly brought before the Annual Meeting by any stockholder of the Corporation (i) who is a stockholder of record on the date of the giving of the notice provided for in this Section 2.3 and on the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to notice of and to vote at such Annual Meeting and (ii) who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 2.3.
Nature of Business at Meetings of Stockholders
At any meeting of stockholders, only such business shall be conducted as shall have been properly brought before the meeting.  For business to be properly brought before a meeting by a stockholder, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof to the Secretary of the Corporation.  To be timely, such notice must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than 50 nor more than 60 days prior to the meeting date; provided, however, that in the event that less than 45 days' notice of the meeting date is given to stockholders, notice by the stockholder must be so received no later than the close of business on the 15th day following the day on which notice of the meeting date was mailed.  
Such stockholder's notice shall set forth as to each matter the stockholder proposes to bring before the meeting: (i) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting, (ii) the name and address of the stockholder proposing such business, (iii) the class and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation that are owned beneficially or of record by such stockholder, (iv) a description of all arrangements or understandings between such stockholder and any other person or persons (including their names) in connection with the proposal of such business by such stockholder and any material interest of such stockholder in such business and (v) a representation that such stockholder intends to appear in person or by proxy at the Annual Meeting to bring such business before the meeting.  The presiding officer of the meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine that business was not properly brought before the meeting in accordance with the foregoing procedure and, if he should so determine, he may so declare to the meeting and any such business not properly brought shall not be transacted.  Notwithstanding the provisions of this paragraph, so long as the Corporation is subject to Rule 14a-8 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), business consisting of a proposal properly included in the Corporation's proxy statement with respect to a meeting pursuant to such Rule may be transacted at a meeting.
2.4
.  Only persons who are nominated in accordance with the following procedures shall be eligible for election as directors of the Corporation, except as may be otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation with respect to the right of holders of preferred stock of the Corporation to nominate and elect a specified number of directors in certain circumstances.  Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors at any Annual Meeting, or at any Special Meeting of Stockholders called for the purpose of electing directors, may be made (a) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors (or any duly authorized committee thereof) or (b) by any stockholder of the Corporation (i) who is a stockholder of record on the date of the giving of the notice provided for in this Section 2.4 and on the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to notice of and to vote at such meeting and (ii) who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 2.4.
Nomination of Directors
In addition to any other applicable requirements, for a nomination to be made by a stockholder, such stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in proper written form to the Secretary of the Corporation.  To be timely, a stockholder's notice shall be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than 50 nor more than 75 days prior to the meeting date; , , that in the event that less than 45 days' notice of the meeting date is given to stockholders, notice by the stockholder must be so received
provided
however
no later than the close of business on the 15th day following the day on which notice of the meeting date was mailed.  Such stockholder's notice shall set forth (a) as to each nominee whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election or reelection as a director, (i) the name, age, business address and residence address of the nominee, (ii) the principal occupation or employment of the nominee, (iii) the class and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation that are owned beneficially or of record by the nominee and (iv) any other information relating to the person that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for election of directors pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder; and (b) as to the stockholder giving the notice, (i) the name and record address of the stockholder, (ii) the class and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation that are beneficially owned by the stockholder, (iii) a description of all arrangements or understandings between such stockholder and each proposed nominee and any other person or persons (including their names) pursuant to which the nomination(s) are to be made by such stockholder and (iv) a representation that such stockholder intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to nominate the persons named in its notice.  Such notice must be accompanied by a written consent of each proposed nominee to being named as a nominee and to serve as a director if elected.  The Corporation may require any proposed nominee to furnish such other information as may reasonably be required by the Corporation to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as a director of the Corporation.  The presiding officer of the meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine that a nomination was not made in accordance with the foregoing procedure, and if he should so determine, he may so declare to the meeting and the defective nomination shall be disregarded.
2.5
.  Unless otherwise required by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, Special Meetings of Stockholders, for any purpose or purposes, may be called by either (i) the Chairman, (ii) the President, (iii) the Secretary, (iv) the Board of Directors or (v) holders of twenty-five percent (25%) or more of the voting shares of the Corporation.  At a Special Meeting of Stockholders, only such business shall be conducted as shall be specified in the notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto).
Special Meetings
2.6
.  Whenever stockholders are required or permitted to take any action at a meeting, a written notice of the meeting shall be given which shall state the place, date and hour of the meeting, and, in the case of a Special Meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called.  Unless otherwise required by law, written notice of any meeting shall be given not less than ten (10) nor more than sixty (60) days before the date of the meeting to each stockholder entitled to notice of and to vote at such meeting.  Whenever any notice is required by these Bylaws to be given, personal notice is not meant unless expressly so stated, and any notice so required shall be deemed to be sufficient if given by depositing the same in a post office box in a sealed postage paid wrapper, addressed to the person entitled thereto at his last known post office address, and such notice shall be deemed to have been given on the date of such mailing.  Any notice required to be given under these Bylaws may be waived by the person entitled thereto.  Stockholders not entitled to vote shall not be entitled to receive notice of any meetings except as otherwise provided by statute.  
Notice
2.7
.  Any meeting of the stockholders may be adjourned from time to time to reconvene at the same or some other place, and notice need not be given of any such
Adjournments
adjourned meeting if the time and place thereof are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken.  At the adjourned meeting, the Corporation may transact any business which might have been transacted at the original meeting.  If the adjournment is for more than thirty (30) days, or if after the adjournment a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, notice of the adjourned meeting in accordance with the requirements of Article VI hereof shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to notice of and to vote at the meeting.
2.8
.  Unless otherwise required by applicable law or the Certificate of Incorporation, the holders of a majority of the Corporation's capital stock issued and outstanding and entitled to vote thereat, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at all meetings of the stockholders for the transaction of business.  A quorum, once established, shall not be broken by the withdrawal of enough votes to leave less than a quorum.  If, however, such quorum shall not be present or represented at any meeting of the stockholders, the stockholders entitled to vote thereat, present in person or represented by proxy, shall have power to adjourn the meeting from time to time, in the manner provided in Section 2.7 hereof, until a quorum shall be present or represented.
Quorum
2.9
.  Unless otherwise required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, any question, with the exception of the election of directors, brought before any meeting of the stockholders shall be decided by the vote of the holders of a majority of the total number of votes of the Corporation's capital stock represented and entitled to vote thereat, voting as a single class.  Directors shall be elected by a plurality of voting power of the total number of votes of the Corporation's capital stock represented and entitled to vote thereat, voting as a single class. Unless otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation, and subject to Section 2.12 of this Article II, each stockholder represented at a meeting of the stockholders shall be entitled to cast one (1) vote for each share of the capital stock entitled to vote thereat held by such stockholder.  Such votes may be cast in person or by proxy as provided in Section 2.11 of this Article II.  The Board of Directors, in its discretion, or the officer of the Corporation presiding at a meeting of the stockholders, in such officer's discretion, may require that any votes cast at such meeting shall be cast by written ballot.
Voting
2.10
.  Each stockholder entitled to vote at a meeting of the stockholders may authorize another person or persons to act for such stockholder as proxy, but no such proxy shall be voted upon after three years from its date, unless such proxy provides for a longer period.  Without limiting the manner in which a stockholder may authorize another person or persons to act for such stockholder as proxy, the following shall constitute a valid means by which a stockholder may grant such authority:
Proxies
(i)
A stockholder may execute a writing authorizing another person or persons to act for such stockholder as proxy.  Execution may be accomplished by the stockholder or such stockholder's authorized officer, director, employee or agent signing such writing or causing such person's signature to be affixed to such writing by any reasonable means, including, but not limited to, by facsimile signature.
(ii)
A stockholder may authorize another person or persons to act for such stockholder as proxy by transmitting or authorizing the transmission of a telegram, cablegram or other means
of electronic transmission to the person who will be the holder of the proxy or to a proxy solicitation firm, proxy support service organization or like agent duly authorized by the person who will be the holder of the proxy to receive such telegram, cablegram or transmission, provided that any such telegram or cablegram must either set forth or be submitted with information from which it can be determined that the telegram, cablegram or electronic transmission was authorized by the stockholder.  If it is determined that such telegrams, cablegrams or electronic transmissions are valid, the inspectors or, if there are no inspectors, such other persons making that determination shall specify the information on which they relied.
Any copy, facsimile telecommunication or other reliable reproduction of the writing, telegram, cablegram or transmission authorizing another person or persons to act as proxy for a stockholder may be substituted or used in lieu of the original writing, telegram, cablegram or transmission for any and all purposes for which the original writing, telegram, cablegram or transmission could be used; provided, however, that such copy, facsimile telecommunication or other reproduction shall be a complete reproduction of the entire original writing, telegram, cablegram or transmission.
2.11
.  The officer of the Corporation who has charge of the stock ledger of the Corporation shall prepare and make, at least ten (10) days before every meeting of the stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, and showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder.  Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, during ordinary business hours, for a period of at least ten (10) days prior to the meeting (i) either at a place within the city where the meeting is to be held, which place shall be specified in the notice of the meeting, or, if not so specified, at the place where the meeting is to be held or (ii) during ordinary business hours, at the principal place of business of the Corporation.  The list shall also be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time thereof, and may be inspected by any stockholder who is present.
List of Stockholders Entitled to Vote
 
2.12
.  In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of the stockholders or any adjournment thereof, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors, and which record date shall not be more than sixty (60) nor less than ten (10) days before the date of such meeting.  If no record date is fixed by the Board of Directors, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of the stockholders shall be at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice is given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held.  A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of the stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
Record Date
2.13
.  The stock ledger of the Corporation shall be the only evidence as to who are the stockholders entitled to examine the stock ledger, the list required by Section 2.11
Stock Ledger
of this Article II or the books of the Corporation, or to vote in person or by proxy at any meeting of the stockholders.
2.14
.  The Board of Directors of the Corporation may adopt by resolution such rules and regulations for the conduct of any meeting of the stockholders as it shall deem appropriate. Except to the extent inconsistent with such rules and regulations as adopted by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board or the presiding officer of any meeting of the stockholders shall have the right and authority to prescribe such rules, regulations and procedures and to do all such acts as, in the judgment of such presiding officer, are appropriate for the proper conduct of the meeting.  Such rules, regulations or procedures, whether adopted by the Board of Directors or prescribed by the Chairman of the Board or the presiding officer of the meeting, may include, without limitation, the following:  (i) the establishment of an agenda or order of business for the meeting; (ii) the determination of when the polls shall open and close for any given matter to be voted on at the meeting; (iii) rules and procedures for maintaining order at the meeting and the safety of those present; (iv) limitations on attendance at or participation in the meeting to stockholders of record of the Corporation, their duly authorized and constituted proxies or such other persons as the presiding officer of the meeting shall determine; (v) restrictions on entry to the meeting after the time fixed for the commencement thereof; and (vi) limitations on the time allotted to questions or comments by participants.
Conduct of Meetings
2.15
.  In advance of any meeting of the stockholders, the Board of Directors, by resolution, the Chairman of the Board of Directors or the President shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting and make a written report thereof.  One or more other persons may be designated as alternate inspectors to replace any inspector who fails to act.  If no inspector or alternate is able to act at a meeting of the stockholders, the presiding officer of the meeting shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting.  Unless otherwise required by applicable law, inspectors may be officers, employees or agents of the Corporation.  Each inspector, before entering upon the discharge of the duties of inspector, shall take and sign an oath faithfully to execute the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of such inspector's ability.  The inspector shall have the duties prescribed by law and shall take charge of the polls and, when the vote is completed, shall make a certificate of the result of the vote taken and of such other facts as may be required by applicable law.
Inspectors of Election
3.1
.  (a)  The Board of Directors shall consist of not less than six (6) nor more than ten (10) members.  The number of directors shall be fixed from time to time by resolution of a majority of the entire Board, provided that changes in the size of the Board of more than thirty percent (30%) above or below the established range may only be adopted with the approval of holders of a majority of the Corporation's outstanding voting stock.  A majority of the directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.  Directors need not be stockholders.  
Number, Quorum, Qualifications and Retirement
(b)
The directors shall be elected in the manner provided in the Delaware General Corporation Law.  Any nominee for director in an uncontested election who receives a greater number of votes "withheld" from his or her election than votes "for" such election shall submit his or her offer of resignation for consideration by the Nominating and Governance Committee of the Board of Directors within 90 days from the date of the election. The Nominating and Governance Committee of the Board of Directors shall consider all of the relevant facts and circumstances and recommend to the Board of Directors the action to be taken with respect to such offer of resignation. For purposes of this Section, an "uncontested election" shall mean an election in which the number of nominees as of the record date for the meeting at which directors are to be elected does not exceed the number of directors to be elected at such meeting.
(c)
Retired directors may be appointed to the position of director emeritus by the unanimous vote of the board or after having 20 years of service and shall be invited, but not required, to attend the Annual Meeting and shall be available for consultation with management as required. Only existing non-employee members of the board of directors are eligible to become directors emeriti.  Employee members of the board of directors will become eligible for the position of director emeritus after their employee status has ended.  Any director becoming a director emeritus is no longer eligible for election as a director.  A director emeritus may resign at any time.
3.2
.  Any vacancy on the Board of Directors that results from an increase in the number of directors may be filled by a majority of the Board of Directors then in office, provided that a quorum is present, and any other vacancy occurring on the Board of Directors may be filled by a majority of the Board of Directors then in office, even if less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director.  Any director elected to fill a vacancy resulting from an increase in the number of directors shall hold office for a term that shall coincide with the remaining term of other directors.  Any director elected to fill a vacancy not resulting from an increase in the number of directors shall have the same remaining term as that of his or her predecessor.
Vacancies
3.3
.  The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of the Board of Directors which may exercise all such powers of the Corporation and do all such lawful acts and things as are not by statute or by the Certificate of Incorporation or by these Bylaws required to be exercised or done by the stockholders.
Duties and Powers
3.4
.  The Board of Directors may hold meetings, both regular and special, either within or without the State of Delaware.  Regular meetings of the Board of Directors may be held without notice at such time and at such place as may from time to time be determined by the Board of Directors.  Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called by the Chairman, if there be one, the President, or by any two directors.  Notice thereof stating the place, date and hour of the meeting shall be given to each director either by mail not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the date of the meeting, by telephone or telegram on twenty-four (24) hours' notice, or on such shorter notice as the person or persons calling such meeting may deem necessary or appropriate in the circumstances.
Meetings
3.5
.  At each meeting of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, or, in his or her absence, a director chosen by a majority of the directors present, shall act as chairman.  The Secretary of the Corporation shall act as secretary at each
Organization
meeting of the Board of Directors.  In case the Secretary shall be absent from any meeting of the Board of Directors, an Assistant Secretary shall perform the duties of secretary at such meeting; and in the absence from any such meeting of the Secretary and all the Assistant Secretaries, the presiding officer of the meeting may appoint any person to act as secretary of the meeting.
3.6
 Any director of the Corporation may resign at any time, by giving notice in writing to the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the President or the Secretary of the Corporation.  Such resignation shall take effect at the time therein specified or, if no time is specified, immediately; and, unless otherwise specified in such notice, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.  Except as otherwise required by applicable law and subject to the rights, if any, of the holders of shares of preferred stock then outstanding, any director or the entire Board of Directors may be removed from office at any time, with or without cause, by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority in voting power of the issued and outstanding capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote in the election of directors.
Resignations and Removals of Directors.
3.7
.  Except as otherwise required by law or the Certificate of Incorporation, at all meetings of the Board of Directors, a majority of the entire Board of Directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business and the act of a majority of the directors present at any meeting at which there is a quorum shall be the act of the Board of Directors.  If a quorum shall not be present at any meeting of the Board of Directors, the directors present thereat may adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting of the time and place of the adjourned meeting, until a quorum shall be present.
Quorum
3.8
.  Unless otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting, if all the members of the Board of Directors or committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing, and the writing or writings are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board of Directors or committee.
Actions of the Board by Written Consent
3.9
.  Unless otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, members of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, or any committee thereof, may participate in a meeting of the Board of Directors or such committee by means of a conference telephone or other communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation in a meeting pursuant to this Section 3.9 shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
Meetings by Means of Conference Telephone
3.10
.  The Board of Directors may designate one or more committees, each committee to consist of one or more of the directors of the Corporation.  The Board of Directors may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of any such committee.  In the absence or disqualification of a member of a committee, and in the absence of a designation by the Board of Directors of an alternate member to replace the absent or disqualified member, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not such member or members constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the
Committees
Board of Directors to act at the meeting in the place of any absent or disqualified member.  Any committee, to the extent permitted by law and provided in the resolution establishing such committee, shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation, and may authorize the seal of the Corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it. Each committee shall keep regular minutes and report to the Board of Directors when required.
3.11
.  The directors may be paid their expenses, if any, of attendance at each meeting of the Board of Directors and may be paid a fixed sum for attendance at each meeting of the Board of Directors and a stated salary for service as director, payable in cash and/or securities.  A director emeritus shall receive an annual fee of $2,000 for the remainder of his life and such health care benefits as the Corporation provides to its full time employees.  No such payment shall preclude any director or director emeritus from serving the Corporation in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor.  Members of special or standing committees may be allowed like compensation for service as committee members.
Compensation
3.12
.  The directors may appoint from their number an executive committee which may make its own rules of procedure and shall meet where and as provided by such rules, or by a resolution of the directors.  A majority shall constitute a quorum, and in every case the affirmative vote of a majority of all the members of the committee shall be necessary to the adoption of any resolution. During the intervals between the meetings of the directors the executive committee shall have and may exercise all the powers of the directors in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation, including power to authorize the seal of the Corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it, in such manner as such committee shall deem best for the interests of the Corporation, in all cases in which specific directions shall not have been given by the directors.  
Executive Committee
3.13
.  The directors shall appoint from their number a Chairman of the Board of Directors, who shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors and shall be a member of the executive committee, if any.  The Chairman of the Board of Directors shall have supervision of such matters as may be designated to him by the Board of Directors or the executive committee.
Chairman of the Board of Directors
3.14
.  The directors may appoint from their number a Vice Chairman, who shall be vested with all the powers and perform all of the duties of the Chairman of the Board of Directors in the absence or disability of the latter unless or until the Board of Directors shall otherwise determine.
Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors
4.1
.  The officers of the Corporation shall be a President, one or more Vice Presidents, one or more of whom may be designated as Executive Vice President and shall have senior authority, a Secretary, a Treasurer, and such assistants and other officers as may from time to time be elected or appointed by the Board of Directors.  The Board of Directors, by resolution,
General
may also designate the Chairman and the Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors as officers.  Two or more offices may be held by the same person.  
4.2
.  If designated as an officer of the Corporation, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, in addition to his responsibilities as a director, shall have supervision of such matters as may be designated to him by the Board of Directors or the executive committee.  
Chairman of the Board of Directors
4.3
.  If the Chairman and the Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors are designated as an officer of the Corporation, the Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors shall be vested with all the powers and shall perform all the duties of the Chairman in the absence or disability of the latter unless or until the Board of Directors shall otherwise determine.  He shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as shall be prescribed by the Board of Directors.  
Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors
4.4
.  The President shall, in the absence of a Chairman of the Board, preside at all meetings of the directors, and act as Chairman at, and call to order all meetings of the stockholders; and he shall have power to call special meetings of the stockholders and directors for any purpose or purposes, appoint and discharge, subject to the approval of the directors, employees and agents of the Corporation, make and sign contracts and agreements in the name and behalf of the Corporation, except that he be not authorized to dispose or encumber material assets of the Corporation without the authority of the Board of Directors, and while the directors and/or committees are not in session he shall have general management and control of the business and affairs of the Corporation; he shall see that the books, reports, statements and certificates required by the statute under which this Corporation is organized or any other laws applicable thereto are properly kept, made and filed according to law; and he shall generally do and perform all acts incident to the office of President, or which are authorized or required by law.  
President
4.5
. The Vice Presidents in the order of their seniority shall be vested with all the powers and shall perform all the duties of the President in the absence or disability of the latter, unless or until the directors shall otherwise determine.  They shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as shall be prescribed by the directors.  
Vice President
 
4.6
.  The Secretary shall give, or cause to be given, notice of all meetings of the stockholders and directors, and all other notices required by law or by these Bylaws, and in case of his absence or refusal or neglect so to do, any such notice may be given by any person thereunto directed by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the President, or by the directors or stockholders upon whose requisition the meeting is called as provided in these Bylaws.  He shall record all proceedings of the meetings of the Corporation and of the directors in a book to be kept for that purpose, and shall perform such other duties as may be assigned to him by the directors or the President.  He shall have custody of the seal of the Corporation and shall affix the same to all instruments requiring it, when authorized by the directors or the President, and attest the same.  He shall be sworn to the faithful discharge of his duties.  
Secretary
4.7
.  The Assistant Secretary shall be vested with the powers and shall perform all the duties of Secretary in the absence or disability of the latter, unless or until the directors shall otherwise determine.  He shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as shall be prescribed by the directors.  
Assistant Secretary
4.8
.  The Treasurer shall have the custody of all funds, securities, evidences of indebtedness and other valuable documents of the Corporation; he shall receive and give or cause to be given receipts and acquittances for moneys paid in on account of the Corporation and shall pay out of the funds on hand all just debts of the Corporation of whatever nature upon maturity of the same; he shall enter or cause to be entered in books of the Corporation to be kept for that purpose full and accurate accounts of all monies received and paid out on account of the Corporation, and, whenever required by the President or the Board of Directors, he shall render a statement of his cash accounts.  He shall, unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, have charge of the original stock books, transfer books and stock ledgers and act as transfer agent in respect of the stock and securities of the Corporation; he shall prepare and submit from time to time to the Board of Directors financial, cash and operating budgets or estimates; he shall prepare and submit such other financial data and information as he shall be directed to by the Board of Directors; and he shall perform all of the other duties incident to the office of Treasurer.  He shall give the Corporation a bond for the faithful discharge of his duties in such amount and with such surety as the Board of Directors shall prescribe.  
Treasurer
4.9
.  The Assistant Treasurer shall be vested with all the powers and shall perform all the duties of Treasurer in the absence or disability of the latter, unless or until the directors shall otherwise determine.  He shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as shall be prescribed by the directors.  
Assistant Treasurer
4.10
.  The Corporate Controller shall be responsible for directing the Corporation's accounting functions.  Specific areas include the development and maintenance of planning and budgeting systems, analysis and interpretation of trends requiring management's attention, the preparation of financial and management reports and procedures, and senior management.  Ancillary responsibilities include the supervision of external auditors, and participation in the planning and execution of the utility rate cases.  
Controller
4.11
.  Such other officers as the Board of Directors may choose shall perform such duties and have such powers as from time to time may be assigned to them by the Board of Directors.  The Board of Directors may delegate to any other officer of the Corporation the power to choose such other officers and to prescribe their respective duties and powers.
Other Officers
4.12
.  Powers of attorney, proxies, waivers of notice of meeting, consents and other instruments relating to securities owned by the Corporation may be executed in the name of and on behalf of the Corporation by the President or any Vice President or any other officer authorized to do so by the Board of Directors and any such officer may, in the name of and on behalf of the Corporation, take all such action as any such officer may deem advisable to vote in person or by proxy at any meeting of security holders of any corporation in which the Corporation may own securities and at any such meeting shall possess and may exercise any and all rights and power incident to the ownership of such securities and which, as the owner thereof, the Corporation might have exercised and possessed if present.  The Board of Directors may, by resolution, from time to time confer like powers upon any other person or persons.
Voting Securities Owned by the Corporation
5.1
.  Every holder of stock in the Corporation shall be entitled to have a certificate signed by, or in the name of the Corporation (i) by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, or the President or a Vice President and (ii) by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer, or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Corporation, certifying the number of shares owned by such stockholder in the Corporation.
Form of Certificates
5.2
.  Any or all of the signatures on a certificate may be a facsimile.  In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if such person were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue.
Signatures
5.3
.  The Board of Directors may direct a new certificate to be issued in place of any certificate theretofore issued by the Corporation alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed, upon the making of an affidavit of that fact by the person claiming the certificate of stock to be lost, stolen or destroyed.  When authorizing such issue of a new certificate, the Board of Directors may, in its discretion and as a condition precedent to the issuance thereof, require the owner of such lost, stolen or destroyed certificate, or such owner's legal representative, to advertise the same in such manner as the Board of Directors shall require and/or to give the Corporation a bond in such sum as it may direct as indemnity against any claim that may be made against the Corporation on account of the alleged loss, theft or destruction of such certificate or the issuance of such new certificate.
Lost Certificates
5.4
.  Stock of the Corporation shall be transferable in the manner prescribed by applicable law and in these Bylaws.  Transfers of stock shall be made on the books of the Corporation only by the person named in the certificate or by such person's attorney lawfully constituted in writing and upon the surrender of the certificate therefor, properly endorsed for transfer and payment of all necessary transfer taxes; provided, however, that such surrender and endorsement or payment of taxes shall not be required in any case in which the officers of the Corporation shall determine to waive such requirement.  Every certificate exchanged, returned or surrendered to the Corporation shall be marked "Cancelled," with the date of cancellation, by the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the Corporation or the transfer agent thereof.  No transfer of stock shall be valid as against the Corporation for any purpose until it shall have been entered in the stock records of the Corporation by an entry showing from and to whom transferred.
Transfers
5.5
.  In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights or the stockholders entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock, or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted, and which record date shall be not more than sixty (60) days prior to such action.  If no record date is fixed, the record date for determining stockholders for any such purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution relating thereto.
Dividend Record Date
5.6
.  The Corporation shall be entitled to recognize the exclusive right of a person registered on its books as the owner of shares to receive dividends, and to vote as such owner, and to hold liable for calls and assessments a person registered on its books as the owner of shares, and shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in such share or shares on the part of any other person, whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof, except as otherwise required by law.
Record Owners
5.7
 The Corporation may from time to time maintain one or more transfer offices or agencies and registry offices or agencies at such place or places as may be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors.
Transfer and Registry Agents.
6.1
.  Whenever written notice is required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, to be given to any director, member of a committee or stockholder, such notice may be given by mail, addressed to such director, member of a committee or stockholder, at such person's address as it appears on the records of the Corporation, with postage thereon prepaid, and such notice shall be deemed to be given at the time when the same shall be deposited in the United States mail.  Written notice may also be given personally or by telegram, telex, cable or otherwise electronically as permitted by law.
Notices
6.2
.  Whenever any notice is required by applicable law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, to be given to any director, member of a committee or stockholder, a waiver thereof in writing, signed by the person or persons entitled to notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent thereto. Attendance of a person at a meeting, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting, except where the person attends the meeting for the express purpose of objecting at the beginning of the meeting to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened.  Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any Annual or Special Meeting or any regular or special meeting of the directors or members of a committee of directors need be specified in any written waiver of notice unless so required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws.
Waivers of Notice
7.1
.  Dividends upon the capital stock of the Corporation, subject to the requirements of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "DGCL") and the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation, if any, may be declared by the Board of Directors at any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors (or any action by written consent in lieu thereof in accordance with Section 3.8 hereof), and may be paid in cash, in property, or in shares of the Corporation's capital stock.  Before payment of any dividend, there may be set aside out of any funds of the Corporation available for dividends such sum or sums as the Board of Directors from time to time, in its absolute discretion, deems proper as a reserve or reserves to meet contingencies, or for purchasing any of the shares of capital stock, warrants, rights, options, bonds, debentures, notes, scrip or other securities or evidences of indebtedness of the Corporation, or for equalizing dividends, or for repairing or maintaining any property of the Corporation, or for any proper purpose, and the Board of Directors may modify or abolish any such reserve.
Dividends
7.2
.  All checks or demands for money and notes of the Corporation shall be signed by such officer or officers or such other person or persons as the Board of Directors may from time to time designate.
Disbursements
7.3
.  The fiscal year of the Corporation shall end on December 31 of each year unless changed by resolution of the Board of Directors.
Fiscal Year
7.4
.  The corporate seal shall have inscribed thereon the name of the Corporation, the year of its organization and the words "Corporate Seal, Delaware".  The seal may be used by causing it or a facsimile thereof to be impressed or affixed or reproduced or otherwise.
Corporate Seal
8.1
.  Subject to Section 8.3 of this Article VIII, the Corporation shall indemnify any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (other than an action by or in the right of the Corporation), by reason of the fact that such person is or was a director or officer of the Corporation, or is or was a director or officer of the Corporation serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, against expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by such person in connection with such action, suit or proceeding if such person acted in good faith and in a manner such person reasonably believed to be in or not
Power to Indemnify in Actions, Suits or Proceedings other than Those by or in the Right of the Corporation
opposed to the best interests of the Corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe such person's conduct was unlawful.  The termination of any action, suit or proceeding by judgment, order, settlement, conviction, or upon a plea of nolo contendere or its equivalent, shall not, of itself, create a presumption that the person did not act in good faith and in a manner which such person reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had reasonable cause to believe that such person's conduct was unlawful.
8.2
.  Subject to Section 8.3 of this Article VIII, the Corporation shall indemnify any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action or suit by or in the right of the Corporation to procure a judgment in its favor by reason of the fact that such person is or was a director or officer of the Corporation, or is or was a director or officer of the Corporation serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, against expenses (including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred by such person in connection with the defense or settlement of such action or suit if such person acted in good faith and in a manner such person reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation; except that no indemnification shall be made in respect of any claim, issue or matter as to which such person shall have been adjudged to be liable to the Corporation unless and only to the extent that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware or the court in which such action or suit was brought shall determine upon application that, despite the adjudication of liability but in view of all the circumstances of the case, such person is fairly and reasonably entitled to indemnity for such expenses which the Court of Chancery or such other court shall deem proper.
Power to Indemnify in Actions, Suits or Proceedings by or in the Right of the Corporation
8.3
.  Any indemnification under this Article VIII (unless ordered by a court) shall be made by the Corporation only as authorized in the specific case upon a determination that indemnification of the present or former director or officer is proper in the circumstances because such person has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in Sections 8.1 and 8.2, as the case may be. Such determination shall be made, with respect to a person who is a director or officer at the time of such determination, (i) by a majority vote of the directors who are not parties to such action, suit or proceeding, even though less than a quorum, or (ii) by a committee of such directors designated by a majority vote of such directors, even though less than a quorum, or (iii) if there are no such directors, or if such directors so direct, by independent legal counsel in a written opinion or (iv) by the stockholders.  Such determination shall be made, with respect to former directors and officers, by any person or persons having the authority to act on the matter on behalf of the Corporation.  To the extent, however, that a present or former director or officer of the Corporation has been successful on the merits or otherwise in defense of any action, suit or proceeding described above, or in defense of any claim, issue or matter therein, such person shall be indemnified against expenses (including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred by such person in connection therewith, without the necessity of authorization in the specific case.
Authorization of Indemnification
8.4
.  For purposes of any determination under Section 8.3, a person shall be deemed to have acted in good faith and in a manner such person reasonably
Good Faith Defined
believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the corporation, or, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, to have had no reasonable cause to believe such person's conduct was unlawful, if such person's action is based on the records or books of account of the Corporation or another enterprise, or on information supplied to such person by the officers of the Corporation or another enterprise in the course of their duties, or on the advice of legal counsel for the Corporation or another enterprise or on information or records given or reports made to the Corporation or another enterprise by an independent certified public accountant or by an appraiser or other expert selected with reasonable care by the Corporation or another enterprise.  The provisions of this Section 8.4 shall not be deemed to be exclusive or to limit in any way the circumstances in which a person may be deemed to have met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in Sections 8.1 and 8.2, as the case may be.
8.5
.  Notwithstanding any contrary determination in the specific case under Section 8.3, and notwithstanding the absence of any determination thereunder, any director or officer may apply to the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware or any other court of competent jurisdiction in the State of Delaware for indemnification to the extent otherwise permissible under Sections 8.1 and 8.2.  The basis of such indemnification by a court shall be a determination by such court that indemnification of the director or officer is proper in the circumstances because such person has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in Sections 8.1 and 8.2, as the case may be.  Neither a contrary determination in the specific case under Section 8.3 nor the absence of any determination thereunder shall be a defense to such application or create a presumption that the director or officer seeking indemnification has not met any applicable standard of conduct.  Notice of any application for indemnification pursuant to this Section 8.5 shall be given to the Corporation promptly upon the filing of such application.  If successful, in whole or in part, the director or officer seeking indemnification shall also be entitled to be paid the expense of prosecuting such application.
Indemnification by a Court
8.6
.  Expenses (including attorneys' fees) incurred by a director or officer in defending any civil, criminal, administrative or investigative action, suit or proceeding may be paid by the Corporation in advance of the final disposition of such action, suit or proceeding upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of such director or officer to repay such amount if it shall ultimately be determined that such person is not entitled to be indemnified by the Corporation as authorized in this Article VIII.  Such expenses (including attorneys' fees) incurred by former directors and officers or other employees and agents may be so paid upon such terms and conditions, if any, as the Corporation deems appropriate.
Expenses Payable in Advance
8.7
. The indemnification and advancement of expenses provided by, or granted pursuant to, this Article VIII shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which those seeking indemnification or advancement of expenses may be entitled under the Certificate of Incorporation, these Bylaws, any agreement, a vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise, both as to action in such person's official capacity and as to action in another capacity while holding such office, it being the policy of the Corporation that indemnification of the persons specified in Sections 8.1 and 8.2 shall be made to the fullest extent permitted by law.  The provisions of this Article VIII shall not be deemed to preclude the indemnification of any person who is not specified in
Nonexclusivity of Indemnification and Advancement of Expenses
Sections 8.1 and 8.2 but whom the Corporation has the power or obligation to indemnify under the provisions of the DGCL, or otherwise.
8.8
.  The Corporation may purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person who is or was a director or officer of the Corporation, or is or was a director or officer of the Corporation serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any liability asserted against such person and incurred by such person in any such capacity, or arising out of such person's status as such, whether or not the Corporation would have the power or the obligation to indemnify such person against such liability under the provisions of this Article VIII.
Insurance
8.9
.  For purposes of this Article VIII, references to "the Corporation" shall include, in addition to the resulting corporation, any constituent corporation (including any constituent of a constituent) absorbed in a consolidation or merger which, if its separate existence had continued, would have had power and authority to indemnify its directors or officers, so that any person who is or was a director or officer of such constituent corporation, or is or was a director or officer of such constituent corporation serving at the request of such constituent corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, shall stand in the same position under the provisions of this Article VIII with respect to the resulting or surviving corporation as such person would have with respect to such constituent corporation if its separate existence had continued.  The term "other enterprise" as used in this Article VIII shall mean any other corporation or any partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise of which such person is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent.  For purposes of this Article VIII, references to "fines" shall include any excise taxes assessed on a person with respect to an employee benefit plan; and references to "serving at the request of the Corporation" shall include any service as a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation which imposes duties on, or involves services by, such director or officer with respect to an employee benefit plan, its participants or beneficiaries; and a person who acted in good faith and in a manner such person reasonably believed to be in the interest of the participants and beneficiaries of an employee benefit plan shall be deemed to have acted in a manner "not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation" as referred to in this Article VIII.
Certain Definitions
8.10
.  The indemnification and advancement of expenses provided by, or granted pursuant to, this Article VIII shall, unless otherwise provided when authorized or ratified, continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director or officer and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors and administrators of such a person.
Survival of Indemnification and Advancement of Expenses
8.11
.  The Corporation may, to the extent authorized from time to time by the Board of Directors, provide rights to indemnification and to the advancement of expenses to employees and agents of the Corporation similar to those conferred in this Article VIII to directors and officers of the Corporation.
Indemnification of Employees and Agents
9.1
.  These Bylaws may be altered, amended or repealed, in whole or in part, or new Bylaws may be adopted by the stockholders or by the Board of Directors; provided, however, that notice of such alteration, amendment, repeal or adoption of new Bylaws be contained in the notice of such meeting of the stockholders or Board of Directors, as the case may be. All such amendments must be approved by either the holders of at least a majority of the outstanding capital stock entitled to vote thereon or by a majority of the entire Board of Directors then in office.
Amendments
9.2
.  As used in this Article IX and in these Bylaws generally, the term "entire Board of Directors" means the total number of directors which the Corporation would have if there were no vacancies.
Entire Board of Directors
Adopted as of: May 18, 2010


