FILE:SWN/SWN-8K-20100902161225.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
        
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
       
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
       
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
       
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Section 5 - Corporate Governance and Management
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
(d)  On August 30, 2010, the Board of Directors of Southwestern Energy Company (the "Company") elected Alan H. Stevens and Greg D. Kerley as directors of the Company.  Messrs. Stevens and Kerley were each elected for a term expiring at the annual meeting of stockholders in 2011, at which time their continued service will be subject to stockholder approval.  With the election of Messrs. Stevens and Kerley, the Board of Directors has nine (9) members.
  
The selection of each of Messrs. Stevens and Kerley was not pursuant to any arrangement or understanding between him and any other person.  Neither Mr. Stevens nor Mr. Kerley have been appointed to serve on any of the committees of the Board of Directors and are not expected to be so appointed at this time.
 
There are no transactions between Mr. Stevens and the Company that are required to be reported under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.  Other than compensation arrangements relating to Mr. Kerley's position as the Company's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, all of which have been previously disclosed as required pursuant to Item 402 of Regulation S-K, there are no transactions between Mr. Kerley and the Company that are required to be reported under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
In connection with his election as an independent director, Mr. Stevens will receive a pro-rated annual cash retainer of $35,753 over the remainder of 2010 term.  In addition, on September 1, 2010, Mr. Stevens received from the Company 1,350 nonqualified stock options with an exercise price of $32.72 that will vest ratably over three years from the date of grant and 700 shares of restricted stock that will vest ratably over a period of four years from the date of grant.
 
Section 9 - Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
 
NEWS RELEASE  
Houston, Texas  September 2, 2010...The Board of Directors of Southwestern Energy Company (NYSE: SWN) announced today that, effective August 30, 2010, it  elected two new directors, Mr. Alan H. Stevens and Mr. Gregory D. Kerley.  Messrs. Stevens and Kerley were each elected for a term expiring at the annual meeting of stockholders in 2011, at which time their continued service will be subject to stockholder approval. With the election of Messrs. Stevens and Kerley, the Board of Directors has nine (9) members.
Mr. Stevens, who has been appointed as an independent director, has an extensive background in domestic and international oil and gas exploration and production.  He has over 37 years of experience in various managerial, geological and geophysical positions at Occidental Petroleum Company, Tenneco Oil Company and Exxon Corporation.  Mr. Stevens is also a former President and Chief Operating Officer of the companys subsidiaries, Southwestern Energy Production Company and SEECO, Inc.,  positions from which he retired in 2001. He received both a Bachelor of Science degree and a Master of Science degree in Geological Engineering from Michigan Technological University, and attended the UCLA Executive Management Program.
Mr. Kerley currently serves as the company's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and has over 30 years of experience in the oil and gas industry.  Prior to joining the company in 1990, he held various financial and accounting positions at Agate Petroleum, Inc. and Arthur Andersen LLP. Mr. Kerley graduated from Oklahoma State University with a Bachelor of Science degree in Accounting.
Southwestern Energy Company is an integrated company whose wholly-owned subsidiaries are engaged in oil and gas exploration and production, natural gas gathering and marketing. Additional information on the company can be found on the Internet at .
http://www.swn.com
Contact:
Brad D. Sylvester, CFA
Vice President, Investor Relations
 
(281) 618-4897
 
 
 
 
 


