FILE:SWN/SWN-8K-20100225172717.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
       
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
       
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
       
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
       
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Section 1  Registrant's Business and Operations
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
Reference is made to Item 1 of Amendment No. 3 to the Registration Statement on Form 8-A of Southwestern Energy Company (the "") filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 9, 2009 relating to the Second Amended and Restated Rights Agreement (the ""), dated as of April 9, 2009, between the Company and Computershare Trust Company, N.A. (the "").
Company
Rights Agreement
Rights Agent
On February 25, 2010, the Company and the Rights Agent entered into an amendment (the "") to the Rights Agreement, to be effective on February 26, 2010.  Pursuant to the Amendment, the Final Expiration Date of the Rights (each as defined in the Rights Agreement) was advanced from April 8, 2019 to February 26, 2010.  As a result of the Amendment, as of 5:00 P.M., New York City time, on February 26, 2010, the Rights will no longer be outstanding and will not be exercisable and the Rights Agreement will be terminated and of no further force and effect.
Amendment
 
The Amendment is filed as to this Current Report on Form 8-K, which is incorporated herein by reference.  The foregoing description of the Amendment does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Amendment.  A copy of the Company's press release announcing the Board of Director's approval of the Amendment is attached hereto as .
Exhibit 4.1
Exhibit 99.1
 
Section 3  Securities and Trading Markets
Item 3.03 Material Modification to Rights of Security Holders.
 
See the information set forth under "Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement" of this Current Report on Form 8-K, which is incorporated by reference into this Item 3.03.
Section 5  Corporate Governance and Management
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
On February 24, 2010, the Board of Directors amended and restated the Company's Bylaws.  The only change effected by the adoption of the amended and restated Bylaws (the "") was to amend Article III, Section 3.1 of the Bylaws to add the director resignation policy included in the Company's newly revised Corporate Governance Guidelines that were also approved by the Board of Directors on February 24, 2010.  Pursuant to the Amended and Restated Bylaws and the revised Corporate Governance Guidelines, a nominee for director in an uncontested election who receives a greater number of votes "withheld" from his or her election than votes "for" such election is now required to submit an offer of resignation. The Amended and Restated Bylaws are filed as Exhibit 3.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K, which is incorporated herein by reference.  The foregoing description of the Amended and Restated Bylaws does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Amended and Restated Bylaws.  
Amended and Restated Bylaws
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

 
This First Amendment to the Second Amended and Restated Rights Agreement (this "") is made effective as of the 26 day of February, 2010.  This First Amendment is an amendment to the Second Amended and Restated Rights Agreement, dated as of April 9, 2009, (the ""), between Southwestern Energy Company, a Delaware corporation (the ""), and Computershare Trust Company, N.A., a federally chartered trust company (the "").  Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings set forth in the Rights Agreement.
First Amendment
th
Rights Agreement
Company
Rights Agent
A.  The Company and the Rights Agent previously entered into the Rights Agreement for the purpose of specifying the terms and conditions of the Rights.
B.  Section 27 of the Rights Agreement provides, among other things, that, until the Stock Acquisition Date, the Company may, and the Rights Agent shall, if directed by the Company, make any supplement or amendment with respect to the Rights Agreement without the approval of any holders of certificates representing shares of Common Stock, and that upon the delivery of a certificate from an appropriate officer of the Company which states that such supplement or amendment is in compliance with the terms of Section 27 of the Rights Agreement, the Rights Agent shall execute such supplement or amendment.
C.  The Stock Acquisition Date has not occured as of the date hereof.
D.  The Company and the Rights Agent desire to amend the Rights Agreement as set forth herein.
E.  The Company has delivered to the Rights Agent, concurrently with the execution and delivery of this First Amendment, a certificate from an appropriate officer of the Company stating that this First Amendment complies with Section 27 of the Rights Agreement.
Accordingly, in consideration of the premises and the mutual agreements herein set forth, the parties hereby agree as follows:
, the parties hereto agree as follows:
NOW THEREFORE
1.  Section 7(a) of the Rights Agreement is hereby amended and restated to read in its entirety as follows:
"Subject to Section 7(e) hereof, at any time after the Distribution Date the registered holder of any Rights Certificate may exercise the Rights evidenced thereby (except as otherwise provided herein including the restrictions on exercisability set forth in Section 9(c), Section 11(a)(iii) and Section 23(a) hereof) in whole or in part upon surrender of the Rights Certificate, with the form of election to purchase and the certificate on the reverse side thereof properly completed and duly executed, to the Rights Agent at the office of the Rights Agent designated for such purpose, together with payment of the aggregate Purchase Price with respect to the total number of one one-thousandths of a share of Preferred Stock (or other securities, cash or other assets, as the case may be) as to which such surrendered Rights are then exercisable, and an amount equal to any tax or charge required to be paid under Section 9(e), at or prior to the earlier of (i) 5:00 P.M., New York City time, on February 26, 2010, or such earlier or later date as may be established by the Board prior to the expiration of the Rights (such date, as it may be extended by the Board, the "Final Expiration Date"), and (ii) the time at which the Rights are redeemed or exchanged as provided in Section 23 and Section 24 hereof (the earlier of (i) and (ii) being herein referred to as the "Expiration Date"). Except for those provisions herein which expressly survive the termination of this Agreement, this Agreement shall terminate upon the earlier of the Expiration Date and such time as all outstanding Rights have been exercised hereunder (other than Rights which have become null and void pursuant to the provisions of Section 7(e) hereof)."
 
2.  The Exhibits to the Rights Agreement shall be deemed amended and restated to reflect this First Amendment, including all necessary and conforming changes.
3.  This First Amendment shall be effective upon execution by the parties hereto and, except as set forth herein, the Rights Agreement shall remain in full force and effect and shall be otherwise unaffected hereby. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein or in the Rights Agreement, each of the Company and the Rights Agent hereby acknowledges and agrees that at 5:00 P.M., New York City time, on the Final Expiration Date (as amended hereby), the Rights Agreement shall terminate and be of no further force and effect.
4.  This First Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts and each of such counterparts shall for all purposes be deemed to be an original, and all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
5.  This First Amendment shall be deemed to be a contract made under the laws of the State of Delaware and for all purposes will be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of such State applicable to contracts made and to be performed entirely within such State. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this First Amendment to be duly executed, this 25 day of February, 2010.
th
  
  
  
  
  
SOUTHWESTERN ENERGY COMPANY   
  
By:  
/s/ GREG D. KERLEY   
 
  
Name:  Greg D. Kerley
  
Title:  Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer 
 
  
COMPUTERSHARE TRUST COMPANY, N.A., as Rights Agent   
  
By:  
/s/ DENNIS V. MOCCIA
  
Name:   Dennis V. Moccia
  
Title:   Manager, Contract Administration

NEWS RELEASE  
Houston, Texas  February 25, 2010...Southwestern Energy Company (NYSE: SWN) today announced that the company has amended its bylaws and corporate governance guidelines to establish a new policy that now requires a nominee for director in an uncontested election who receives a greater number of votes "withheld" from his or her election than votes "for" such election to submit an offer of resignation.  The company's corporate governance guidelines have also been amended to reflect additional improvements recently adopted by the Board, including stock ownership guidelines for directors.  The Board of Directors also recently established stock ownership guidelines for the company's senior executives.
"The decision to implement these governance changes reflects our commitment to having sound corporate governance policies and practices and bolsters what we believe is an already strong corporate governance platform.  These enhancements will ensure that the company continues to be governed in the best interests of its stockholders," said Steve Mueller, President and Chief Executive Officer of Southwestern Energy.
Separately, the company's Board of Directors also voted to accelerate the expiration of the company's current shareholder rights plan, which was scheduled to expire in April 2019, to be effective as of 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on February 26, 2010. 
"With respect to rights plan, the board of directors regularly evaluates the effectiveness of and need for a rights plan and has determined that the plan is unnecessary at this time," Mr. Mueller stated.  "The Board of Directors will continue to make such evaluations in the future and will take such actions that it determines in the exercise of its fiduciary duties to be necessary or advisable in order to protect the interests of our stockholders."
Southwestern Energy Company is an integrated company whose wholly-owned subsidiaries are engaged in oil and gas exploration and production, natural gas gathering and marketing. Additional information on the company can be found on the Internet at .
http://www.swn.com
All statements, other than historical financial information, may be deemed to be forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements that address activities, outcomes and other matters that should or may occur in the future, including, without limitation, statements regarding the financial position, business strategy, production and reserve growth and other plans and objectives for the company's future operations, are forward-looking statements. Although the company believes the expectations expressed in such forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, such statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual results or developments may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. The company has no obligation and makes no undertaking to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. They are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may affect the company's operations, markets, products, services and prices and cause its actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. In addition to any assumptions and other factors referred to specifically in connection with forward-looking statements, risks, uncertainties and factors that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those indicated in any forward-looking statement include, but are not limited to: the timing and extent of changes in market conditions and prices for natural gas and oil (including regional basis differentials); the company's ability to transport its production to the most favorable markets or at all; the timing and extent of the company's success in discovering, developing, producing and estimating reserves; the economic viability of, and the company's success in drilling, the company's large acreage position in the Fayetteville Shale play, overall as well as relative to other productive shale gas plays; the company's ability to fund the company's planned capital investments; the impact of federal, state and local government regulation, including any legislation relating to hydraulic fracturing, the climate or over-the-counter derivatives; the company's ability to determine the most effective and economic fracture stimulation for the Fayetteville Shale formation; the costs and availability of oil field personnel services and drilling supplies, raw materials, and equipment and services; the company's future property acquisition or divestiture activities; increased competition; the financial impact of accounting regulations and critical accounting policies; the comparative cost of alternative fuels; conditions in capital markets, changes in interest rates and the ability of the company's lenders to provide it with funds as agreed; credit risk relating to the risk of loss as a result of non-performance by the company's counterparties and any other factors listed in the reports the company has filed and may file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). For additional information with respect to certain of these and other factors, see the reports filed by the company with the SEC. The company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 


