FILE:SWN/SWN-8K-20120305191536.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
       
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
       
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
       
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
       
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Section 1 - Registrant's Business and Operations
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
Purchase Agreement
On February 29, 2012, Southwestern Energy Company (the "Company") and its subsidiaries, SEECO, Inc. ("SEECO"), Southwestern Energy Production Company ("SEPCO") and Southwestern Energy Services Company ("SES" and together with SEECO and SEPCO, the "Guarantors" ), entered into a Purchase Agreement (the "Purchase Agreement") with the initial purchasers thereunder (the "Initial Purchasers") relating to the offering by the Company of $1 billion aggregate principal amount of 4.10 % Senior Notes due 2022 fully and unconditionally guaranteed (the "Guarantees") by the Guarantors  (the "Notes").
The closing of the sale of the Notes occurred on March 5, 2012. The aggregate net proceeds to the Company from this offering, after the Initial Purchasers' discount and offering expenses, are estimated to be approximately $991 million.  The Company intends to use the net proceeds from the sale of the Notes to repay amounts outstanding under the Company's revolving credit facility and the remaining net proceeds will be used for general corporate purposes.
The Company offered and sold the Notes to the Initial Purchasers in reliance on the exemption from registration provided by Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933 (the "Securities Act").  The Initial Purchasers then sold the Notes to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to the exemption from registration provided by Rule 144A or pursuant to Regulation S under the Securities Act.  The Company relied on these exemptions from registration based in part on representations made by the Initial Purchasers in the Purchase Agreement. The Notes have not been registered under the Securities Act and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from registration requirements.
A copy of the Purchase Agreement is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1 and the foregoing description is a summary and is qualified in its entirety by reference to Exhibit 10.1.
Indenture
The Notes were issued under the Indenture dated as of March 5, 2012, by and among the Company, the Guarantors and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (the "Trustee").  The Notes will be the Company's senior unsecured obligations and will rank equally in right of payment with all of the Company's existing and future senior debt (including the Company's existing senior notes and the Company's revolving credit facility); rank senior to all of the Company's existing and future subordinated debt; be effectively subordinated to any future secured obligations to the extent of the value of the assets securing such obligations; and be structurally subordinated to all debt and other obligations of the Company's existing or future non-guarantor subsidiaries.  The Guarantees will rank equally in right of payment with all of the existing and future senior debt of the Guarantors; rank senior to all of the existing and future subordinated debt of the Guarantors; be effectively subordinated to any future secured obligations of the Guarantors to the extent of the value of the assets securing such obligations; and be structurally subordinated to all debt and other obligations of the subsidiaries of the Guarantors.  The Guarantees may be released under certain circumstances.  For example, if the Company exercises its legal or covenant defeasance option with respect to the Notes or if the Company satisfies its obligations under the Indenture, then the Guarantees will be released.   
The Indenture contains covenants that, among other things, restrict the ability of the Company and/or its subsidiaries to incur certain liens, to engage in sale and leaseback transactions and to merge, consolidate or sell assets.   Prior to December 15, 2021, the Notes are redeemable at the Company's election, in whole or in part, at any time at a redemption price equal to the greater of: (1) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed then outstanding; and (2) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the Notes to be redeemed (not including any portion of such payments of interest accrued to the date of redemption) discounted to the redemption date on a semiannual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) as determined in accordance with the Indenture , plus 35 basis points, plus, in either of such cases, accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption on the Notes to be redeemed.  On or after December 15, 2021, the
Company may redeem the Notes at any time, in whole or in part, at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date.
In addition, if a "change of control event" occurs, Note holders will have the option to require the Company to purchase all or any portion of the Notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the Notes to be purchased plus any accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the change of control date.
A copy of the Indenture is filed herewith as Exhibit 4.1.  A copy of the form of the Note is filed herewith as Exhibit 4.2.   The foregoing description of the Indenture and the Notes is a summary and is qualified in its entirety by reference to Exhibits 4.1 and 4.2.
Registration Rights Agreement
Under a registration rights agreement with the initial purchasers, the Company agrees to cause to become effective a registration statement with respect to an offer to exchange the Notes for other freely tradable notes, issued by the Company and that are registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission and that have substantially identical terms as the Notes, on or prior to the 270th calendar day following the issue of the Notes, and under certain circumstances, the Company will use its reasonable best efforts to file and cause to become effective a shelf registration statement relating to resales of the Notes. The Company will be obligated to pay additional interest on the Notes if it does not complete the exchange offer on or before the 330th calendar day after the issue date or, if required, the shelf registration statement is not declared effective on or before the 330th calendar day after the issue date.
A copy of the Registration Rights Agreement is filed herewith as Exhibit 4.3. The description of the Registration Rights Agreement in this report is a summary and is qualified in its entirety by the terms of the Registration Rights Agreement.
This Current Report on Form 8-K does not constitute an offer to sell, or a solicitation of an offer to buy, any security and shall not constitute an offer, solicitation or sale in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful.
 
Section 2 - Financial Information
I
tem 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of the Registrant.
The description of the Indenture and the Notes set forth under the heading "Indenture" in Item 1.01 of this Form 8-K is incorporated by reference herein.  
 
Section 9 - Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) The following exhibits are filed as part of this report:
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXECUTION VERSION
TABLE OF CONTENTS ARTICLE I
DEFINITIONS AND INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE
Section 1.1.
Definitions
1
Section 1.2.
Incorporation by Reference of Trust Indenture Act
18
Section 1.3.
Rules of Construction
18
ARTICLE II
THE NOTES
Section 2.1.
Form and Dating
19
Section 2.2.
Execution and Authentication
20
Section 2.3.
Registrar and Paying Agent
21
Section 2.4.
Paying Agent to Hold Money in Trust
21
Section 2.5.
Holder Lists
22
Section 2.6.
Global Note Provisions
22
Section 2.7.
Legends
23
Section 2.8.
Transfer and Exchange
23
Section 2.9.
Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost or Stolen Notes
30
Section 2.10.
Temporary Notes
30
Section 2.11.
Cancellation
30
Section 2.12.
Defaulted Interest
31
Section 2.13.
Additional Interest Under the Registration Rights Agreement
31
Section 2.14.
CUSIP or ISIN Numbers
32
Section 2.15.
Additional Notes
32
ARTICLE III
COVENANTS
Section 3.1.
Payment of Notes
32
Section 3.2.
Maintenance of Office or Agency
33
Section 3.3.
Maintenance of Existence
33
Section 3.4.
Payment of Taxes
33
Section 3.5.
Compliance Certificate
34
Section 3.6.
Further Instruments and Acts
34
Section 3.7.
Limitation on Liens
34
Section 3.8.
Limitation on Sale and Leaseback Transactions
34
Section 3.9.
Offer to Repurchase Upon Change of Control Event
35
ARTICLE IV
SUCCESSOR COMPANY
Section 4.1.
Merger, Consolidation or Sale of Assets
36
Section 4.2.
Successor Company Substituted
36
 
ARTICLE V
OPTIONAL REDEMPTIONS OF NOTES
Section 5.1.
Optional Redemptions
37
Section 5.2.
Election to Redeem
37
Section 5.3.
Notice of Redemption
37
Section 5.4.
Selection of Notes to Be Redeemed in Part
38
Section 5.5.
Deposit of Redemption Price
39
Section 5.6.
Notes Payable on Redemption Date
39
Section 5.7.
Unredeemed Portions of Partially Redeemed Note
39
ARTICLE VI
DEFAULTS AND REMEDIES
Section 6.1.
Events of Default
40
Section 6.2.
Acceleration
40
Section 6.3.
Other Remedies
41
Section 6.4.
Rescinding Acceleration; Waiver of Past Defaults
41
Section 6.5.
Control by Majority
42
Section 6.6.
Limitation on Suits
42
Section 6.7.
Rights of Holders to Receive Payment
42
Section 6.8.
Collection Suit by Trustee
42
Section 6.9.
Trustee May File Proofs of Claim, etc
43
Section 6.10.
Priorities
43
Section 6.11.
Undertaking for Costs
44
ARTICLE VII
TRUSTEE
Section 7.1.
Duties of Trustee
44
Section 7.2.
Rights of Trustee
45
Section 7.3.
Individual Rights of Trustee
46
Section 7.4.
Trustee's Disclaimer
47
Section 7.5.
Notice of Defaults
47
Section 7.6.
Reports by Trustee to Holders
47
Section 7.7.
Compensation and Indemnity
47
Section 7.8.
Replacement of Trustee
48
Section 7.9.
Successor Trustee by Merger
49
Section 7.10.
Eligibility; Disqualification
49
Section 7.11.
Preferential Collection of Claims Against Company
50
ARTICLE VIII
DEFEASANCE; DISCHARGE OF INDENTURE
Section 8.1.
Legal Defeasance and Covenant Defeasance
50
Section 8.2.
Conditions to Defeasance
51
Section 8.3.
Application of Trust Money
52
Section 8.4.
Repayment to Company
52
Section 8.5.
Indemnity for U.S. Government Obligations
52
Section 8.6.
Reinstatement
52
Section 8.7.
Satisfaction and Discharge
53
ARTICLE IX
AMENDMENTS
Section 9.1.
Without Consent of Holders
54
Section 9.2.
With Consent of Holders
55
Section 9.3.
Compliance with Trust Indenture Act
56
Section 9.4.
Revocation and Effect of Consents and Waivers
56
Section 9.5.
Notation on or Exchange of Notes
56
Section 9.6.
Trustee to Sign Amendments and Supplements
56
ARTICLE X
NOTE GUARANTEES
Section 10.1.
Note Guarantees
57
Section 10.2.
Limitation on Liability; Termination, Release and Discharge
58
Section 10.3.
Right of Contribution
59
Section 10.4.
No Subrogation
59
ARTICLE XI
MISCELLANEOUS
Section 11.1.
Trust Indenture Act Controls
60
Section 11.2.
Notices
60
Section 11.3.
Communication by Holders with Other Holders
61
Section 11.4.
Certificate and Opinion as to Conditions Precedent
61
Section 11.5.
Statements Required in Certificate or Opinion
61
Section 11.6.
Rules by Trustee, Paying Agent and Registrar
61
Section 11.7.
Legal Holidays
61
Section 11.8.
Governing Law, etc.
62
Section 11.9.
No Recourse Against Others
62
Section 11.10.
Successors
63
Section 11.11.
Duplicate and Counterpart Originals
63
Section 11.12.
Severability
63
Section 11.13.
Qualification of Indenture
63
Section 11.14.
Table of Contents; Headings
63
Section 11.15.
PATRIOT ACT
63
EXHIBIT A
FORM OF FACE OF NOTE
EXHIBIT B
FORM OF CERTIFICATE FOR TRANSFER TO QIB
EXHIBIT C
FORM OF CERTIFICATE FOR TRANSFER PURSUANT TO REGULATION S
EXHIBIT D
FORM OF CERTIFICATE FOR TRANSFER PURSUANT TO RULE 144
INDENTURE, dated as of March 5, 2012, between Southwestern Energy Company, a Delaware corporation (the ""), SEECO, Inc., Southwestern Energy Production Company and Southwestern Energy Services Company, each an Arkansas corporation, as Note Guarantors, and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., a national banking association, (the ""), as Trustee.
Company
Trustee
Each party agrees as follows for the benefit of the other parties and for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders of the Company's 4.10% Senior Notes Due 2022 (each, a "," and collectively, the "") issued hereunder.
Note
Notes
ARTICLE I DEFINITIONS AND INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE
Section 1.1.
.
Definitions
 
"" means, at any time, all additional interest then owing under hereof or under the Registration Rights Agreement or any registration rights agreement applicable to any Additional Notes.
Additional Interest
Section 6.3(c)
"" means resolutions duly adopted by the Board of Directors of the Company and delivered to the Trustee in an Officers' Certificate providing for issuance of Additional Notes.
Additional Note Board Resolution
"" means a supplement to this Indenture duly executed and delivered by the Company and the Trustee pursuant to .
Additional Note Supplemental Indenture
Article IX
"" means the Company's Notes originally issued after the Issue Date pursuant to Section 2.15, except for Notes authenticated and delivered upon registration of, transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of other Notes pursuant to , , or hereof, as specified in the relevant Additional Note Board Resolutions or Additional Note Supplemental Indenture issued therefor in accordance with this Indenture.
Additional Notes
Section 2.8
2.9
3.9
5.7
"" means, with respect to any Redemption Date:
Adjusted Treasury Rate
(1)
the yield, under the heading which represents the average for the immediately preceding week, appearing in the most recently published statistical release designated "H.15(519)" or any successor publication which is published weekly by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and which establishes yields on actively traded United States Treasury securities adjusted to constant maturity under the caption "Treasury Constant Maturities," for the maturity corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue (if no maturity is within three months before or after the Remaining Life, yields for the two published maturities most closely corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue shall be determined and the Adjusted Treasury Rate shall be interpolated or extrapolated from such yields on a straight line basis, rounding to the nearest month); or
(2)
if such release (or any successor release) is not published during the week preceding the calculation date or does not contain such yields, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, calculated using a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption Date.
The Adjusted Treasury Rate shall be calculated on the third Business Day preceding the Redemption Date.
"" of any specified person means any other person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified person.  For purposes of this definition, "control" (including, with correlative meanings, the terms "controlling," "controlled by" and "under common control with"), as used with respect to any person, means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of such person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by agreement or otherwise.  No natural person who is an executive officer or director shall, solely by virtue of such position, be deemed to control such person.  
Affiliate
"" has the meaning assigned to it in Section 2.6(b).
Agent Members
"" has the meaning assigned to it in the definition "Trigger Period" below.
Announcement Date
"" means, with respect to any transfer or exchange of or for, or any tender or surrender of, beneficial interests in any Global Note, the rules and procedures of DTC, Euroclear and Clearstream Luxembourg that apply to such transfer, exchange, tender or surrender.
Applicable Procedures
"" means, in respect of a Sale and Leaseback Transaction, as at the time of determination, the present value (discounted at the interest rate borne by the Notes, compounded semiannually) of the total obligations of the lessee for rental payments during the remaining term of the lease included in such Sale and Leaseback Transaction (including any period for which such lease has been extended); , , that if such Sale and Leaseback Transaction results in a Capital Lease Obligation, the amount of indebtedness represented thereby will be determined in accordance with the definition of "Capital Lease Obligation" below.
Attributable Debt
provided
however
"" has the meaning assigned to it in Section 2.2(d).
Authenticating Agent
"" means Title 11, U.S. Code or any similar Federal, state or non-U.S. law for the relief of debtors.
Bankruptcy Law
"" means:
Bankruptcy Law Event of Default
(1)
the entry by a court of competent jurisdiction of:  (i) a decree or order for relief in respect of any Bankruptcy Party in an involuntary case or proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law or (ii) a decree or order (A) adjudging any Bankruptcy Party a bankrupt or insolvent, (B) approving as properly filed a petition seeking reorganization,
arrangement, adjustment or composition of, or in respect of, any Bankruptcy Party under any Bankruptcy Law, (C) appointing a Custodian of any Bankruptcy Party or of all or substantially all of the property of any Bankruptcy Party, or (D) ordering the winding-up or liquidation of the affairs of any Bankruptcy Party, and in each case, the continuance of any such decree or order for relief or any such other decree or order unstayed and in effect for a period of 60 consecutive calendar days; or
(2)
(i) the commencement by any Bankruptcy Party of a voluntary case or proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law or of any other case or proceeding to be adjudicated a bankrupt or insolvent, (ii) the consent by any Bankruptcy Party to the entry of a decree or order for relief in respect of any Bankruptcy Party in an involuntary case or proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law, (iii) the filing by any Bankruptcy Party of a petition or answer or consent seeking reorganization or relief under any Bankruptcy Law, (iv) the consent by any Bankruptcy Party to the filing of such petition or to the appointment of or taking possession by a Custodian of any Bankruptcy Party or of any substantial part of the property of any Bankruptcy Party, (v) the making by any Bankruptcy Party of an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or (vi) the approval by stockholders of any Bankruptcy Party of any plan or proposal for the liquidation or dissolution of any Bankruptcy Party.
"" means the Company or any Significant Subsidiary.
Bankruptcy Party
"" means, as to any Person, the board of directors, management committee or similar governing body of such Person or any duly authorized committee thereof.
Board of Directors
"" means, with respect to any Person, a copy of a resolution certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of such Person to have been duly adopted by the Board of Directors of such person and to be in full force and effect on the date of such certification.
Board Resolution
"" means a day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banking institutions are authorized or required by law or regulation to close in New York City.
Business Day
"" means an obligation that is required to be classified and accounted for as a capital lease for financial reporting purposes in accordance with GAAP, and the amount of indebtedness represented by such obligation shall be the capitalized amount of such obligation determined in accordance with GAAP; and the stated maturity thereof shall be the date of the last payment of rent or any other amount due under such lease prior to the first date upon which such lease may be terminated by the lessee without payment of a penalty.
Capital Lease Obligation
"" means, as to any Person, any and all shares, units of beneficial interests, rights to purchase, warrants, options, participations or other equivalents of or interests in (however designated) equity of such Person, including any preferred stock, but excluding any debt securities or other indebtedness convertible into such equity.
Capital Stock
"" means any Note issued in fully-registered certificated form (other than a Global Note), which shall be substantially in the form of , with appropriate legends as specified in Section 2.7 and .
Certificated Note
Exhibit A
Exhibit A
"" means the occurrence of any of the following:
Change of Control
(1)
any "person," as such term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act, becoming the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the voting power of the Voting Stock of the Company; that a transaction in which the Company becomes a Subsidiary of another Person shall not constitute a Change of Control if, immediately following such transaction, (a) the Persons who were stockholders of the Company immediately prior to such transactions continue to beneficially own, directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, 50% or more of the voting power of the outstanding Voting Stock of such other Person of whom the Company has become a Subsidiary and (b) no Person other than such other Person of whom the Company has become a Subsidiary beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of the voting power of the Voting Stock of the Company;
provided
(2)
the merger or consolidation of the Company with or into another Person or the merger of another Person with or into the Company, or the sale, lease or other disposition of all or substantially all the assets of the Company (determined on a consolidated basis) to another Person, other than (i) (A) a transaction following which in the case of a merger or consolidated transaction, holders of securities that represented 100% of the Voting Stock of the Company immediately prior to such transaction (or other securities into which such securities are converted as part of such merger or consolidation transaction) own directly or indirectly at least a majority of the voting power of the Voting Stock of the surviving Person (or any parent thereof) in such merger or consolidation transaction immediately after such transaction or (B) a transaction that would be permitted under the proviso to clause (1) of this definition of "Change of Control"; or (ii) in the case of a sale, lease or other disposition of assets transaction, a transaction in which each transferee becomes an obligor in respect of the Notes and a Subsidiary of the transferor of such assets; or
(3)
the adoption of a plan relating to the liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
"" means the occurrence of either of the following:
Change of Control Event
(1)
if the Notes do not have an Investment Grade Rating from both of the Rating Agencies on the first day of the Trigger Period, the Notes are downgraded by at least one rating category (e.g., from BB+ to BB or Ba1 to Ba2) from the applicable rating of the Notes on the first day of the Trigger Period by both of the Rating Agencies on any date during the Trigger Period; or
(2)
if the Notes have an Investment Grade Rating from both of the Rating Agencies on the first day of the Trigger Period, the Notes cease to have an Investment Grade Rating by both of the Rating Agencies on any date during the Trigger Period;
, , that for so long as any of the Company's Existing Senior Notes are outstanding, if the Company is required to offer to purchase any such Existing Senior Notes as a result of the occurrence of a Change of Control (as defined in such Existing Senior Notes), then the occurrence of such Change of Control shall constitute a Change of Control Event. For purposes of the foregoing, "" means the Company's 7% Senior Notes due 2018, the Company's 7.125% Senior Notes due 2017, the Company's 7.35% Senior Notes due 2017 and the Company's 7.15% Notes due 2018, outstanding on the Issue Date.
provided
however
Existing Senior Notes
If a Rating Agency is not providing a rating for the Notes at the commencement of the Trigger Period, a Change of Control Event shall be deemed to have occurred with respect to such Rating Agency as a result of the related Change of Control. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Change of Control Event will be deemed to have occurred in connection with any particular Change of Control unless and until such Change of Control has actually occurred.
"" means notice of a Change of Control Offer made pursuant to Section 3.9, which shall be mailed first-class, postage prepaid, to each record Holder as shown on the Note Register within 30 days following a Change of Control Event, with a copy to the Trustee, which notice shall govern the terms of the Change of Control Offer and shall state:
Change of Control Notice
(1)
that a Change of Control Event has occurred and that pursuant to , such Holder has the right to require the Company to repurchase all or any part of such Holder's Notes for the Change of Control Payment;
Section 3.9
(2)
the Change of Control Payment Date;
(3)
that any Notes or portions thereof not properly tendered will remain outstanding and continue to accrue interest;
(4)
that, unless the Company defaults in the payment of the Change of Control Payment with respect thereto, all Notes or portions thereof accepted for payment pursuant to the Change of Control Offer shall cease to accrue interest from and after the Change of Control Payment Date;
(5)
that any Holder electing to have any Notes or portions thereof purchased pursuant to a Change of Control Offer will be required to surrender such Notes (in accordance with the Applicable Procedures, if in global form), with the form entitled "Option of Holder to Elect Purchase" on the reverse of such Notes completed, to the Paying Agent at the address specified in the Change of Control Notice prior to the close of business on the Business Day preceding the Change of Control Payment Date;
(6)
that any Holder shall be entitled to withdraw its tendered Notes or portions thereof and such election to require the Company to purchase such Notes or portions thereof, that the Paying Agent receives, not later than the close of business on the Business Day preceding the Change of Control Payment Date, a telegram, telex, facsimile transmission or letter, setting forth the name of the Holder, the principal amount of Notes tendered for purchase, and a statement that such Holder is withdrawing such
provided
tendered Notes and such Holder's election to have such Notes or portions thereof purchased pursuant to the Change of Control Offer;
(7)
that any Holder electing to have Notes purchased pursuant to the Change of Control Offer must specify the principal amount that is being tendered for purchase, which principal amount must be $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 thereafter;
(8)
that any Holder of Notes whose Notes are being purchased only in part will be issued new Notes equal in principal amount to the unpurchased portion of the Notes surrendered, which unpurchased portion will be equal in principal amount to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 thereafter;
(9)
that the Trustee will return to the Holder of a Global Note that is being purchased in part, such Global Note with a notation on Schedule A thereof adjusting the principal amount thereof to be equal to the unpurchased portion of such Global Note;
(10)
the procedures determined by the Company, consistent with the Indenture, that a Holder must follow in order to have its Notes or any portion thereof purchased; and
(11)
any other information necessary to enable any Holder to tender Notes and to have such Notes purchased pursuant to Section 3.9.
"" has the meaning assigned to it in Section 3.9.
Change of Control Offer
"" has the meaning assigned to it in Section 3.9.
Change of Control Payment
"" means a Business Day no earlier than 30 calendar days nor later than 60 calendar days subsequent to the date that a Change of Control Notice is mailed (other than as may be required by law).
Change of Control Payment Date
"" means Clearstream Banking, socit anonyme, or the successor to its securities clearance and settlement operations.
Clearstream Luxembourg
"" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
"" means the party named as such in the introductory paragraph to this Indenture and its successors and assigns, including any Successor Company that becomes such in accordance with Article IV.
Company
"" has the meaning assigned to it in .
Company Order
Section 2.2(c)
"" means the United States Treasury security selected by an Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of such Notes ("").
Comparable Treasury Issue
Remaining Life
"" means, for any Redemption Date:
Comparable Treasury Price
(1)
the average of four Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations; or
(2)
if the Independent Investment Banker obtains fewer than four such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations.
"" means the Company's total assets as they appear on the Company's most recently prepared consolidated balance sheet as of the end of a fiscal quarter.
Consolidated Assets
"" means the office of the Trustee at which at any time its corporate trust business shall be principally administered, which office at the date hereof is located at 2 North LaSalle Street, Suite 1020, Chicago, Illinois 60602, Attention: Corporate Trust, or such other address as the Trustee may designate from time to time by notice to the Company, or the principal corporate trust office of any successor Trustee (or such other address as such successor Trustee may designate from time to time by notice to the Company).  For purposes of Section 2.3(c) and 3.2, the Corporate Trust Office shall be located at The Bank of New York Mellon, First Floor, 101 Barclay Street, New York, New York 10286.
Corporate Trust Office
"" has the meaning assigned to it in Section 8.1(c).
Covenant Defeasance
"" means one or more debt facilities (including, without limitation, the Revolving Credit Facility), in each case with banks, investment banks, insurance companies, mutual funds and/or other institutional lenders providing for revolving credit loans, term loans, receivables financing (including through the sale of receivables to such lenders or to special purpose entities formed to borrow from (or sell receivables to) such lenders against such receivables) or letters of credit, in each case, as amended, extended, restated, renewed, refunded, replaced or refinanced (in each case with credit facilities), supplemented or otherwise modified (in whole or in part and without limitation as to amount, terms, conditions, covenants and other provisions) from time to time.
Credit Facilities
"" means any receiver, trustee, assignee, liquidator, sequestrator or similar official under any Bankruptcy Law.
Custodian
"" means any event that is, or with the passage of time or the giving of notice or both would be, an Event of Default.
Default
"" has the meaning assigned to it in section 1 of the Form of Reverse Side of Note contained in .
Defaulted Interest
Exhibit A
"" means, in respect of any Regulation S Global Note (or any Certificated Note issued in respect thereof pursuant to ), the 40 consecutive days beginning on and including the later of (a) the day on which any Notes represented thereby are offered to persons other than distributors (as defined in Regulation S under the Securities Act) pursuant to Regulation S and (b) the issue date for such Notes.
Distribution Compliance Period
Section 2.6
"" means The Depository Trust Company, its nominees and their respective successors and assigns, or such other depositary institution hereinafter appointed by the Company that is a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act.
DTC
"" means Euroclear Bank S.A./N.V., as operator of the Euroclear System, or its successor in such capacity.
Euroclear
"" has the meaning assigned to it in Section 6.1.
Event of Default
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
"" means any of the Company's 4.10% Senior Notes Due 2022, guaranteed by the Note Guarantors, issued and authenticated pursuant to this Indenture in a Registered Exchange Offer in exchange for a like principal amount of Notes or Additional Notes originally issued pursuant to an exemption from registration under the Securities Act and with terms substantially identical in all material respects to such Notes or Additional Notes (except that the transfer restrictions pertaining to the Notes or Additional Notes will be modified or eliminated, as appropriate).
Exchange Note
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in the Registration Rights Agreement.
Exchange Offer Registration Statement
"" means all indebtedness for borrowed money owed or guaranteed by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries and any other indebtedness which, under GAAP, would appear as indebtedness on the Company's most recent consolidated balance sheet, which matures by its terms more than 12 months from the date of such consolidated balance sheet or which matures by its terms in less than 12 months but by its terms is renewable or extendible beyond 12 months from the date of such consolidated balance sheet at the option of the borrower.
Funded Debt
"" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board or in such other statements by such other entity as may be approved by a significant segment of the accounting profession, consistently applied.
GAAP
"" means any Note issued in fully-registered certificated form to DTC (or its nominee), as depositary for the beneficial owners thereof, which shall be substantially in the form of , with appropriate legends as specified in Section 2.7 and .
Global Note
Exhibit A
Exhibit A
"" has the meaning assigned to it in .
Guaranteed Obligations
Section 10.1(a)
"" means a Person in whose name a Note is registered in the Note Register.
Holder
"" means this Indenture as amended or supplemented from time to time, including the Exhibits hereto.
Indenture
"" means one of the Reference Treasury Dealers appointed by the Company.
Independent Investment Banker
"" means a Person who holds a beneficial interest in a Global Note through a Participant.
Indirect Participant
"" means J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria, S.A., BMO Capital Markets Corp., CIBC World Markets Corp., Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Comerica Securities, Inc., Fifth Third Securities, Inc., Goldman, Sachs & Co., KeyBanc Capital Markets, Inc., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Mitsubishi UFJ Securities (USA), Inc., Mizuho Securities USA Inc., RBC Capital Markets, LLC, RBS Securities Inc., UBS Securities, LLC, U.S. Bancorp Investments, Inc., Wells Fargo Securities, LLC.
Initial Purchasers
"" means March 15 and September 15 of each year, beginning on September 15, 2012.
Interest Payment Date
"" means a rating by any Rating Agency equal to or greater than (i) BBB- by S&P or (ii) Baa3 by Moody's, or (iii) the equivalent thereof under any new ratings system if the ratings system of either such agency shall be modified after the date hereof, or (iv) the equivalent rating or any other Ratings Agency selected by the Company as provided by the definition of Ratings Agency.
Investment Grade Rating
"" means March 5, 2012.
Issue Date
"" has the meaning assigned to it in Section 8.1(b).
Legal Defeasance
"" has the meaning assigned to it in Section 11.7.
Legal Holiday
"" means, with respect to any property or assets, any mortgage, pledge, lien, charge, security interest, conditional sale or other title retention agreement or other encumbrance of any nature whatsoever.
Lien
"" means March 15, 2022.
Maturity Date
"" means Moody's Investors Services, Inc. or any successor to the rating agency business thereof.
Moody's
"" means a person who is not a U.S. person, as defined in Regulation S.
Non-U.S. Person
"" means the custodian with respect to any Global Note appointed by DTC, or any successor Person thereto, and shall initially be the Trustee.
Note Custodian
"" means the guarantee of the Company's Obligations under this Indenture and the Notes by each Note Guarantor pursuant to Article X.
Note Guarantee
"" means, at any time, each person guaranteeing the Company's Obligations under this Indenture and the Notes at such time pursuant to Article X.
Note Guarantor
"" has the meaning assigned to it in Section 2.3(a).
Note Register
"" means any of the Company's 4.10% Senior Notes Due 2022 issued and authenticated pursuant to this Indenture and includes the Original Notes and any Additional Notes or Exchange Notes.
Notes
"" means any principal, interest, premium, penalties, fees, indemnifications, reimbursements, damages and other liabilities payable under the documentation governing any Notes.
Obligations
"" means, the chairman of the board, the chief executive officer, the president, the chief financial officer, any vice president, the treasurer, the controller or the secretary of the Company or a Note Guarantor, as the case may be.
Officer
"" means a certificate signed by two Officers or by an Officer and either an assistant treasurer or an assistant secretary of the Company or a Note Guarantor, as the case may be.
Officers' Certificate
"" means a written opinion of counsel, who, unless otherwise indicated in this Indenture, may be an employee of or counsel for the Company or its Subsidiaries or a Note Guarantor, and who shall be reasonably acceptable to the Trustee.
Opinion of Counsel
"" means any:
Ordinary Course Lien
(1)
Lien incurred in the ordinary course of business to secure the obtaining of advances or the payment of the deferred purchase price of property;
(2)
Lien created by any interest or title of a lessor under any lease entered into by the Company or any Subsidiary in the ordinary course of business and covering only the assets so leased;
(3)
Lien that is a contractual right of set-off (a) relating to the establishment of depository relations with banks not given in connection with the issuance of indebtedness, (b) relating to pooled deposits or sweep accounts to permit satisfaction of overdraft or similar obligations incurred in the ordinary course of business or (c) relating to purchase orders and other agreements entered in the ordinary course of business;
(4)
oil, gas or mineral leases arising in the ordinary course of business where the Lien arises from the rights of lessors;
(5)
customary initial deposits and margin deposits and any similar Lien attaching to commodity trading accounts or other brokerage accounts that are not for speculative purposes and arise in the ordinary course of business, including Swap Agreements, but only to the extent the Liens encumber cash, cash equivalents, securities, certificates of deposits or similar investments or accounts only containing such items;
(6)
Lien arising from the sale or other transfer in the ordinary course of business of (A) crude oil, natural gas, other petroleum hydrocarbons or other minerals in place for a period of time until, or in an amount such that, the purchaser or other transferee will realize therefrom a specified amount of money (however determined) or a specified amount of such minerals, or (B) any other interest in property of the character commonly referred to as a "production payment," "overriding royalty," "forward sale" or similar interest;
(7)
Lien in favor of the United States of America, any State, any foreign country or any department, agency, instrumentality or political subdivision of any such jurisdiction, to secure partial, progress, advance or other payments pursuant to any contract or statute or to secure any indebtedness incurred for the purpose of financing all or any part of the purchase price or cost of constructing, refurbishing, developing or improving any property subject thereto, including without limitation, any Lien to secure indebtedness of pollution control or industrial revenue bond type; and
(8)
Lien arising from any right which any municipal or governmental body or agency may have by virtue of any franchise, license, contract or statute to purchase, or designate a purchaser of or order the sale of, any property of the Company or any Subsidiary upon payment of reasonable compensation therefor or to terminate any franchise.
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.2(c).
Original Notes
"" means, as of the date of determination, all Notes theretofor authenticated and delivered under this Indenture, except:
Outstanding
(1)
Notes theretofor canceled by the Trustee or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation;
(2)
Notes, or portions thereof, for the payment, redemption or, in the case of a Change of Control Offer, purchase of which money in the necessary amount has been theretofor deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent (other than the Company, a Note Guarantor or an Affiliate of the Company) in trust or set aside and segregated in trust by the Company, a Note Guarantor, an Affiliate of the Company or a third party (if the Company, a Note Guarantor, such Affiliate of the Company or third party is acting as Paying Agent) for the Holders of such Notes; provided that, if Notes (or portions thereof) are to be redeemed or purchased, notice of such redemption or purchase has been duly given pursuant to this Indenture or provision therefor satisfactory to the Trustee has been made;
(3)
Notes which have been surrendered pursuant to Section 2.9 or in exchange for or in lieu of which other Notes have been authenticated and delivered pursuant to this Indenture, other than any such Notes in respect of which there shall have been presented to the Trustee proof satisfactory to it that such Notes are held by a bona fide purchaser in whose hands such Notes are valid obligations of the Company; and
(4)
solely to the extent provided in Article VIII, Notes which are subject to Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance as provided in Article VIII;
, , that in determining whether the Holders of the requisite aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Notes have given any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver hereunder, Notes owned by the Company, a Note Guarantor or any other obligor upon the Notes or any Affiliate of the Company or of such other obligor shall be disregarded and deemed not to be Outstanding, except that, in determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying upon any such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver, only Notes which a Trust Officer of the Trustee actually knows to be so owned shall be so disregarded.  Notes so owned which have been pledged in good faith may be regarded as Outstanding if the pledgee establishes to the satisfaction of the Trustee the pledgee's right so to act with respect to such Notes and that the pledgee is not the Company or any other obligor upon the Notes or any Affiliate of the Company or of such other obligor.
provided
however
"" means, with respect to DTC, Euroclear or Clearstream Luxembourg, a Person who has an account with DTC, Euroclear or Clearstream Luxembourg, respectively (and, with respect to DTC, shall include Euroclear and Clearstream Luxembourg).
Participant
"" has the meaning assigned to it in Section 2.3(a).
Paying Agent
"" means any Lien incurred, assumed or guaranteed that do not arise from indebtedness for borrowed money and, without limiting the foregoing, also do not apply to Liens on Principal Property:
Permitted Lien
(1)
(A) existing as of the date of this Indenture or (B) relating to a contract or arrangement that was entered into by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries prior to the date of this Indenture;
(2)
upon any Principal Property (including any related contract rights) existing at the time of acquisition thereof by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries (whether such acquisition is direct or by acquisition of stock, assets or otherwise, any such Lien is not incurred in contemplation of such acquisition);
provided
(3)
securing indebtedness under Credit Facilities of any Subsidiary of the Company that is not a Note Guarantor; that the aggregate principal amount of any indebtedness under such Credit Facilities shall not exceed $250.0 million at any time outstanding;
provided
(4)
upon or with respect to any property (including any related contract rights) acquired, constructed, refurbished or improved by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries (including, but not limited to, any Lien to secure all or any part of the cost of construction, alteration or repair of any building, equipment, facility or other improvement on, all or any part of such property, including any pipeline financing) after the date of this Indenture which are created, incurred or assumed contemporaneously with, or within 360 days after, the latest to occur of the acquisition (whether by acquisition of stock, assets or otherwise), completion of construction, refurbishment or
improvement, or the commencement of commercial operation, of such property (or, in the case of Liens on contract rights, the completion of construction or the commencement of commercial operation of the facility to which such contract rights relate, regardless of the date when the contract was entered into) to secure or provide for the payment of any part of the purchase price of such property or the cost of such construction, refurbishment or improvement; , , that in the case of any such construction, refurbishment or improvement, the Lien shall relate only to indebtedness reasonably incurred to finance such construction, refurbishment or improvement;
provided
however
(5)
securing indebtedness owing by any of the Company's Subsidiaries to the Company or to other Subsidiaries;
(6)
arising from the deposit of funds or securities in trust for the purpose of decreasing or defeasing indebtedness;
(7)
for the sole purpose of extending, renewing or replacing (or successive extensions, renewals or replacements), in whole or in part, any Lien referred to in the foregoing subsections (1), (2), (4), (6) or this subsection (7) of this definition of "Permitted Liens"; , , that the principal amount of indebtedness secured thereby shall not exceed the principal amount of indebtedness at the time of such extension, renewal or replacement, and that such extension, renewal or replacement shall be limited to all or part of the property subject to the Lien so extended, renewed or replaced (plus refurbishment of or improvements on or to such property); and
provided
however
(8)
any Ordinary Course Lien arising, but only so long as continuing, in the ordinary course of the Company's business or the business of the Company's Subsidiaries.
In each case set forth above, notwithstanding any stated limitation on the assets that may be subject to such Lien, a Lien on a specified asset or group or type of assets may include Liens on all improvements, additions and accessions thereto and all products and proceeds thereof (including, without limitation, dividends, distributions and increases in respect thereof).
"" means:
Permitted Sale and Leaseback Transaction
(1)
any Sale and Leaseback Transaction if, within 180 days from the effective date of such Sale and Leaseback Transaction, the Company applies or any of its Subsidiaries applies an amount not less than the greater of:
(A)
the net proceeds of the sale of the property leased pursuant to such arrangement; or
(B)
the fair value of the property
to retire its Funded Debt, including, for this purpose, any currently maturing portion of such Funded Debt, or to purchase other property having a fair value at least equal to the fair value of the property leased in such Sale and Leaseback Transaction; or
(2)
any Sale and Leaseback Transaction:
(A)
between the Company and any of its Subsidiaries or between any of the Company's Subsidiaries; or
(B)
for which, at the time the transaction is entered into, the term of the related lease to the Company or its Subsidiary of the property sold pursuant to such transaction is three years or less.
"" means any individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated association, or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof.
Person
"" has the meaning assigned to it in Section 3.7.
Principal Property
"" means any transportation or distribution facility, including pipelines, of the Company or any Subsidiary located in the United States of America other than (i) any such facility which in the opinion of the Board of Directors of the Company is not of material importance to the business conducted by the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, or (ii) any such facility in which interests are held by the Company or by one or more Subsidiaries or by the Company and one or more Subsidiaries and by others and the aggregate interest held by the Company and all Subsidiaries does not exceed 50%.
Principal Transmission Facility
"" has the meaning assigned to it in Section 2.7(b).
Private Placement Legend
"" means any property interest owned by the Company or a Subsidiary in land (including submerged land and rights in and to oil, gas and mineral leases) located in the United States of America classified by the Company or such Subsidiary, as the case may be, as productive of crude oil, natural gas or other petroleum hydrocarbons in paying quantities; that such term shall not include any exploration or production facilities on said land, including any drilling or producing platform.
Productive Property
provided
"" means any "qualified institutional buyer" (as defined in Rule 144A).
QIB
"" means any of
Ratings Agency
(1)
Moody's;
(2)
S&P; or
(3)
if S&P or Moody's ceases to rate the Notes or ceases to make a rating on the Notes publicly available, an entity registered as a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" (registered as such pursuant to Rule 17g-1 of the Exchange Act) then making a rating on the Notes publicly available selected by the Company (as certified by an Officers' Certificate delivered to the Trustee), which shall be substituted for S&P or Moody's, as the case may be.
"" has the meaning assigned to it in the Form of Face of Note contained in .
Record Date
Exhibit A
"" means each of J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, Citigroup Global Markets Inc. (or their relevant Affiliates or successors) and two other primary U.S. Government securities dealers in New York City selected by the Company, or if any of the foregoing ceases to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer, another primary U.S. Government securities dealer in New York City selected by the Company.
Reference Treasury Dealer
"" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Independent Investment Banker, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Independent Investment Banker at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
"" means, with respect to any redemption of Notes, the date fixed for such redemption pursuant to this Indenture and the Notes.
Redemption Date
"" means any exchange offer by the Company registered under the Securities Act pursuant to which Notes originally issued pursuant to an exemption from registration under the Securities Act are exchanged for Notes of like principal amount not bearing the Private Placement Legend.
Registered Exchange Offer
"" has the meaning assigned to it in Section 2.3(a).
Registrar
"" means the Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of March 5, 2012, between the Company and the Initial Purchasers, as the case may be amended from time to time.
Registration Rights Agreement
"" means Regulation S under the Securities Act or any successor regulation.
Regulation S
"" has the meaning assigned to it in Section 2.1(e).
Regulation S Global Note
"" has the meaning assigned to it in the definition "Comparable Treasury Issue" above.
Remaining Life
"" means, for any Restricted Note (or beneficial interest therein), the period specified in Rule 144(d) following which the Notes are freely resellable by non-Affiliate Holders or beneficial owners.
Resale Restriction Termination Date
"" means any Original Note (or beneficial interest therein) or any Additional Note (or beneficial interest therein) not originally issued and sold pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, until such time as:
Restricted Note
(1)
the Resale Restriction Termination Date therefor has passed;
(2)
in the case of a Regulation S Global Note (or Certificated Note issued in respect thereof pursuant to ), the expiration of the Distribution Compliance Period;
Section 2.6
(3)
the Private Placement Legend therefor has otherwise been removed pursuant to Section 2.8(f) or, in the case of a beneficial interest in a Global Note, such beneficial interest has been exchanged for an interest in a Global Note not bearing a Private Placement Legend; or
(4)
such Note (or beneficial interest therein) has been exchanged for a corresponding Exchange Note pursuant to an Exchange Offer Registration Statement or transferred pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement.
"" means the Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated February 14, 2011 among Southwestern Energy Company, JPMorgan Chase Bank, NA, Bank of America, N.A., Wells Fargo N.A., The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC, Citigroup, N.A. and the other lenders named therein, JPMorgan Chase Bank, NA, as administrative agent.
Revolving Credit Facility
"" means Rule 144 under the Securities Act (or any successor rule), as such Rule may be amended from time to time.
Rule 144
"" means Rule 144A under the Securities Act (or any successor rule), as such Rule may be amended from time to time.
Rule 144A
"" has the meaning assigned to it in Section 2.1(d).
Rule 144A Global Note
"" means any direct or indirect arrangement with any Person or to which any such Person is a party, providing for the leasing to the Company or its Subsidiary of any property, whether owned as of the date hereof or hereafter acquired, which has been or is to be sold or transferred by the Company or such Subsidiary to such Person or to any other Person to whom funds have been or are to be advanced by such Person on the security of such property, in each case provided that the completion of construction or the commencement of commercial operation of the property subject to such transaction shall have occurred more than 180 days prior thereto.
Sale and Leaseback Transaction
"" means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
"" means any indebtedness for borrowed money incurred, assumed or guaranteed by the Company or one of its Subsidiaries that is secured by a Lien.
Secured Debt
"" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Securities Act
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in the Registration Rights Agreement.
Shelf Registration Statement
"" means any Subsidiary of the Company that would be a "significant subsidiary" of the Company as defined in Article 1, Rule 1-02 of Regulation S-X promulgated pursuant to the Securities Act, as such regulation is in effect on the Issue Date.
Significant Subsidiary
"" means Standard & Poor's Rating Services, a division of the McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., or any successor to the ratings agency business thereof.
S&P
"" has the meaning assigned to it in .
Special Record Date
Section 2.12(a)
"" means, with respect to the Company, any corporation, limited liability company, association or other business entity of which more than 50% of the total voting power of shares of capital stock or other equity interests entitled (without regard to the occurrence of any contingency) to vote in the election of directors, managers, trustees or other governing body thereof is at the time owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the Company or one or more of the other Subsidiaries of the Company (or a combination thereof).
Subsidiary
"" has the meaning assigned to it in Section 4.2.
Successor Company
"" means (a) any agreement with respect to any swap, forward, future or derivative transaction or option or similar agreement involving, or settled by reference to, one or more rates, currencies, commodities, equity or debt instruments or securities, or economic, financial or pricing indices or measures of economic, financial or pricing risk or value or any similar transaction or any combination of these transactions, whether or not any such transaction is governed by or subject to any master agreement and (b) any and all transactions of any kind, and the related confirmations, which are subject to the terms and conditions of, or governed by, any form of master agreement published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc., any International Foreign Exchange Master Agreement, or any other master agreement, including any such obligations or liabilities under any master agreement; that no phantom stock or similar plan providing for payments only on account of services provided by current or former directors, Officers, employees or consultants of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries shall be a "Swap Agreement".
Swap Agreement
provided
"" or "" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, as in effect on the date of this Indenture (except as otherwise provided in this Indenture).
TIA
Trust Indenture Act
"" means the period commencing on the day of the first public announcement (the "") by the Company of any Change of Control (or pending Change of Control) and ending 60 days following consummation of such Change of Control (which Trigger Period will be extended following consummation of a Change of Control for so long as either of the Rating Agencies has publicly announced that it is considering a possible ratings downgrade related to such Change of Control).
Trigger Period
Announcement Date
"" means, when used with respect to the Trustee, any officer assigned to Corporate Trust department (or any successor division or unit) of the Trustee located at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, who shall have direct responsibility for the administration of this Indenture, and for the purposes of and the second
Trust Officer
Section 7.1(c)(2)
sentence of Section 7.5 shall also include any other officer of the Trustee to whom any corporate trust matter is referred because of such officer's knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject.
"" means the party named as such in the introductory paragraph of this Indenture until a successor replaces it in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Indenture and, thereafter, means the successor.
Trustee
"" means direct obligations (or certificates representing an ownership interest in such obligations) of the United States of America (including any agency or instrumentality thereof) for the payment of which the full faith and credit of the United States of America is pledged and which are not callable or redeemable at the issuer's option.
U.S. Government Obligations
"" means such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment shall be legal tender for the payment of public and private debts.
U.S. Legal Tender
"" means a U.S. Person as defined in Regulation S.
U.S. Person
"" of a Person means all classes of Capital Stock of such Person then outstanding and normally entitled (without regard to the occurrence of any contingency) to vote in the election of directors, managers or trustees thereof.
Voting Stock
Section 1.2.
.
Incorporation by Reference of Trust Indenture Act
If any provision of this Indenture limits, qualifies or conflicts with the rights or duties that would be imposed by any of Sections 310 to 317 of the TIA through operation of Section 318(c) thereof on any Person if this Indenture were qualified under the TIA, such imposed duties shall control.
"" on the indenture securities means the Company, each Note Guarantor,  and any other obligor on the indenture securities.
obligor
All terms used in this Indenture, other than "obligor" or any other term that is defined in Section 1.1, that are defined by the TIA or in the TIA by reference to another statute or defined by Rules or Regulations of the SEC have the meanings assigned to them by such definitions.
Section 1.3.
.
Rules of Construction
Unless the context otherwise requires:
(a)
a term has the meaning assigned to it;
(b)
an accounting term not otherwise defined has the meaning assigned to it in accordance with GAAP;
(c)
"or" is not exclusive;
(d)
"including" means including without limitation;
(e)
words in the singular include the plural and words in the plural include the singular;
(f)
references to the payment of principal of the Notes shall include applicable premium, if any;
(g)
references to payments of interest on the Notes shall include amounts of Additional Interest payable under the Registration Rights Agreement or this Indenture, if any;
(h)
the words "herein", "hereof" and "hereunder" and other words of similar import refer to this Indenture as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other subdivision; and
(i)
references herein to Section numbers are references to Sections of this Indenture, unless the context otherwise requires.
ARTICLE II THE NOTES 
Section 2.1.
.
Form and Dating
 
(a)
The Notes are being originally offered and sold by the Company pursuant to a Purchase Agreement, dated as of February 29, 2012, between the Company, the Note Guarantors party hereto and the Initial Purchasers.  The Notes will be issued in fully-registered certificated form without coupons, and only in denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 thereafter.  The Notes and the Trustee's certificate of authentication shall be substantially in the form of .
Exhibit A
(b)
The terms and provisions of the Notes, the form of which is in , shall constitute, and are hereby expressly made, a part of this Indenture, and, to the extent applicable, the Company, the Note Guarantors and the Trustee, by their execution and delivery of this Indenture expressly agree to such terms and provisions and to be bound thereby.  The Notes may consist of Original Notes, Additional Notes and/or Exchange Notes, which shall rank in right of payment with each other and with all other existing and future senior unsecured obligations of the Company.  Unless the context otherwise requires, Original Notes and Exchange Notes and any Additional Notes shall be considered collectively to be a single class for all purposes of this Indenture, including without limitation waivers, amendments, redemptions and Change of Control Offers.  Notwithstanding any differences among them, all Notes issued under this Indenture shall vote and consent together on all matters as one class.
Exhibit A
pari passu
(c)
The Notes may have notations, legends or endorsements as specified in Section 2.7 or as otherwise required by law, stock exchange rule or DTC rule or usage.  The Company and the Trustee shall approve the form of the Notes and any notation, legend or endorsement on them.  Each Note shall be dated the date of its authentication.
(d)
Notes originally offered and sold to QIBs in reliance on Rule 144A shall be issued in the form of one or more permanent Global Notes (each, a "").
Rule 144A Global Note
(e)
Notes originally offered and sold outside the United States of America in reliance on Regulation S shall be issued in the form of one or more permanent Global Notes (each, a "").
Regulation S Global Note
Section 2.2.
.
Execution and Authentication
 
(a)
One Officer shall sign the Notes for the Company by manual or facsimile signature.  If an Officer whose signature is on a Note no longer holds that office at the time the Trustee authenticates the Note, the Note shall be valid nevertheless.
(b)
A Note shall not be valid until an authorized signatory of the Trustee manually authenticates the Note.  The signature of the Trustee on a Note shall be conclusive evidence that such Note has been duly and validly authenticated and issued under this Indenture.
(c)
At any time and from time to time after the execution and delivery of this Indenture, the Trustee shall authenticate and make available for delivery Notes upon a written order of the Company signed by an Officer of the Company (the "").  A Company Order shall specify the amount of the Notes to be authenticated and the date on which such issue of Notes is to be authenticated.  The Trustee shall, upon a Company Order, authenticate Notes for original issue on the Issue Date in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $1,000,000,000 (the "").  Notes shall be dated the date of their authentication.
Company Order
Original Notes
At any time and from time to time after the execution and delivery of this Indenture and subject to the provisions of this Indenture and the Registration Rights Agreement, the Company may deliver Exchange Notes executed by the Company to the Trustee for authentication, together with a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of such Exchange Notes and a like principal amount of Original Notes for cancellation in accordance with of this Indenture, and the Trustee in accordance with a Company Order shall authenticate and deliver such Notes.  In authenticating such Exchange Notes, and accepting the additional responsibilities under this Indenture in relation to such Notes, the Trustee shall be entitled to receive, and shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel stating:
Section 2.11
(i)
that such Exchange Notes have been duly and validly issued in accordance with the terms of this Indenture, and are entitled to all the rights and benefits set forth herein; and
(ii)
that the issuance of the Exchange Notes in exchange for the Original Notes has been effected either (A) in compliance with the Securities Act or (B) pursuant to the exemption from registration under the Securities Act provided by Rule 144 thereunder.
(d)
The Trustee may appoint an agent (the "") reasonably acceptable to the Company to authenticate the Notes.  Unless limited by the terms of
Authenticating Agent
such appointment, any such Authenticating Agent may authenticate Notes whenever the Trustee may do so.  Each reference in this Indenture to authentication by the Trustee includes authentication by the Authenticating Agent.
(e)
In case a Successor Company has executed an indenture supplemental hereto with the Trustee pursuant to Article IV, any of the Notes authenticated or delivered prior to such transaction may, from time to time, at the request of the Successor Company, be exchanged for other Notes executed in the name of the Successor Company with such changes in phraseology and form as may be appropriate, but otherwise identical to the Notes surrendered for such exchange and of like principal amount; and the Trustee, upon Company Order of the Successor Company, shall authenticate and deliver Notes as specified in such order for the purpose of such exchange.  If Notes shall at any time be authenticated and delivered in any new name of a Successor Company pursuant to this Section 2.2 in exchange or substitution for or upon registration of transfer of any Notes, such Successor Company, at the option of the Holders but without expense to them, shall provide for the exchange of all Notes at the time Outstanding for Notes authenticated and delivered in such new name.
Section 2.3.
.
Registrar and Paying Agent
 
(a)
The Company shall maintain an office or agency in the Borough of Manhattan, City of New York, where Notes may be presented or surrendered for registration of transfer or for exchange (the ""), where Notes may be presented for payment (the "") and for the service of notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Notes and this Indenture.  The Registrar shall keep a register of the Notes and of their transfer and exchange (the "").  The Company may appoint one or more co-Registrars and one or more additional paying agents.  The term "Registrar" includes any co-Registrar and the term "Paying Agent" includes any additional paying agent.
Registrar
Paying Agent
Note Register
(b)
The Company shall enter into an appropriate agency agreement with any Registrar, Paying Agent or co-Registrar not a party to this Indenture, which shall incorporate the terms of the TIA.  The agreement shall implement the provisions of this Indenture that relate to such agent.  The Company shall notify the Trustee of the name and address of each such agent.  If the Company fails to maintain a Registrar or Paying Agent, the Trustee shall act as such and shall be entitled to appropriate compensation therefor pursuant to Section 7.7.  The Company or any of its Subsidiaries may act as Paying Agent, Registrar, co-Registrar or transfer agent.
(c)
The Company initially appoints the Trustee at its Corporate Trust Office as Registrar, Paying Agent and agent for service of demands and notices in connection with the Notes and this Indenture, until such time as another Person is appointed as such.  The Company may change any Paying Agent or Registrar without notice to any Holder.
Section 2.4.
.
Paying Agent to Hold Money in Trust
The Company shall require each Paying Agent (other than the Trustee) to agree in writing that such Paying Agent shall hold in trust for the benefit of Holders or the Trustee all money held by such Paying Agent for the payment of principal of or interest on the Notes and shall notify the Trustee in writing of any Default by the Company or any Note Guarantor in making any such payment.  If the Company or any Note Guarantor or an Affiliate of the Company or any Note Guarantor acts as Paying Agent,
it shall segregate the money held by it as Paying Agent and hold it as a separate trust fund.  While any such Default continues, the Trustee may require a Paying Agent to pay all money held by it to the Trustee.  The Company at any time may require a Paying Agent (other than the Trustee) to pay all money held by it to the Trustee and to account for any funds disbursed by such Paying Agent.  Upon complying with this Section 2.4, the Paying Agent (if other than the Company or a Note Guarantor) shall have no further liability for the money delivered to the Trustee.  Upon any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law with respect to the Company or any Note Guarantor or any Affiliate of the Company or any Note Guarantor, if the Company, any such Note Guarantor or such Affiliate is then acting as Paying Agent, the Trustee shall replace the Company, such Note Guarantor or such Affiliate as Paying Agent.
Section 2.5.
.
Holder Lists
The Trustee shall preserve in as current a form as is reasonably practicable the most recent list available to it of the names and addresses of Holders.  If the Trustee is not the Registrar, or to the extent otherwise required under the TIA, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee, in writing at least seven Business Days before each Interest Payment Date and at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing, a list in such form and as of such date as the Trustee may reasonably require of the names and addresses of Holders.
Section 2.6.
.
Global Note Provisions
 
(a)
Each Global Note initially shall:  (i) be registered in the name of DTC or the nominee of DTC, (ii) be delivered to the Note Custodian, and (iii) bear the appropriate legend, as set forth in Section 2.7 and .  Any Global Note may be represented by more than one certificate.  The aggregate principal amount of each Global Note may from time to time be increased or decreased by adjustments made on the records of the Note Custodian, as provided in this Indenture.
Exhibit A
(b)
Except to the extent provided in , members of, or Participants in, DTC ("") shall have no rights under this Indenture with respect to any Global Note held on their behalf by DTC or by the Note Custodian under such Global Note, and DTC may be treated by the Company, the Trustee, the Paying Agent and the Registrar and any of their agents as the absolute owner of such Global Note for all purposes whatsoever.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall prevent the Company, the Trustee, the Paying Agent or the Registrar or any of their agents from giving effect to any written certification, proxy or other authorization furnished by DTC or impair, as between DTC and its Agent Members, the operation of customary practices of DTC governing the exercise of the rights of an owner of a beneficial interest in any Global Note.  The registered Holder of a Global Note may grant proxies and otherwise authorize any Person, including Agent Members and Persons that may hold interests through Agent Members, to take any action that a Holder is entitled to take under this Indenture or the Notes.
Section 2.6(c)
Agent Members
The provisions of the "Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System" and "Terms and Conditions Governing Use of Euroclear" and the "General Terms and Conditions of Clearstream" and "Customer Handbook" of Clearstream Luxembourg, as amended, or any successor publications thereto, shall be applicable to transfers of beneficial interests in Global Notes that are held by Participants through Euroclear or Clearstream Luxembourg.
(c)
Except as provided in this Section 2.6, owners of beneficial interests in Global Notes will not be entitled to receive Certificated Notes.  Certificated Notes shall be issued to all owners of beneficial interests in a Global Note in exchange for such interests if:
(i)
DTC notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as depositary for such Global Note or DTC ceases to be a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act, and in each case a successor depositary is not appointed by the Company within 90 days of such notice,
(ii)
the Company, at its option, executes and delivers to the Trustee and Registrar an Officers' Certificate stating that such Global Note shall be so exchangeable, or
(iii)
an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and the Registrar has received a request from a Holder of the Global Notes.  
In connection with any exchange of an entire Global Note for Certificated Notes pursuant to this paragraph (c), such Global Note shall be deemed to be surrendered to the Trustee for cancellation, and the Company shall execute, and upon Company Order the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, to each beneficial owner identified by DTC in exchange for its beneficial interest in such Global Note, an equal aggregate principal amount of Certificated Notes of authorized denominations.
(d)
In connection with the exchange of a portion of a Certificated Note for a beneficial interest in a Global Note, the Trustee shall cancel such Certificated Note, and the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the exchanging Holder, a new Certificated Note representing the principal amount not so exchanged unless such principal amount is to be exchanged for a beneficial interest in a Global Note pursuant to .
Section 2.8(d)
Section 2.7.
.
Legends
 
(a)
Each Global Note shall bear the legend specified therefor in on the face thereof.
Exhibit A
(b)
Each Restricted Note shall bear the private placement legend specified therefor in on the face thereof (the "").
Exhibit A
Private Placement Legend
Section 2.8.
.
Transfer and Exchange
 
(a)
.  A Global Note may not be transferred as a whole except by DTC to a nominee of DTC, by a nominee of DTC to DTC or to another nominee of DTC, or by DTC or any such nominee to a successor depositary or a nominee of such successor depositary.  The owner of a beneficial interest in a Global Note will be entitled to receive a Certificated Note in exchange for such interest to the extent provided in .  Global Notes also may be exchanged or replaced, in whole or in part, as provided in Section 2.9 and Section 2.10 hereof. Every Note authenticated and delivered in exchange for, or in lieu of, a Global Note or any portion thereof, pursuant to this Section 2.8, or Section 2.9 or
Transfer and Exchange of Global Notes
Section 2.6(c)
Section 2.10 hereof, shall be authenticated and delivered in the form of, and shall be, a Global Note.  A Global Note may not be exchanged for another Note other than as provided in Section 2.6; , , that beneficial interests in a Global Note may be transferred and exchanged as provided therein.
provided
however
In the event that Certificated Notes are not issued to each Holder of a beneficial interest in a Global Note promptly after the Registrar has received a request from the Holder of a Global Note to issue such Certificated Notes in accordance with Section 2.6(c), the Company expressly acknowledges, with respect to the right of any Holder to pursue a remedy pursuant to Section 6.6 or Section 6.7 hereof, the right of any beneficial Holder of Notes to pursue such remedy with respect to the portion of the Global Note that represents such beneficial Holder's Notes as if such Certificated Notes had been issued.
(b)
.  The transfer and exchange of beneficial interests in the Global Notes shall be effected through DTC, in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture and the Applicable Procedures.  Transfers of beneficial interests in the Global Notes also shall require compliance with either subparagraph (i) or (ii) below, as applicable, as well as one or more of the other following subparagraphs, as applicable:
Transfer and Exchange of Beneficial Interests in the Global Notes
(i)
.  Beneficial interests in any Global Note may be transferred to Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in the same Global Note. No written orders or instructions shall be required to be delivered to the Registrar to effect the transfers described in this .
Transfer of Beneficial Interests in the Same Global Note
Section 2.8(b)(i)
(ii)
.  In connection with all transfers and exchanges of beneficial interests that are not subject to above, the transferor of such beneficial interest must deliver to the Registrar either (A) (1) a written order from a Participant or an Indirect Participant given to DTC in accordance with the Applicable Procedures directing DTC to credit or cause to be credited a beneficial interest in another Global Note in an amount equal to the beneficial interest to be transferred or exchanged and (2) instructions given in accordance with the Applicable Procedures containing information regarding the Participant account to be credited with such increase or (B) (1) a written order from a Participant or an Indirect Participant given to DTC in accordance with the Applicable Procedures directing DTC to cause to be issued a Certificated Note in an amount equal to the beneficial interest to be transferred or exchanged and (2) instructions given by DTC to the Registrar containing information regarding the Person in whose name such Certificated Note shall be registered to effect the transfer or exchange referred to in (1) above. Upon satisfaction of all of the requirements for transfer or exchange of beneficial interests in Global Notes contained in this Indenture and the Notes or otherwise applicable under the Securities Act, the Trustee shall adjust the principal amount of the relevant Global Note(s).
All Other Transfers and Exchanges of Beneficial Interests in Global Notes
Section 2.8(b)(i)
(iii)
.  If the owner of a beneficial interest in the Regulation S Global Note wishes at any time to transfer such interest to a Person who wishes to acquire the same in the form of a beneficial interest in
Regulation S Global Note to Rule 144A Global Note
the Rule 144A Global Note, such transfer may be effected only in accordance with this clause (iii) and subject to the Applicable Procedures.  Upon receipt by the Trustee, as Registrar, of (A) an order given by the Participant directing DTC or its authorized representative that a beneficial interest in the Rule 144A Global Note in a specified principal amount be credited to a specified Participant's account and that a beneficial interest in the Regulation S Global Note in an equal principal amount be debited from another specified Participant's account and (B) if such transfer is to occur during the Restricted Period, a certificate in the form of hereto, satisfactory to the Trustee and duly executed by the owner of such beneficial interest in the Regulation S Global Note or its attorney duly authorized in writing, then the Trustee, as Registrar, shall reduce the principal amount of the Regulation S Global Note and increase the principal amount of the Rule 144A Global Note by such specified principal amount.
Exhibit B
(iv)
.  If the owner of a beneficial interest in the Rule 144A Global Note wishes at any time to transfer such interest to a Person who wishes to acquire the same in the form of a beneficial interest in the Regulation S Global Note, such transfer may be effected only in accordance with the provisions of this clause (iv) and subject to the Applicable Procedures.  Upon receipt by the Trustee, as Registrar, of (A) an order given by the Participant directing DTC or its authorized representative that a beneficial interest in the Regulation S Global Note in a specified principal amount be credited to a specified Participant's account and that a beneficial interest in the Rule 144A Global Note in an equal principal amount be debited from another specified Participant's account and (B) a certificate in the form of hereto, satisfactory to the Trustee and duly executed by the owner of such beneficial interest in the Rule 144A Global Note or its attorney duly authorized in writing, then the Trustee, as Registrar, shall reduce the principal amount of the Rule 144A Global Note and increase the principal amount of the Regulation S Global Note by such specified principal amount.
Rule 144A Global Note to Regulation S Global Note
Exhibit C
(c)
.  If any Holder of a beneficial interest in a Global Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a Certificated Note or to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a Certificated Note, then, upon satisfaction of the conditions set forth in hereof, the Trustee shall cause the aggregate principal amount of the applicable Global Note to be reduced accordingly, and the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Person designated in the instructions a Certificated Note in the appropriate principal amount.
Transfer or Exchange of Beneficial Interests for Certificated Notes
Section 2.6(c)
(d)
.  Upon request by a Holder of Certificated Notes to exchange such Certificated Notes for a beneficial interest in a Global Note and such requesting Holder's presenting or surrendering to the Registrar the Certificated Notes duly endorsed or accompanied by a written instruction of transfer in form satisfactory to the Registrar duly executed by such Holder or by its attorney, duly authorized in writing, the Registrar shall register the transfer or exchange of Certificated Notes and effect the transfer or exchange through DTC, in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture and the Applicable Procedures.  The Trustee shall cancel the Certificated Note and cause the aggregate principal amount of the applicable Global Note to be increased accordingly pursuant to the terms
Transfer or Exchange of Certificated Notes for Beneficial Interests
of this Indenture and the Applicable Procedures.  If the Certificated Note to be transferred in whole or in part is a Restricted Note, or is a Regulation S Note and the transfer is to occur during the Distribution Compliance Period therefor, then the Trustee shall have received (A) a certificate substantially in the form of hereto, satisfactory to the Trustee and duly executed by the transferor Holder or its attorney duly authorized in writing, in which case the transferee Holder shall take delivery in the form of a beneficial interest in the Rule 144A Global Note, or (B) a certificate substantially in the form of hereto, satisfactory to the Trustee and duly executed by the transferor Holder or its attorney duly authorized in writing, in which case the transferee Holder shall take delivery in the form of a beneficial interest in the Regulation S Global Note.
Exhibit B
Exhibit C
(e)
.  Upon request by a Holder of Certificated Notes and such requesting Holder's presenting or surrendering to the Registrar the Certificated Notes duly endorsed or accompanied by a written instruction of transfer in form satisfactory to the Registrar duly executed by such Holder or by its attorney, duly authorized in writing, the Registrar shall register the transfer or exchange of Certificated Notes; that, if the Note to be transferred in whole or in part is a Restricted Note, or is a Regulation S Note and the transfer is to occur during the Distribution Compliance Period therefor, then the Trustee shall have received (A) a certificate substantially in the form of Exhibit B hereto, satisfactory to the Trustee and duly executed by the transferor Holder or its attorney duly authorized in writing, in which case the transferee Holder shall take delivery in the form of a Restricted Note, or (B) a certificate substantially in the form of Exhibit C hereto, satisfactory to the Trustee and duly executed by the transferor Holder or its attorney duly authorized in writing, in which case the transferee Holder shall take delivery in the form of a Regulation S Note.
Transfer and Exchange of Certificated Notes for Certificated Notes
provided
(f)
.
Use and Removal of Private Placement Legends
(i)
Upon the transfer, exchange or replacement of Notes (or beneficial interests in a Global Note) not bearing (or not required to bear upon such transfer, exchange or replacement) a Private Placement Legend, the Note Custodian and Registrar shall exchange such Notes (or beneficial interests in a Global Note) for beneficial interests in a Global Note (or Certificated Notes if they have been issued pursuant to ) that does not bear a Private Placement Legend and bears an unrestricted CUSIP number.  
Section 2.6(c)
(ii)
Upon the transfer, exchange or replacement of Notes (or beneficial interests in a Global Note) bearing a Private Placement Legend, the Note Custodian and Registrar shall deliver only Notes that bear (or beneficial interests in a Global Note that bears) a Private Placement Legend, unless:
(A)
such Notes (or beneficial interests) are exchanged in a Registered Exchange Offer;
(B)
such Notes (or beneficial interests) are transferred pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement;
(C)
such Notes (or beneficial interests) are transferred pursuant to Rule 144 upon delivery to the Registrar of a certificate of the transferor in the form of Exhibit D and an Opinion of Counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Registrar;
(D)
such Notes (or beneficial interests) are transferred, replaced or exchanged after the Resale Restriction Termination Date therefor; or
(E)
in connection with such transfer, exchange or replacement the Registrar shall have received an Opinion of Counsel, certificates and such other evidence reasonably satisfactory to it to the effect that neither such Private Placement Legend nor the related restrictions on transfer are required in order to maintain compliance with the provisions of the Securities Act.
Any Notes that cease to bear a Private Placement Legend shall also thereafter bear an unrestricted CUSIP number.  The Company shall deliver to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate promptly upon effectiveness, withdrawal or suspension of any Exchange Offer Registration Statement or any Shelf Registration Statement.
(iii)
The Holder of a Global Note that bears a Private Placement Legend may exchange an interest therein for an equivalent interest in a Global Note not bearing a Private Placement Legend upon transfer of such interest pursuant to this Section 2.8(f).
(iv)
The Private Placement Legend on any Note shall be removed at the request of the Holder on or after the Resale Restriction Termination Date therefor, upon delivery to the Registrar of (i) a certificate of the Holder and (ii) an Opinion of Counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Registrar, to the effect that such removal shall be permitted under applicable U.S. federal securities laws.
(v)
The Private Placement Legend on any Note or on any Global Note may be removed, and the Notes exchanged for or transferred into a Note or Global Note that does not bear a restricted CUSIP, at the request of the Company (such request to be made by means of delivery to the Registrar of an Officers' Certificate containing such request, and compliance with the applicable procedures of the Depositary) on or after the date that is 370 days after the Issue Date of the Notes; that if any Additional Notes have been issued, the earliest day on which the Company may make such request shall be the date that is 370 days after the issue date of such Additional Notes.  The Company and the Registrar and the other parties to this Indenture shall be authorized to take such steps as may be required to effect such removal, which may include exchanging such Note (or such beneficial interests) for a new Note (or an equivalent interest in another Global Note) not bearing a Private Placement Legend and bearing an unrestricted CUSIP; , that such steps shall not adversely affect the rights of any Holder of such Notes (or beneficial interests in such Global Notes) in any material respect.
provided
provided
(g)
.
Consolidation of Global Notes and Exchange of Certificated Notes for Beneficial Interests in Global Notes
(i)
If a Global Note not bearing a Private Placement Legend is Outstanding at the time of a Registered Exchange Offer, any interests in a Global Note exchanged in such Registered Exchange Offer shall be exchanged for interests in such Outstanding Global Note.
(ii)
Upon the transfer or exchange (including in a Registered Exchange Offer) of any Certificated Note for which a Private Placement Legend would not be required pursuant to Section 2.8(f) following such transfer or exchange, such Certificated Note shall be exchanged for an interest in a Global Note not bearing a Private Placement Legend and, if no such Global Note is Outstanding at such time, Company shall execute and upon Company Order the Trustee shall authenticate a Global Note not bearing a Private Placement Legend.
(h)
.  The Registrar shall retain, in accordance with its retention policy, copies of all letters, notices and other written communications received pursuant to this Article II.  The Company shall have the right to inspect and make copies of all such letters, notices or other written communications at any reasonable time upon the giving of reasonable written notice to the Registrar.
Retention of Documents
(i)
Execution, Authentication of Notes, etc.
(i)
Subject to the other provisions of this Section 2.8, when Notes are presented to the Registrar or a co-Registrar with a request to register the transfer of such Notes or to exchange such Notes for an equal principal amount of Notes of other authorized denominations, the Registrar or co-Registrar shall register the transfer or make the exchange as requested if its requirements for such transaction are met; that any Notes presented or surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange shall be duly endorsed or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Registrar or co-Registrar, duly executed by the Holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing.  To permit registrations of transfers and exchanges and subject to the other terms and conditions of this Article II, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate Certificated Notes and Global Notes upon Company Order.  In accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement, Company shall execute and upon Company Order the Trustee shall authenticate Exchange Notes in exchange for Notes.
provided
(ii)
No service charge shall be made to a Holder for any registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any transfer tax, assessments, or similar governmental charge payable in connection therewith (other than any such transfer taxes, assessments or similar governmental charges payable upon exchange or transfer pursuant to a Registered Exchange Offer or to Section 3.9, Section 5.1 or Section 9.5).
(iii)
The Registrar or co-Registrar shall not be required to register the transfer of or exchange of any Note for a period beginning:  (1) 15 days before the mailing of a
notice of an offer to repurchase or redeem Notes and ending at the close of business on the day of such mailing (except the unrepurchased or unredeemed portion thereof, if any) or (2) 15 days before an Interest Payment Date and ending on such Interest Payment Date.
(iv)
Prior to the due presentation for registration of transfer of any Note, the Company, any Note Guarantor, the Trustee, the Paying Agent, the Registrar, any co-Registrar or the Note Custodian may deem and treat the Person in whose name a Note is registered as the absolute owner of such Note for the purpose of receiving payment of principal of and interest on such Note and for all other purposes whatsoever, whether or not such Note is overdue, and none of the Company, any Note Guarantor, the Trustee, the Paying Agent, the Registrar, any co-Registrar or the Note Custodian shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
(v)
All Notes issued upon any transfer or exchange pursuant to the terms of this Indenture shall evidence the same debt and shall be entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as the Notes surrendered upon such transfer or exchange.
(vi)
All certifications, certificates and Opinions of Counsel required to be submitted pursuant to this Section 2.8(i) to effect a transfer or registration or exchange may be submitted by facsimile or email.
(j)
.
No Obligation of the Trustee
(i)
The Trustee shall have no responsibility or obligation to any beneficial owner of an interest in a Global Note, any Agent Member or Participant or other Person with respect to the accuracy of the records of DTC or its nominee or of any Agent Member or Participant thereof, with respect to any ownership interest in the Notes or with respect to the delivery to any Agent Member or Participant, Indirect Participant, other beneficial owner or other Person (other than the Holders) of any notice (including any notice of redemption) or the payment of any amount or delivery of any Notes (or other security or property) under or with respect to such Notes.  All notices and communications to be given to the Holders and all payments to be made to Holders in respect of the Notes shall be given or made only to or upon the order of the registered Holders (which shall be DTC or its nominee in the case of a Global Note).  The rights of beneficial owners in any Global Note shall be exercised only through DTC subject to the applicable rules and procedures of DTC.  The Trustee may rely and shall be fully protected in relying upon information furnished by DTC with respect to its members, participants and any beneficial owners.
(ii)
The Trustee shall have no obligation or duty to monitor, determine or inquire as to compliance with any restrictions on transfer imposed under this Indenture or under applicable law with respect to any transfer of any interest in any Note (including any transfers between or among Agent Members, Participants, Indirect Participants or other beneficial owners in any Global Note) other than to require delivery of such certificates and other documentation or evidence as are expressly required by, and to do so if and when expressly required by, the terms of this Indenture, and to examine the
same to determine substantial compliance as to form with the express requirements hereof.
Section 2.9.
.
Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost or Stolen Notes
 
(a)
If a mutilated Note is surrendered to the Registrar or if the Holder of a Note claims that the Note has been lost, destroyed or wrongfully taken, the Company shall execute, and upon Company Order the Trustee shall authenticate and make available for delivery, a replacement Note for such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Note, of like tenor and principal amount, bearing a number not contemporaneously Outstanding if: (i) the requirements of Section 8-405 of the Uniform Commercial Code are met, (ii) the Holder satisfies any other reasonable requirements of the Trustee and (iii) neither the Company nor the Trustee has received notice that such Note has been acquired by a protected purchaser.  If required by the Trustee or the Company, such Holder shall furnish an affidavit of loss and indemnity bond sufficient in the judgment of the Company and the Trustee to protect the Company, any Note Guarantor, the Trustee, the Paying Agent, the Registrar, any co-Registrar and the Note Custodian from any loss that any of them may suffer if a Note is replaced.
(b)
Upon the issuance of any new Note under this Section 2.9, the Company may require the payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in relation thereto and any other expenses (including the fees and expenses of the Trustee) in connection therewith.
(c)
Every new Note issued pursuant to this Section 2.9 in exchange for any mutilated Note, or in lieu of any destroyed, lost or stolen Note, shall constitute an original additional contractual obligation of the Company, any Note Guarantor and any other obligor upon the Notes, whether or not the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Note shall be at any time enforceable by anyone, and shall be entitled to all benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately with any and all other Notes duly issued hereunder.
Section 2.10.
.
Temporary Notes
Until definitive Notes are ready for delivery, the Company may execute, and upon Company Order the Trustee shall authenticate, temporary Notes.  Temporary Notes shall be substantially in the form of definitive Notes but may have variations that the Company considers appropriate for temporary Notes.  Without unreasonable delay, the Company shall prepare and execute and upon Company Order the Trustee shall authenticate definitive Notes.  After the preparation of definitive Notes, the temporary Notes shall be exchangeable for definitive Notes upon surrender of the temporary Notes at any office or agency maintained by the Company for that purpose and such exchange shall be without charge to the Holder.  Upon surrender for cancellation of any one or more temporary Notes, the Company shall execute, and upon Company Order the Trustee shall authenticate and make available for delivery in exchange therefor, one or more definitive Notes representing an equal principal amount of Notes.  Until so exchanged, the Holder of temporary Notes shall in all respects be entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as a Holder of definitive Notes.
Section 2.11.
.
Cancellation
The Company at any time may deliver Notes to the Trustee for cancellation.  The Registrar and the Paying Agent shall forward to the Trustee any Notes surrendered to them for registration of transfer, exchange or payment.  The Trustee (and
no one else) shall cancel all Notes surrendered for registration of transfer, exchange, payment, replacement or cancellation and shall dispose of such cancelled Notes in its customary manner and policy of disposal and in accordance with prudent business practices.  The Company may not issue new Notes to replace Notes it has paid or that have been delivered to the Trustee for cancellation for any reason other than in connection with a transfer or exchange upon Company Order.
Section 2.12.
Defaulted Interest
When any installment of interest becomes Defaulted Interest, such installment shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holders in whose names the Notes were registered on the Record Date applicable to such installment of interest.  Defaulted Interest (including any interest on such Defaulted Interest) shall be paid by the Company, at its election, as provided in or .
Section 2.12(a)
(b)
(a)
The Company may elect to make payment of any Defaulted Interest (including any interest on such Defaulted Interest) to the Holders in whose names the Notes are registered at the close of business on a special record date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest (a ""), which shall be fixed in the following manner.  The Company shall notify the Trustee in writing of the amount of Defaulted Interest proposed to be paid and the date of the proposed payment, and at the same time the Company shall deposit with the Trustee or the Paying Agent an amount of money equal to the aggregate amount proposed to be paid in respect of such Defaulted Interest or shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for such deposit prior to the date of the proposed payment, such money when deposited to be held in trust for the benefit of the Holders entitled to such Defaulted Interest as provided in this Section 2.12(a).  Thereupon the Trustee shall fix a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest, which shall be not more than 15 calendar days and not less than ten calendar days prior to the date of the proposed payment and not less than ten calendar days after the receipt by the Trustee of the notice of the proposed payment.  The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company of such Special Record Date and, in the name and at the expense of the Company, shall cause notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefor to be sent, first-class mail, postage prepaid, to each Holder at such Holder's address as it appears in the registration books of the Registrar, not less than ten calendar days prior to such Special Record Date.  Notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefor having been mailed as aforesaid, such Defaulted Interest shall be paid to the Holders in whose names the Notes are registered at the close of business on such Special Record Date and shall no longer be payable pursuant to .
Special Record Date
Section 2.12(b)
(b)
Alternatively, the Company may make payment of any Defaulted Interest (including any interest on such Defaulted Interest) in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Notes may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, if, after notice given by the Company to the Trustee of the proposed payment pursuant to this , such manner of payment shall be deemed practicable by the Trustee.
Section 2.12(b)
Section 2.13.
.
Additional Interest Under the Registration Rights Agreement
Under certain circumstances, the Company may be obligated to pay additional interest to Holders, all as and to the extent set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement.  The terms thereof are hereby incorporated herein by reference.
Section 2.14.
.
CUSIP or ISIN Numbers
The Trustee shall use "CUSIP", "ISIN", and/or other similar numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders if the Company uses "CUSIP", "ISIN" and/or other similar numbers in issuing the Notes; that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Notes or as contained in any notice of a redemption and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Notes, and any such redemption shall not be affected by any defect in or omission of such numbers.  The Company will promptly notify the Trustee of any change in the "CUSIP", "ISIN" and/or other similar numbers.
provided
Section 2.15.
.
Additional Notes
From and after the Issue Date, the Company may, from time to time, subject to compliance with any other applicable provisions of this Indenture, without the consent of the Holders, create and issue pursuant to this Indenture Additional Notes having terms and conditions identical to those of the Outstanding Notes, except that Additional Notes:
(a)
may have a different issue date;
(b)
may have a different amount of interest payable on the first Interest Payment Date after issuance;
(c)
may have a different issue price; , that no Additional Notes shall be issued at a price that would cause such Additional Notes to have "original issue discount" within the meaning of Section 1273 of the Code; and
provided
(d)
may have terms specified in the Additional Note Board Resolution or Additional Note Supplemental Indenture, copies of which shall be delivered to the Trustee, for such Additional Notes making appropriate adjustments to this and (and related definitions) applicable to such Additional Notes in order to conform to and ensure compliance with the Securities Act (or other applicable securities laws) and any registration rights or similar agreement applicable to such Additional Notes, which are not adverse in any material respect to the Holder of any Notes (other than such Additional Notes);
Article II
Exhibit A
, that no adjustment pursuant to this Section 2.15 shall cause such Additional Notes to constitute, as determined pursuant to an Opinion of Counsel, a different class of securities than the Original Notes for U.S. federal income tax purposes except for Additional Notes that have a separate CUSIP, ISIN and/or other similar number from the Notes pending performance by the Company of its obligations under a registration rights agreement.
provided
ARTICLE III COVENANTS
Section 3.1.
.
Payment of Notes
 
(a)
The Company shall pay or cause to be paid the principal of and interest (including Defaulted Interest) on the Notes in U.S. Legal Tender on the dates and in the manner provided in the Notes and in this Indenture.  Prior to 10:00 a.m. New York City time on each
Interest Payment Date and the Maturity Date, the Company shall deposit with the Paying Agent in immediately available funds U.S. Legal Tender sufficient to make cash payments due on such Interest Payment Date or Maturity Date, as the case may be.  If the Company, a Note Guarantor or an Affiliate of the Company or a Note Guarantor is acting as Paying Agent, the Company, such Note Guarantor or such Affiliate shall, prior to 10:00 a.m. New York City time on each Interest Payment Date and the Maturity Date, segregate and hold in trust U.S. Legal Tender sufficient to make cash payments due on such Interest Payment Date or Maturity Date, as the case may be.  Principal and interest shall be considered paid on the date due if on such date the Trustee or the Paying Agent (other than the Company, a Note Guarantor or an Affiliate of the Company or a Note Guarantor) holds in accordance with this Indenture U.S. Legal Tender designated for and sufficient to pay all principal and interest then due and the Trustee or the Paying Agent, as the case may be, is not prohibited from paying such money to the Holders on that date pursuant to the terms of this Indenture.
(b)
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Indenture, the Company may, to the extent it is required to do so by law, deduct or withhold income or other similar taxes imposed by the United States of America from principal or interest payments hereunder.
Section 3.2.
.
Maintenance of Office or Agency
 
(a)
The Company shall maintain each office or agency required under Section 2.3.  The Company shall give prompt written notice to the Trustee of any change in the location of any such office or agency.  If at any time the Company shall fail to maintain any such required office or agency or shall fail to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, and the Company hereby appoints the Trustee as its agent to receive all such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands.
(b)
The Company may also from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies (in or outside of The City of New York) where the Notes may be presented or surrendered for any or all such purposes and may from time to time rescind any such designation;, , that no such designation or rescission shall in any manner relieve the Company of its obligation to maintain an office or agency in The City of New York for such purposes.  The Company shall give prompt written notice to the Trustee of any such designation or rescission and any change in the location of any such other office or agency.
provided
however
Section 3.3.
.
Maintenance of Existence
Subject to Article IV, the Company shall do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect its existence.
Section 3.4.
.
Payment of Taxes
The Company will pay or discharge or cause to be paid or discharged, before the same shall become delinquent, all taxes, assessments and governmental charges levied or imposed upon the Company or any Subsidiary, the non-payment of which would materially adversely affect the business, prospects, earnings, properties, assets or condition, financial or otherwise, of the Company and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole; , that the Company shall not be required to pay or discharge or cause to be
provided
,
however
paid or discharged any such tax, assessment, charge or claim whose amount, applicability or validity is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings or where the failure to effect such payment will not be disadvantageous to the Holders.
Section 3.5.
.
Compliance Certificate
 
The Company shall deliver to the Trustee within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company an Officers' Certificate that complies with TIA  314(a)(4) stating that in the course of the performance by the signers of their duties as Officers of the Company, they would normally have knowledge of any Default or Event of Default and whether or not the signers know of any Default or Event of Default that occurred during such period.  If they do, the certificate shall describe the Default or Event of Default, its status and what action the Company is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto.  The Company also shall comply with any other applicable requirements of TIA  314(a)(4).  
Section 3.6.
.
Further Instruments and Acts
The Company and each Note Guarantor shall execute and deliver such further instruments and do such further acts as may be reasonably necessary or proper or as the Trustee may reasonably request to carry out more effectively the purpose of this Indenture.
Section 3.7.
.
Limitation on Liens
The Company shall not, and shall not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, incur, assume, or guarantee any indebtedness for borrowed money secured by a Lien on (a) any Productive Property, (b) any Principal Transmission Facility or (c) any shares of stock of any Subsidiary (collectively (a), (b) and (c), ""), if the sum, without duplication, of
Principal Property
(a)
the aggregate principal amount of all Secured Debt of the Company and its Subsidiaries (other than Secured Debt secured by a Permitted Lien); and
(b)
all Attributable Debt of the Company or its Subsidiaries in respect of Sale and Leaseback Transactions involving any Principal Property (other than Permitted Sale and Leaseback Transactions)
exceeds 15% of the Company's Consolidated Assets, unless the Company provides that the Notes and the Note Guarantees will be secured equally and ratably with (or, at the Company's option, prior to) such Secured Debt.
Section 3.8.
.
Limitation on Sale and Leaseback Transactions
Neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries shall enter into, assume, guarantee or otherwise become liable with respect to any Sale and Leaseback Transaction involving any Principal Property, unless after giving effect thereto the sum, without duplication, of:
(a)
the aggregate principal amount of all Secured Debt (other than Secured Debt secured by a Permitted Lien); and
(b)
all Attributable Debt in respect of such Sale and Leaseback Transactions (other than Permitted Sale and Leaseback Transactions)
does not exceed 15% of the Company's Consolidated Assets.
Section 3.9.
.
Offer to Repurchase Upon Change of Control Event
 
(a)
If a Change of Control Event occurs, each Holder shall have the right to require the Company to repurchase all or any part (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 thereafter) of such Holder's Notes at a purchase price, in cash, equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of such Holder's Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, and Additional Interest, if any, up to but excluding the date of purchase (the ""), subject to the right of Holders on a Record Date to receive interest on the relevant Interest Payment Date as described in Section 3.9(c) below.  Within 30 days following a Change of Control Event, if the Company has not (prior to the Change of Control Event) sent a redemption notice for all the Notes in connection with an optional redemption permitted by Article V of this Indenture, the Company shall mail a Change of Control Notice (the "") to each Holder, with a copy to the Trustee.  On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Company shall, to the extent lawful:
Change of Control Payment
Change of Control Offer
(i)
accept for payment all Notes or portions of Notes (of at least $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 thereafter) properly tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer;
(ii)
deposit with the Paying Agent an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all Notes or portions of Notes properly tendered and not properly withdrawn; and
(iii)
deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Notes so accepted together with an Officers' Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of Notes or portions thereof being purchased by the Company.
(b)
The Paying Agent shall promptly mail to each Holder of Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn the Change of Control Payment for such Notes, and the Trustee shall promptly authenticate and mail (or cause to be transferred by book entry) to each Holder a new Note equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of the Notes surrendered, if any; that each such new Note shall be in a principal amount of $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 thereafter.  Any Note so accepted for payment shall cease to accrue interest on and after the Change of Control Payment Date unless the Company defaults in making the Change of Control Payment.
provided
(c)
If the Change of Control Payment Date is on or after a Record Date for the payment of interest or Additional Interest and on or before the related Interest Payment Date, any accrued and unpaid interest, and Additional Interest, if any, shall be paid to the Person in whose name the relevant Note is registered at the close of business on such Record Date, and no further interest shall be payable to Holders who tender pursuant to the Change of Control Offer.
(d)
The provisions described above shall be applicable to any Change of Control Event, except as described in this Section 3.9 whether or not any other provisions of this Indenture are applicable.
(e)
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company shall not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon a Change of Control Event if a third party makes the Change of Control Offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements set forth in this Indenture applicable to a Change of Control Offer made by the Company and purchases all Notes validly tendered and not properly withdrawn under such Change of Control Offer.
(f)
The Company shall comply, to the extent applicable, with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act and any other securities laws or regulations in connection with the purchase of Notes in connection with a Change of Control Event.  To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with provisions of this Indenture, or compliance with the Change of Control Event provisions of this Indenture would constitute a violation of any such laws or regulations, the Company shall comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and shall not be deemed to have breached its obligations described in this Indenture by virtue of its compliance with such securities laws or regulations.
ARTICLE IV SUCCESSOR COMPANY
Section 4.1.
.
Merger, Consolidation or Sale of Assets
The Company shall not consolidate with or merge into any other Person or sell, lease or transfer all or substantially all of its assets (determined on a consolidated basis), unless:
(a)
either (i) in the case of a merger or consolidation, the Company shall be the continuing or surviving Person or (ii) the Person formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or the Person which acquires the Company's assets is a Person organized in the United States of America (including any state or the District of Columbia) and expressly assumes by supplemental indenture the due and punctual payment of the principal of and interest on the Notes and the performance of every covenant of this Indenture on the Company's part;
(b)
immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Event of Default, and no Default, shall have happened and be continuing; and
(c)
the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel each stating that such consolidation, merger, sale, lease or transfer and the related supplemental indenture, if applicable, comply with this Indenture and that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to such transaction have been complied with.
Section 4.2.
.
Successor Company Substituted
Upon such consolidation, merger or sale, the successor Person formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or to which such sale is made (each a "") shall succeed to, and be substituted for the Company (so that from and after the date of such consolidation, merger, sale, lease, conveyance or other disposition, the provisions of this Indenture referring to the "Company"
Successor Company
shall instead refer to the successor Person and not to the Company), and may exercise every right and power of the Company under this Indenture with the same effect as if such successor Person had been named as the Company herein, and the predecessor Person shall be released from all obligations and covenants under this Indenture and the Notes.
ARTICLE V OPTIONAL REDEMPTIONS OF NOTES
Section 5.1.
.
Optional Redemptions
  
(a)
Prior to December 15, 2021, the Notes are redeemable at the Company's election, in whole or in part, at any time at a redemption price equal to the greater of:
(1)
100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed; and
(2)
as determined by an Independent Investment Banker, the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the Notes to be redeemed (not including any portion of such payments of interest accrued to the date of redemption) discounted to the Redemption Date on a semiannual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Adjusted Treasury Rate, plus 35 basis points
, in either of the above cases, accrued and unpaid interest on the Notes to be redeemed to the Redemption Date.
plus
(b)
On or after December 15, 2021, the Company may redeem the Notes at its election, in whole or in part, at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption.
Section 5.2.
.
Election to Redeem
The Company shall evidence its election to redeem any Notes pursuant to Section 5.1 by a Board Resolution or an Officers' Certificate, in either case delivered to the Trustee.
Section 5.3.
.
Notice of Redemption
 
(a)
The Company shall mail or cause to be mailed a notice of redemption, in the manner provided for in Section 11.2, at least 30 but not more than 60 days before the Redemption Date, to each Holder of Notes to be redeemed at its registered address; , , that redemption notices may be given more than 60 days prior to a Redemption Date if the notice is issued in connection with a defeasance of the Notes pursuant to Article VIII of this Indenture or a satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture.  Notices of redemption shall not be conditional.  If the Trustee does not give the redemption notice, the Company shall deliver a copy of the notice to the Trustee.
provided
however
(b)
If either (i) the Company is not redeeming all Outstanding Notes, or (ii) the Company elects to have the Trustee give notice of redemption, then the Company shall deliver to the Trustee, at least 45 days prior to the Redemption Date (unless the Trustee is
satisfied with a shorter period), an Officers' Certificate requesting that the Trustee select the Notes to be redeemed and/or give notice of redemption and setting forth the information required by paragraph (c) of this Section 5.3.  If the Company elects to have the Trustee give notice of redemption, the Trustee shall give the notice in the name of the Company and at the Company's expense.
(c)
All notices of redemption shall state:
(i)
the Redemption Date;
(ii)
the redemption price (or the method by which it will be determined) and the amount of any accrued interest that will be payable as provided in Section 5.6;
(iii)
whether or not the Company is redeeming all Outstanding Notes;
(iv)
if the Company is not redeeming all Outstanding Notes, the aggregate principal amount of Notes that the Company is redeeming and the aggregate principal amount of Notes that will be Outstanding after the partial redemption, as well as the identification of the particular Notes, or portions of the particular Notes, that the Company is redeeming;
(v)
if the Company is redeeming only part of a Note, the notice that relates to that Note shall state that on and after the Redemption Date, upon surrender of that Note, the Holder will receive, without charge, a new Note or Notes of authorized denominations for the principal amount of the Note remaining unredeemed;
(vi)
that on the Redemption Date the redemption price and any accrued interest payable to the Redemption Date as provided in Section 5.6 will become due and payable in respect of each Note, or the portion of each Note, to be redeemed, and, unless the Company defaults in making the redemption payment, that interest on each Note, or the portion of each Note, to be redeemed, will cease to accrue on and after the Redemption Date;
(vii)
the name and address of the Paying Agent and the place or places where a Holder must surrender the Holder's Notes for payment of the redemption price; and
(viii)
the CUSIP or ISIN number, if any, listed in the notice or printed on the Notes, and that no representation is made as to the accuracy or correctness of such CUSIP or ISIN number.
Section 5.4.
.
Selection of Notes to Be Redeemed in Part
 
(a)
If the Company is not redeeming all Outstanding Notes, the Trustee shall select the Notes to be redeemed in compliance with the requirements of the principal national securities exchange, if any, on which the Notes are listed or, if the Notes are not then listed on a national securities exchange, on a basis (subject to the procedures of DTC) or, to the extent a basis is not permitted, by lot or in another fair and reasonable manner chosen by the Trustee.  The Trustee shall make the selection from the Outstanding Notes not previously
pro rata
pro rata
called for redemption.  The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company in writing of the Notes selected for redemption and, in the case of any Notes selected for partial redemption, the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed.  In the event of a partial redemption by lot, the Trustee shall select the particular Notes to be redeemed not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the relevant Redemption Date from the Outstanding Notes not previously called for redemption.  The Company may redeem Notes in denominations of $2,000 or less only in whole.  The Trustee may select for redemption portions (equal to $2,000 or any integral multiple of $1,000 thereafter) of the principal of Notes that have denominations larger than $2,000.
(b)
For all purposes of this Indenture, unless the context otherwise requires, all provisions relating to redemption of Notes shall relate, in the case of any Note redeemed or to be redeemed only in part, to the portion of the principal amount of that Note which has been or is to be redeemed.
Section 5.5.
.
Deposit of Redemption Price
Prior to 10:00 a.m. New York City time on the relevant Redemption Date, the Company shall deposit with the Trustee or with a Paying Agent (or, if the Company is acting as Paying Agent, segregate and hold in trust as provided in Section 2.4) an amount of money in immediately available funds sufficient to pay the redemption price of, and accrued interest, if any, on, all the Notes that the Company is redeeming on that date.  The Trustee or Paying Agent shall promptly return to the Company any money deposited with the Trustee or the Paying Agent by the Company in excess of the amounts necessary to pay the redemption price of and accrued interest, if any, on all Notes to be redeemed.
Section 5.6.
.
Notes Payable on Redemption Date
If the Company, or the Trustee on behalf of the Company, gives notice of redemption in accordance with this Article V, the Notes, or the portions of Notes, called for redemption, shall, on the Redemption Date, become due and payable at the redemption price specified in the notice (together with accrued interest, if any, to the Redemption Date), and from and after the Redemption Date (unless the Company shall default in the payment of the redemption price and accrued interest) the Notes or the portions of Notes shall cease to bear interest.  Upon surrender of any Note for redemption in accordance with the notice, the Company shall pay the Notes at the redemption price, together with accrued interest, if any, to the Redemption Date (subject to the rights of Holders of record on the relevant Record Date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date).  If the Company shall fail to pay any Note called for redemption upon its surrender for redemption, the principal shall, until paid, bear interest from the Redemption Date at the rate borne by the Notes.
Section 5.7.
.
Unredeemed Portions of Partially Redeemed Note
Upon surrender of a Note that is to be redeemed in part, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and make available for delivery to the Holder of the Note at the expense of the Company, a new Note or Notes, of any authorized denomination as requested by the Holder, in an aggregate principal amount equal to, and in exchange for, the unredeemed portion of the principal of the Note surrendered, provided that each new Note shall be in a principal amount of $2,000 or integral multiple of $1,000 thereafter.
ARTICLE VI DEFAULTS AND REMEDIES
Section 6.1.
.
Events of Default
An "Event of Default" with respect to the Notes is any one of the following events:
(a)
a default for 30 days or more in payment of any interest (including Additional Interest) payable with respect to the Notes when due;
(b)
a default in payment of principal, or premium, if any, at maturity or on redemption or otherwise of the Notes when and as due;
(c)
a default for 90 days after notice to the Company by the Trustee, or by the Holders of 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Notes, in the performance of any other agreement in this Indenture;
(d)
principal of or interest on any indebtedness for borrowed money of the Company or any Significant Subsidiary is not paid within any applicable grace period after payment is due, or the principal thereof is accelerated by the holders thereof because of a default, and the total principal amount of such indebtedness in either case exceeds $100.0 million and such acceleration is not rescinded or annulled within 30 days; that such Event of Default will be cured or waived if (A) the default that resulted in the acceleration of such other indebtedness is cured or waived; and (B) the acceleration is rescinded or annulled;
provided
(e)
a Bankruptcy Law Event of Default; and
(f)
except as otherwise provided for in this Indenture, any Note Guarantee ceases to be in full force and effect, or any Note Guarantor denies or disaffirms its obligation under its Note Guarantee.
The foregoing will constitute Events of Default whatever the reason for any such Event of Default and whether it is voluntary or involuntary or is effected by operation of law or pursuant to any judgment, decree or order of any court or any order, rule or regulation of any administrative or governmental body.
Section 6.2.
.
Acceleration
If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing with respect to the Notes, then either the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% of the principal amount of the Outstanding Notes may declare to be due and payable immediately the Outstanding principal amount of the Notes, together with interest, if any, accrued thereon; , , that if the Event of Default is a Bankruptcy Law Event of Default, all the Notes, together with interest, if any, accrued thereon, will become immediately due and payable without further action or notice on the part of the Trustee or the Holders.
provided
however
Section 6.3.
.
Other Remedies
 
(a)
If an Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may pursue any available remedy to collect the payment of principal of and interest on the Notes or to enforce the performance of any provision of the Notes or this Indenture.
(b)
The Trustee may maintain a proceeding even if it does not possess any of the Notes or does not produce any of them in the proceeding.  A delay or omission by the Trustee or any Holder in exercising any right or remedy accruing upon an Event of Default shall not impair the right or remedy or constitute a waiver of or acquiescence in the Event of Default.  No remedy is exclusive of any other remedy.  All available remedies are cumulative to the extent permitted by law.
(c)
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture, the sole remedy for an Event of Default resulting from:
(i)
any breach of any obligation to file or furnish any documents or reports required to be filed or furnished, as the case may be, with the SEC pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act; or
(ii)
any failure to comply with the requirements of Section 314(a)(1) of the TIA or the reporting obligations under this Indenture
shall be a requirement that the Company pay Additional Interest, and Holders shall not have any right under this Indenture to accelerate the maturity of the Notes as a result of any such breach except as described below.  If an Event of Default relating to any such obligation continues for 90 days after notice thereof is given in accordance with this Indenture, the Company shall pay Additional Interest at an annual rate equal to:
(A)
0.25% per annum of the principal amount of the Outstanding Notes from the 90th day following such notice to but not including the 180th day following such notice (or such shorter period until such Event of Default has been cured or waived); and
(B)
0.50% per annum of the principal amount of the Outstanding Notes from the 180th day following such notice to but not including the 365th day following such notice (or such shorter period until such Event of Default has been cured or waived).
On such 365th day (or earlier, if such Event of Default is cured or waived prior to such 365th day), such Additional Interest will cease to accrue, and the Notes will be subject to acceleration as provided in Section 6.2 if the Event of Default is continuing.  This paragraph will not affect the rights of Holders in the event of the occurrence of any other Event of Default.  
Section 6.4.
.
Rescinding Acceleration; Waiver of Past Defaults
The Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Notes may on behalf of all Holders of the Notes rescind a declaration of acceleration or waive any past Default or Event of Default with respect to the Notes except:
(a)
a Default or an Event of Default not theretofor cured in payment of the principal of, or interest or premium, if any, on any Note; or
(b)
a Default or an Event of Default in respect of a provision which under this Indenture cannot be modified or amended without the consent of the Holder of each  Note as specified in Section 9.2.
Section 6.5.
.
Control by Majority
The Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Notes may, on behalf of all Holders, direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedies available to the Trustee or of exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee.  Subject to Section 7.1 and Section 7.2, however, the Trustee may refuse to follow any direction that conflicts with law or this Indenture; , , that the Trustee may take any other action deemed proper by the Trustee that is not inconsistent with such direction.
provided
however
Section 6.6.
.
Limitation on Suits
No Holder shall have any right to institute any proceeding with respect to this Indenture or the Notes or for any remedy under this Indenture or under the Notes unless:
(a)
such Holder shall have previously given to the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default;
(b)
the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Notes have also made such a written request;
(c)
such Holder or Holders have provided indemnity satisfactory to the Trustee to institute such proceeding as Trustee;
(d)
the Trustee has not received from the Holders of a majority of principal amount of the Outstanding Notes a direction inconsistent with such request; and
(e)
the Trustee has failed to initiate such proceeding within 90 calendar days of such notice;
, , that the limitations in this Section 6.6 do not apply to a suit initiated by a Holder for the enforcement of payment of the principal of, or premium or interest, if any, on such Notes on or after the respective due dates expressed in such Notes after any applicable grace periods have expired.
provided
however
Section 6.7.
.
Rights of Holders to Receive Payment
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture (including, without limitation, Section 6.6), the right of any Holder to receive payment of principal of or interest on the Notes held by such Holder, on or after the respective due dates, Redemption Dates or repurchase date expressed in this Indenture or the Notes, or to bring suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after such respective dates, shall not be impaired or affected without the consent of such Holder.
Section 6.8.
.
Collection Suit by Trustee
If an Event of Default specified in Section 6.1 occurs and is continuing, the Trustee is authorized to recover judgment in its own
name and as trustee of an express trust against the Company and each Note Guarantor for the whole amount then due and owing (together with applicable interest on any overdue principal and, to the extent lawful, interest on overdue interest) and the amounts provided for in Section 7.7.
Section 6.9.
.
Trustee May File Proofs of Claim, etc
 
(a)
The Trustee is authorized to (irrespective of whether the principal of the Notes is then due):
(i)
file such proofs of claim and other papers or documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Trustee and the Holders under this Indenture and the Notes allowed in any bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation or other judicial proceedings relative to the Company, any Note Guarantor or any Subsidiary of the Company or their respective creditors or properties; and
(ii)
collect and receive any moneys or other property payable or deliverable in respect of any such claims and distribute them in accordance with this Indenture.
Any receiver, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator (or other similar official) in any such proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder to make such payments to the Trustee and, in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Holders, to pay to the Trustee any amount due to it for the reasonable compensation, expenses, taxes, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agent and counsel, and any other amounts due to the Trustee pursuant to Section 7.7.
(b)
Nothing in this Indenture shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Holder any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Notes or the rights of any Holder thereof, or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder in any such proceeding.
Section 6.10.
.
Priorities
If the Trustee collects any money, or any money or property distributable pursuant to this Article VI after the occurrence of any Event of Default, it shall pay out the money or property in the following order:
FIRST:  to the Trustee (including any predecessor trustee) for amounts due under Section 7.7;
SECOND:  if the Holders proceed against the Company or any Note Guarantor directly without the Trustee in accordance with this Indenture, to Holders for their collection costs;
THIRD:  to Holders for amounts due and unpaid on the Notes for principal and interest, ratably, without preference or priority of any kind, according to the amounts due and payable on the Notes for principal and interest, respectively; and
FOURTH:  to the Company or, to the extent the Trustee collects any amount pursuant to from any Note Guarantor, to such Note Guarantor, or to such party as a court of competent jurisdiction shall direct.
Article X
The Trustee may, upon notice to the Company, fix a record date and payment date for any payment to Holders pursuant to this Section 6.10.
Section 6.11.
.
Undertaking for Costs
In any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken or omitted by it as Trustee, a court in its discretion may require the filing by any party litigant in the suit of an undertaking to pay the costs of the suit, and the court in its discretion may assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees, against any party litigant in the suit, having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by the party litigant.  This Section 6.11 does not apply to a suit by the Trustee, a suit by a Holder pursuant to Section 6.7 or a suit by Holders of more than 10% in principal amount of Outstanding Notes.
ARTICLE VII TRUSTEE
Section 7.1.
.
Duties of Trustee
 
(a)
If an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Trustee shall exercise such of the rights and powers vested in it by this Indenture and use the same degree of care and skill in their exercise as a prudent person would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of such person's own affairs.
(b)
Except during the continuance of an Event of Default:
(i)
the Trustee undertakes to perform such duties and only such duties as are specifically set forth in this Indenture and no implied covenants or obligations shall be read into this Indenture against the Trustee; and
(ii)
in the absence of bad faith its part, the Trustee may conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon certificates or opinions furnished to the Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Indenture.  However, in the case of any such certificates or opinions which by any provisions hereof are specifically required to be furnished to the Trustee, the Trustee shall examine such certificates and opinions to determine whether or not they conform to the requirements of this Indenture.
(c)
The Trustee may not be relieved from liability for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act or its own bad faith or willful misconduct, except that:
(i)
this paragraph (c) does not limit the effect of paragraph (b) or (f) of this Section 7.1;
(ii)
the Trustee shall not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by a Trust Officer unless it is proved that the Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts; and
(iii)
the Trustee shall not be liable with respect to any action it takes or omits to take in good faith in accordance with a direction received by it pursuant to Section 6.2, Section 6.4 or Section 6.5.
(d)
The Trustee shall not be liable for interest on any money received by it except as the Trustee may agree in writing with the Company.
(e)
Money held in trust by the Trustee need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.
(f)
No provision of this Indenture shall require the Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur financial liability in the performance of any of its duties hereunder or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers, if it shall have reasonable grounds to believe that repayment of such funds or adequate indemnity against such risk or liability is not reasonably assured to it.
(g)
Every provision of this Indenture relating to the conduct or affecting the liability of or affording protection to the Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of this Article VII and to the provisions of the TIA.
(h)
Unless otherwise specifically provided in this Indenture, any demand, request, direction or notice from the Company shall be sufficient if signed by an Officer of the Company.
(i)
The Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Indenture at the request or direction of any of the Holders unless such Holders shall have offered to the Trustee security or indemnity satisfactory to the Trustee against the costs, expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses) and liabilities that might be incurred by it in compliance with such request or direction.
Section 7.2.
.
Rights of Trustee
Subject to Section 7.1:
(a)
The Trustee may conclusively rely and shall be fully protected in acting or refraining from acting on any document reasonably believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper Person.  The Trustee need not investigate any fact or matter stated in the document.
(b)
Before the Trustee acts or refrains from acting, it may require an Officers' Certificate or an Opinion of Counsel or both.  The Trustee shall not be liable for any action it takes or omits to take in good faith in reliance on an Officers' Certificate or Opinion of Counsel.
(c)
The Trustee may act through its attorneys and agents and shall not be responsible for the misconduct or negligence of any agent appointed with due care by it hereunder.
(d)
The Trustee shall not be liable for any action it takes, suffers or omits to take in good faith which it believes to be authorized or within its rights or powers.
(e)
The Trustee may consult with counsel of its selection, and the advice or opinion of counsel or any Opinion of Counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection from liability in respect to any action taken, omitted or suffered by it hereunder in good faith and in reliance thereon.
(f)
If the Trustee shall determine, it shall be entitled to examine the books, records and premises of the Company, personally or by agent or attorney and shall incur no liability or additional liability of any kind by reason of such inquiry or investigation.
(g)
The Trustee shall not be deemed to have notice or be charged with knowledge of any Default or Event of Default unless a Trust Officer of the Trustee has actual knowledge thereof or has received written notice from the Company or any Holder of any event which is in fact such a default at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, and such notice references the Notes and this Indenture.
(h)
The rights, privileges, protections, immunities and benefits given to the Trustee, including, without limitation, its right to be indemnified, are extended to, and shall be enforceable by, the Trustee in each of its capacities hereunder, and to each agent, Custodian and other Person employed to act hereunder.
(i)
The Trustee may request that the Company deliver a certificate setting forth the names of individuals and/or titles of Officers authorized at such time to take specified actions pursuant to this Indenture, which certificate may be signed by any person authorized to sign an Officers' Certificate, including any person specified as so authorized in any such certificate previously delivered and not superseded.
(j)
Anything in this Indenture notwithstanding, in no event shall the Trustee be liable for special, indirect, punitive or consequential loss or damage of any kind whatsoever (including but not limited to loss of profit), even if the Trustee has been advised as to the likelihood of such loss or damage and regardless of the form of action.
(k)
The Trustee shall not be responsible or liable for any failure or delay in the performance of its obligations under this Indenture arising out of or caused, directly or indirectly, by circumstances beyond its reasonable control, including, without limitation,acts of God; earthquakes; fire; flood; terrorism; wars and other military disturbances; sabotage; epidemics; riots; interruptions; loss or malfunctions of utilities, computer (hardware or software) or communication services; accidents; labor disputes; acts of civil or military authority and governmental action.
Section 7.3.
.
Individual Rights of Trustee
The Trustee in its individual or any other capacity may become the owner or pledgee of Notes and may otherwise deal with the Company, the Note Guarantors or any of their Affiliates with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee.  However, in the event the Trustee acquires any conflicting interest it must eliminate such conflict within 90 days, apply to the SEC for permission to continue as trustee, or
resign.  Any Paying Agent, Registrar or co-Registrar may do the same with like rights and duties.  However, the Trustee must comply with Section 7.10 and Section 7.11.
Section 7.4.
.
Trustee's Disclaimer
The Trustee shall not be responsible for and makes no representation as to the validity or adequacy of this Indenture or the Notes, it shall not be accountable for the Company's use of the proceeds from the Notes, and it shall not be responsible for any statement of the Company in this Indenture or in any document issued in connection with the sale of the Notes or in the Notes other than the Trustee's certificate of authentication.
Section 7.5.
.
Notice of Defaults
If a Default or Event of Default occurs and is continuing and if a Trust Officer has knowledge thereof, the Trustee shall mail to each Holder notice of the Default or Event of Default within 90 days after the occurrence thereof, unless cured or waived.  Except in the case of a Default or Event of Default in payment of principal of or interest, if any, on any Note (including payments pursuant to the optional redemption or required repurchase provisions of such Note, if any), the Trustee may withhold the notice if and so long as the board of directors, the executive committee or a trust committee of directors and/or Trust Officers of the Trustee in good faith determines that withholding the notice is in the interests of the Holders of the Notes.
Section 7.6.
.
Reports by Trustee to Holders
The Trustee shall comply with TIA  313.  The Company agrees to notify promptly the Trustee whenever the Notes become listed on any stock exchange and of any delisting thereof.
Section 7.7.
.
Compensation and Indemnity
 
(a)
The Company and the Note Guarantors shall, jointly and severally, pay to the Trustee from time to time compensation for its acceptance of this Indenture and services hereunder as the Company and the Trustee shall from time to time agree in writing.  The Trustee's compensation shall not be limited by any law on compensation of a trustee of an express trust.  The Company shall reimburse the Trustee upon request for all reasonable expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by it, including costs of collection, costs of preparing and reviewing reports, certificates and other documents, costs of preparation and mailing of notices to Holders and reasonable costs of counsel retained by the Trustee in connection with the delivery of an Opinion of Counsel or otherwise, in addition to the compensation for its services.  Such expenses shall include the reasonable compensation and expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee's agents, counsel, accountants, experts and other Persons not regularly in its employ.
(b)
The Company and the Note Guarantors shall, jointly and severally, indemnify the Trustee against any and all loss, liability or expense (including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses) incurred by it without negligence, willful misconduct or bad faith on its part in connection with the acceptance and administration of this trust and the performance of its duties hereunder, including the costs and expenses of enforcing this Indenture (including this Section 7.7) and of defending itself against any claims (whether asserted by any Holder, the Company, any Note Guarantor or otherwise).  The Trustee shall notify the Company promptly of any claim for which it may seek indemnity.  Failure by the Trustee to so notify the Company
shall not relieve the Company of its obligations hereunder.  The Company shall defend the claim and the Trustee may have separate counsel and the Company shall pay the fees and expenses of such counsel; provided that the Company shall not be required to pay such fees and expenses if it assumes the Trustee's defense and, in the reasonable judgment of outside counsel to the Trustee, there is no conflict of interest between the Company and the Trustee in connection with such defense.  The Company need not reimburse any expense or indemnify against any loss, liability or expense incurred by the Trustee through the Trustee's own negligence, willful misconduct or bad faith.
(c)
To secure each of the Company's and the Note Guarantors' payment obligations in this Section 7.7, the Trustee shall have a Lien prior to the Notes on all money or property held or collected by the Trustee other than money or property held in trust to pay principal of and interest on particular Notes.  The Trustee's right to receive payment of any amounts due under this Section 7.7 shall not be subordinate to any other liability or indebtedness of the Company.
(d)
The Company's and the Note Guarantors' payment obligations pursuant to this Section 7.7 shall survive the discharge of the Notes, the termination for any reason of this Indenture and the resignation or removal of the Trustee.  When the Trustee incurs expenses or renders services in connection with the occurrence of a Bankruptcy Law Event of Default, the expenses (including the reasonable charges and expenses of its counsel) are intended to constitute expenses of administration under any Bankruptcy Law; , , that this shall not affect the Trustee's rights as set forth in this Section 7.7 or Section 6.10.
provided
however
(e)
"Trustee" for purposes of this Section 7.7 shall include any predecessor Trustee; provided, however, that the negligence, willful misconduct or bad faith of any Trustee hereunder shall not affect the rights of any other Trustee hereunder.
Section 7.8.
.
Replacement of Trustee
 
(a)
The Trustee may resign at any time by so notifying the Company.  The Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Notes may remove the Trustee by so notifying the Trustee and may appoint a successor Trustee reasonably acceptable to the Company.  The Company shall remove the Trustee if:
(i)
the Trustee fails to comply with Section 7.10;
(ii)
the Trustee is adjudged bankrupt or insolvent;
(iii)
a receiver or other public officer takes charge of the Trustee or its property; or
(iv)
the Trustee otherwise becomes incapable of acting.
(b)
If the Trustee resigns or is removed by the Company or by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Notes and such Holders do not reasonably promptly appoint a successor Trustee, or if a vacancy exists in the office of the Trustee for any
reason (the Trustee in such event being referred to herein as the retiring Trustee), the Company shall promptly appoint a successor Trustee.
(c)
A successor Trustee shall deliver a written acceptance of its appointment to the retiring Trustee and to the Company.  Thereupon the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective, and the successor Trustee shall have all the rights, powers and duties of the Trustee under this Indenture.  The successor Trustee shall mail a notice of its succession to Holders.  The retiring Trustee shall upon payment of its charges and all other amounts payable to it hereunder, promptly transfer all property held by it as Trustee to the successor Trustee, subject to the Lien provided for in Section 7.7.
(d)
If a successor Trustee does not take office within 30 days after the retiring Trustee resigns or is removed, the retiring Trustee or the Holders of 10% in principal amount of the Outstanding Notes may petition, at the Company's expense, any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee.
(e)
If the Trustee fails to comply with Section 7.10, any Holder may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee and the appointment of a successor Trustee.
(f)
Notwithstanding the replacement of the Trustee pursuant to this Section 7.8, the Company's obligations under Section 7.7 shall continue for the benefit of the retiring Trustee.
Section 7.9.
.
Successor Trustee by Merger
 
(a)
If the Trustee consolidates with, merges or converts into, or sells or transfers all or substantially all its corporate trust business or assets to, another Person, the resulting, surviving or transferee Person without any further act shall be the successor Trustee; , that such Person shall otherwise be qualified and eligible under this Article VII.
provided
(b)
In case at the time such successor or successors to the Trustee shall succeed to the trusts created by this Indenture, any of the Notes shall have been authenticated but not delivered, any such successor to the Trustee may adopt the certificate of authentication of any predecessor trustee, and deliver such Notes so authenticated; and in case at that time any of the Notes shall not have been authenticated, any successor to the Trustee may authenticate such Notes either in the name of any predecessor hereunder or in the name of the successor to the Trustee; and in all such cases such certificates shall have the full force which it is anywhere in the Notes or in this Indenture provided that the certificate of the Trustee shall have.
Section 7.10.
.
Eligibility; Disqualification
The Trustee shall at all times satisfy the requirements of TIA  310(a).  The Trustee shall have a combined capital and surplus of at least $50 million as set forth in its most recent published annual report of condition.  The Trustee shall comply with TIA  310(b); , , that there shall be excluded from the operation of TIA  310(b)(1) any indenture or indentures under which other securities or certificates of interest or participation in other securities of the Company are outstanding if the requirements for such exclusion set forth in TIA  310(b)(1) are met.
provided
however
Section 7.11.
.
Preferential Collection of Claims Against Company
The Trustee shall comply with TIA  311(a), excluding any creditor relationship listed in TIA  311(b).  A Trustee who has resigned or been removed shall be subject to TIA  311(a) to the extent indicated.
ARTICLE VIII DEFEASANCE; DISCHARGE OF INDENTURE
Section 8.1.
.
Legal Defeasance and Covenant Defeasance
 
(a)
The Company may, at its option, at any time, elect to have either paragraph (b) or (c) of this Section 8.1 be applied to all Outstanding Notes upon compliance with the conditions set forth in Section 8.2.
(b)
Upon the Company's exercise under paragraph (a) of this Section 8.1 of the option applicable to this paragraph (b), the Company shall, subject to the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 8.2, be deemed to have been discharged from its obligations with respect to all Outstanding Notes on the date all of the conditions set forth in Section 8.2 are satisfied (hereinafter, "").  For this purpose, Legal Defeasance means that the Company shall be deemed to have paid and discharged the entire indebtedness represented by the Outstanding Notes, which shall thereafter be deemed to be Outstanding only for the purposes of Section 8.3 and the other Sections of this Indenture referred to in clause (i) or (ii) of this paragraph (b), and to have satisfied all its other obligations under such Notes and this Indenture (and the Trustee, on demand of and at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging the same), except for the following provisions, which shall survive until otherwise terminated or discharged hereunder:
Legal Defeasance
(i)
the rights of Holders of Outstanding Notes to receive solely from the trust fund described in Section 8.3, and as more fully set forth in Section 8.3, payments in respect of the principal of and interest on such Notes when such payments are due,
(ii)
the Company's obligations with respect to such Notes under Article II and Section 3.2,
(iii)
the rights (including indemnity rights under Section 7.7), powers, trusts, duties and immunities of the Trustee hereunder and the Company's obligations in connection therewith, and
(iv)
this Article VIII.
Subject to compliance with this Article VIII, the Company may exercise its option under this paragraph (b) notwithstanding the prior exercise of its option under paragraph (c) of this Section 8.1.
(c)
Upon the Company's exercise under paragraph (a) of this Section 8.1 of the option applicable to this paragraph (c), the Company shall, subject to the satisfaction of the applicable conditions set forth in Section 8.2, be released from its obligations under the
covenants contained in Section 3.4, Section 3.5, Section 3.7, Section 3.8, Section 3.9 and with respect to the Outstanding Notes on and after the date the conditions set forth below are satisfied (hereinafter, ""), and the Notes shall thereafter be deemed not Outstanding for the purposes of any direction, waiver, consent or declaration or act of Holders (and the consequences of any thereof) in connection with such covenants, but shall continue to be Outstanding for all other purposes hereunder (it being understood that such Notes shall not be deemed Outstanding for accounting purposes).  For this purpose, such Covenant Defeasance means that, with respect to the Outstanding Notes, the Company may omit to comply with and shall have no liability in respect of any term, condition or limitation set forth in any such covenant, whether directly or indirectly, by reason of any reference elsewhere herein to any such covenant or by reason of any reference in any such covenant to any other provision herein or in any other document and such omission to comply shall not constitute a Default or an Event or Default under Section 6.1, or ), but, except as specified above, the remainder of this Indenture and such Notes shall be unaffected thereby.
Section 4.1
Covenant Defeasance
(c)
(d)
(f
Section 8.2.
.
Conditions to Defeasance
The Company may exercise its Legal Defeasance option or its Covenant Defeasance option only if:
(a)
the Company has irrevocably deposited with the Trustee, in trust, U.S. Legal Tender and/or non-callable U.S. Government Obligations, which through the scheduled payment of interest and principal thereof in accordance with their terms will provide money in an amount sufficient, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants, to pay the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, in respect of the Notes on the stated maturity date of such principal and any installment of principal, or interest or premium, if any;
(b)
in the case of an election under hereof, the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel confirming that:  (i) the Company has received from, or there has been published by, the Internal Revenue Service a ruling, or (ii) since the date hereof, there has been a change in the applicable federal income tax law, in either case to the effect that, and based thereon such Opinion of Counsel shall confirm that, the Holders of the Outstanding Notes will not recognize income, gain or loss for federal income tax purposes as a result of such Legal Defeasance and will be subject to federal income tax on the same amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such Legal Defeasance had not occurred;
Section 8.1(b)
(c)
in the case of an election under hereof, the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel confirming that the Holders of the Outstanding Notes will not recognize income, gain or loss for federal income tax purposes as a result of such Covenant Defeasance and will be subject to federal income tax on the same amounts, in the manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such Covenant Defeasance had not occurred;
Section 8.1(c)
(d)
no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing on the date of such deposit or, insofar as hereof is concerned, at any time in the period ending on the 124th day after the date of such deposit (it being understood that this condition shall not be deemed satisfied until the expiration of such period);
Section 6.1(e)
(e)
such Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance shall not result in a breach or violation of, or constitute a default under any material agreement or instrument (other than this Indenture) to which the Company is a party or by which the Company is bound (other than a breach, violation or default resulting from the borrowing of funds to be applied to such deposit);
(f)
the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate stating that the deposit made by the Company pursuant to its election under or hereof was not made by the Company with the intent of preferring the Holders of the affected Notes over the other creditors of the Company with the intent of defeating, hindering, delaying or defrauding creditors of the Company, or others;
Section 8.1(b)
Section 8.1(c)
(g)
the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel, subject to customary exceptions and qualifications, reasonably acceptable to the Trustee to the effect that the trust resulting from the deposit does not constitute, or is qualified as, a regulated investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940; and
(h)
the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent provided for or relating to the Legal Defeasance or the Covenant Defeasance have been complied with.
Section 8.3.
.
Application of Trust Money
The Trustee shall hold in trust U.S. Legal Tender or U.S. Government Obligations deposited with it pursuant to this Article VIII.  It shall apply the deposited U.S. Legal Tender and/or U.S. Government Obligations through the Paying Agent and in accordance with this Indenture to the payment of principal of and interest on the Notes.
Section 8.4.
.
Repayment to Company
 
(a)
The Trustee and the Paying Agent shall promptly turn over to the Company upon request any excess money or securities held by them upon payment of all the obligations under this Indenture.
(b)
Subject to any applicable abandoned property law, the Trustee and the Paying Agent shall pay to the Company upon request any money held by them for the payment of principal of or interest on the Notes that remains unclaimed for two years, and, thereafter, Holders entitled to the money will be deemed general creditors of the Company with respect to the money and must look only to the Company and not to the Trustee for payment.
Section 8.5.
.
Indemnity for U.S. Government Obligations
The Company shall pay and shall indemnify the Trustee against any tax, fee or other charge imposed on or assessed against deposited U.S. Government Obligations or the principal and interest received on such U.S. Government Obligations.
Section 8.6.
.
Reinstatement
If the Trustee or Paying Agent is unable to apply any U.S. Legal Tender or U.S. Government Obligations in accordance with this Article VIII by reason of any legal proceeding or by reason of any order or judgment of any court or governmental authority enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting such application, the
obligations of the Company under this Indenture and the Notes shall be revived and reinstated as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to this Article VIII until such time as the Trustee or Paying Agent is permitted to apply all such U.S. Legal Tender or U.S. Government Obligations in accordance with this Article VIII; , , that, if the Company has made any payment of principal of or interest on any Notes because of the reinstatement of its obligations, the Company shall be subrogated to the rights of the Holders of such Notes to receive such payment from the U.S. Legal Tender or U.S. Government Obligations held by the Trustee or Paying Agent.
provided
however
Section 8.7.
.
Satisfaction and Discharge
At the option of the Company, the Indenture shall be discharged and shall cease to be of further effect (except as to surviving rights of registration, transfer and exchange of the Notes, any of the provisions referred to in clauses (i)  (iv) of , which shall survive until otherwise terminated or discharged) as to all Outstanding Notes when:
Section 8.1(b)
(a)
either:
(i)
all the Notes previously authenticated and delivered (except lost, stolen or destroyed Notes which have been replaced or paid and Notes for whose payment money has theretofor been deposited in trust or segregated and held in trust by the Company and thereafter repaid to the Company or discharged from such trust) have been delivered to the Trustee for cancellation, or
(ii)
all Notes not theretofor delivered to the Trustee for cancellation have become due and payable, will become due and payable at their stated maturity within one year, or are to be called for redemption within one year under arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for the giving of notice of redemption by the Trustee, and the Company has irrevocably deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee in trust U.S. Legal Tender or U.S. Government Obligations sufficient to pay and discharge the entire indebtedness on the Notes not theretofor delivered to the Trustee for cancellation, for principal of and interest on the Notes to the date of deposit, together with irrevocable instructions from the Company directing the Trustee to apply such funds to the payment;
(b)
the Company has paid or caused to be paid all other sums payable under this Indenture and the Notes by the Company; and
(c)
the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each to the effect that all conditions precedent under this Indenture relating to the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture have been satisfied.
(d)
Notwithstanding the provisions contained in this Article VIII, the obligations of the Company to the Trustee under Section 7.7 shall survive.
ARTICLE IX AMENDMENTS
Section 9.1.
.
Without Consent of Holders
 
(a)
The Company, the Note Guarantors and the Trustee may amend this Indenture or the Notes without notice to or consent of any Holder:
(i)
to cure any ambiguity, omission, defect or inconsistency;
(ii)
to comply with Article IV in respect of the assumption by a Successor Company of the obligations of the Company under the Notes and this Indenture;
(iii)
to provide for uncertificated Notes in addition to or in place of certificated Notes; , , that the uncertificated Notes are issued in registered form for purposes of Section 163(f) of the Code;
provided
however
(iv)
to add guarantees with respect to the Notes or to secure the Notes;
(v)
to add to the covenants of the Company for the benefit of the Holders or to surrender any right or power herein conferred upon the Company in the Indenture;
(vi)
to add any additional Events of Default with respect to the Notes;
(vii)
to comply with any requirements of the SEC in connection with effecting or maintaining the qualification of this Indenture under the TIA;
(viii)
to make any change that would provide any additional rights or benefits to the Holders that does not adversely affect the rights of any Holder in any material respect;
(ix)
to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment by a successor Trustee and to add to or change any of the provisions of the Indenture as are necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts by more than one Trustee; or
(x)
to correct or supplement any provision in this Indenture that may be inconsistent with any other provision of the Indenture or to make any other provisions with respect to matters or questions arising under this Indenture, so long as such actions shall not adversely affect the interests of any Holder.
(b)
After an amendment under this Section 9.1 becomes effective, the Company shall mail to Holders a notice briefly describing such amendment.  The failure to give such notice to all Holders, or any defect therein, shall not impair or affect the validity of an amendment under this Section 9.1.
Section 9.2.
.
With Consent of Holders
 
(a)
The Company, the Note Guarantors and the Trustee may modify or amend this Indenture or the Notes without prior notice to any Holder but with the written consent of the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Notes affected by such modification or amendment (including, without limitation, consents obtained in connection with a purchase of, or tender offer or exchange offer for, Notes).  However, without the consent of each Holder affected, no such modification or amendment may:
(i)
reduce the principal amount of Notes whose Holders must consent to an amendment, supplement or waiver;
(ii)
reduce the rate of or change or have the effect of changing the time for payment of interest, including Defaulted Interest, on any Notes;
(iii)
reduce the principal amount of or change or have the effect of changing the stated maturity of the principal of, or any installment of principal of, any Notes, or change the date on which any Notes may be subject to redemption, or reduce any premium payable upon the redemption thereof or the redemption price therefor;
(iv)
change the currency in which the Notes are payable from that stated in the Notes;
(v)
make any change in the provisions of this Indenture entitling each Holder to receive payment of principal of and premium and interest on such Notes on or after the stated maturity thereof (or, in the case of redemption, on or after the Redemption Date) or to bring suit to enforce such payment, or permitting Holders of a majority in principal amount of Outstanding Notes to waive Defaults or Events of Default;
(vi)
amend, change or modify in any material respect any obligation of the Company to make and consummate a Change of Control Offer in respect of a Change of Control Event that has occurred;
(vii)
eliminate or modify in any manner the obligations of a Note Guarantor with respect to its Note Guarantee, which adversely affects Holders in any material respect, except as expressly otherwise provided for in this Indenture; or
(viii)
change any obligation of the Company to maintain an office or agency in the place and for the purposes specified in this Indenture.
(b)
It shall not be necessary for the consent of the Holders under this Section 9.2 to approve the particular form of any proposed amendment, supplement or waiver, but it shall be sufficient if such consent approves the substance thereof.
(c)
After an amendment, supplement or waiver under this Section 9.2 becomes effective, the Company shall mail to Holders a notice briefly describing such amendment, supplement or waiver.  The failure to give such notice to all Holders, or any defect
therein, shall not impair or affect the validity of an amendment, supplement or waiver under this Section 9.2.
Section 9.3.
.
Compliance with Trust Indenture Act
Every amendment to this Indenture or the Notes shall comply with the TIA as then in effect.
Section 9.4.
.
Revocation and Effect of Consents and Waivers
 
(a)
A consent to an amendment, supplement or waiver by a Holder of a Note shall bind the Holder and every subsequent Holder of that Note or portion of the Note that evidences the same debt as the consenting Holder's Note, even if notation of the consent or waiver is not made on the Note.  However, any such Holder or subsequent Holder may revoke the consent or waiver as to such Holder's Note or portion of the Note if the Trustee receives the notice of revocation before the date the amendment, supplement or waiver becomes effective.  After an amendment, supplement or waiver becomes effective, it shall bind every Holder, except as otherwise provided in this Article IX.  An amendment, supplement or waiver shall become effective upon receipt by the Trustee of the requisite number of written consents under Section 9.2.
(b)
The Company may, but shall not be obligated to, fix a record date, which need not be the date provided in TIA  316(c) to the extent it would otherwise be applicable, for the purpose of determining the Holders entitled to give their consent or take any other action described above or required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Indenture.  If a record date is fixed, then notwithstanding the immediately preceding paragraph, those Persons who were Holders at such record date (or their duly designated proxies), and only those Persons, shall be entitled to give such consent or to revoke any consent previously given or to take any such action, whether or not such Persons continue to be Holders after such record date.  No such consent shall be valid or effective for more than 90 days after such record date.
Section 9.5.
.
Notation on or Exchange of Notes
If an amendment or supplement changes the terms of a Note, the Trustee may require the Holder of the Note to deliver it to the Trustee.  The Trustee may place an appropriate notation on the Note regarding the changed terms and return it to the Holder.  Alternatively, if the Company or the Trustee so determines, the Company in exchange for the Note shall execute and upon Company Order the Trustee will authenticate and make available for delivery a new Note that reflects the changed terms.  Failure to make the appropriate notation or to issue a new Note shall not affect the validity of such amendment or supplement.
Section 9.6.
.
Trustee to Sign Amendments and Supplements
The Trustee shall sign any amendment, supplement or waiver authorized pursuant to this Article IX if the amendment or supplement does not adversely affect the rights, duties, liabilities or immunities of the Trustee.  If it does, the Trustee may but need not sign it.  In signing such amendment or supplement the Trustee shall be entitled to receive indemnity satisfactory to it and to receive, and (subject to Section 7.1 and Section 7.2) shall be fully protected in relying upon, such evidence as it deems appropriate, including, without limitation, solely on an Opinion of Counsel and an Officers' Certificate stating that such amendment, supplement or waiver is authorized or
permitted by this Indenture and that all conditions precedent to the execution of such amendment, supplement or waiver have been complied with.
ARTICLE X NOTE GUARANTEES
Section 10.1.
.
Note Guarantees
 
(a)
Each Note Guarantor hereby fully and unconditionally guarantees, jointly and severally with each other Note Guarantor, to each Holder and the Trustee, the full and punctual payment when due, whether at maturity, by acceleration, by redemption or otherwise, of the Obligations under the Notes and the Indenture (such guaranteed Obligations, the "").  Unless terminated hereunder, each Note Guarantor further agrees (to the extent permitted by law) that the Obligations under the Notes and the Indenture may be extended or renewed, in whole or in part, without notice or further assent from it, and that it will remain bound under this notwithstanding any extension or renewal of any Obligation under the Notes and the Indenture.  Each Note Guarantor hereby agrees to pay, in addition to the amounts stated above, any and all expenses (including reasonable counsel fees and expenses) incurred by the Trustee or the Holders in enforcing or exercising any rights under any Note Guarantee.
Guaranteed Obligations
Article X
(b)
Each Note Guarantor waives presentation to, demand of payment from and protest to the Company of any of the Obligations under the Notes or the Indenture and also waives notice of protest for nonpayment.  Each Note Guarantor waives notice of any default under the Notes or the Obligations under the Notes or the Indenture.  The Obligations of each Note Guarantor hereunder shall not be affected by (i) the failure of any Holder to assert any claim or demand or to enforce any right or remedy against the Company or any other Person under this Indenture, the Notes or any other agreement or otherwise; (ii) any extension or renewal of any thereof; (iii) any rescission, waiver, amendment or modification of any of the terms or provisions of this Indenture, the Notes or any other agreement; (iv) the release of any security held by any Holder or the Trustee for the Obligations under the Notes or the Indenture; (v) the failure of any Holder to exercise any right or remedy against the other Note Guarantor; or (vi) any change in the ownership of the Company.
(c)
Each Note Guarantor further agrees that its Note Guarantee herein constitutes a guarantee of payment when due (and not a guarantee of collection) and waives any right to require that any resort be had by any Holder to any security held for payment of the Obligations under the Notes.
(d)
The obligations of each Note Guarantor hereunder shall not be subject to any reduction, limitation, impairment or termination for any reason (other than payment of the Obligations under the Notes in full), including any claim of waiver, release, surrender, alteration or compromise, and shall not be subject to any defense of setoff, counterclaim, recoupment or termination whatsoever or by reason of the invalidity, illegality or unenforceability of the Obligations under the Notes or the Indenture.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the obligations of each Note Guarantor herein shall not be discharged or impaired or otherwise
affected by the failure of any Holder to assert any claim or demand or to enforce any remedy under this Indenture, the Notes or any other agreement, by any waiver or modification of any thereof, by any default, failure or delay, willful or otherwise, in the performance of the Obligations under the Notes or the Indenture, or by any other act or thing or omission or delay to do any other act or thing which may or might in any manner or to any extent vary the risk of such Note Guarantor or would otherwise operate as a discharge of such Note Guarantor as a matter of law or equity.
(e)
Each Note Guarantor further agrees that its Note Guarantee herein shall continue to be effective or be reinstated, as the case may be, if at any time payment, or any part thereof, of principal of or interest on any of the Obligations under the Notes or the Indenture is rescinded or must otherwise be restored by any Holder upon the bankruptcy or reorganization of the Company or otherwise.
(f)
In furtherance of the foregoing and not in limitation of any other right which the Trustee or any Holder has at law or in equity against each Note Guarantor by virtue hereof, upon the failure of the Company to pay any of the Obligations under the Notes or the Indenture when and as the same shall become due, whether at maturity, by acceleration, by redemption or otherwise, each Note Guarantor hereby promises to and will, upon receipt of written demand by the Trustee, forthwith pay, or cause to be paid, in cash, to the Holders an amount equal to the sum of:
(i)
the unpaid amount of such Obligations under the Notes and the Indenture then due and owing; and
(ii)
accrued and unpaid interest on such Obligations under the Notes and the Indenture then due and owing (but only to the extent not prohibited by law);
, that any delay by the Trustee in giving such written demand shall in no event affect any Note Guarantor's Obligations under its Note Guarantee.
provided
(g)
Each Note Guarantor further agrees that, as between such Note Guarantor, on the one hand, and the Holders, on the other hand:
(i)
the maturity of the Obligations under the Notes and the Indenture guaranteed hereby may be accelerated as provided in this Indenture for the purposes of its Note Guarantee herein, notwithstanding any stay, injunction or other prohibition preventing such acceleration in respect of such Obligations; and
(ii)
in the event of any such declaration of acceleration of Obligations under the Notes and the Indenture, such Obligations (whether or not due and payable) shall forthwith become due and payable by such Note Guarantor for the purposes of its Note Guarantee.
Section 10.2.
.
Limitation on Liability; Termination, Release and Discharge
 
(a)
The obligations of each Note Guarantor hereunder shall be limited to the maximum amount as shall, after giving effect to all other contingent and fixed liabilities of such
Note Guarantor and after giving effect to any collections from or payments made by or on behalf of any other Note Guarantor in respect of the obligations of such other Note Guarantor under its Note Guarantee or pursuant to its contribution obligations under this Indenture, result in the obligations of such Note Guarantor under its Note Guarantee not constituting a fraudulent conveyance or fraudulent transfer under federal or state law.
(b)
If no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, a Note Guarantor will be released and relieved of its obligations under its Note Guarantee:
(i)
automatically upon any sale, exchange or transfer, whether by way of merger or otherwise, to any Person that is not an Affiliate of the Company, of all of the Company's direct or indirect equity interests in the Note Guarantor;
(ii)
automatically upon the liquidation and dissolution of the Note Guarantor;
(iii)
following delivery of a written notice by the Company to the Trustee, upon the release of all guarantees or other obligations of the Note Guarantor with respect to the obligations of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries under the Revolving Credit Facility; that if at any time following any release of a Note Guarantor from its guarantee of the Notes pursuant to this subsection (iii), the Note Guarantor again guarantees, becomes a co-obligor with respect to or otherwise provides direct credit support for any of the obligations of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries under the Revolving Credit Facility, then the Company shall cause the Note Guarantor to again guarantee the Notes in accordance with this Indenture.
provided
(c)
If there is a Legal Defeasance or a Covenant Defeasance, or if the Company satisfies its Obligations under the Notes pursuant to Section 8.7, then all of the Note Guarantors will be released and relieved of their obligations under their respective Note Guarantees.
Section 10.3.
.
Right of Contribution
Each Note Guarantor that makes a payment or distribution under a Note Guarantee will be entitled, upon payment in full of all Guaranteed Obligations under the Notes, to a contribution from each other Note Guarantor in an amount equal to such other Note Guarantor's portion of such payment, based on the respective net assets of all the Note Guarantors at the time of such payment determined in accordance with GAAP.  The provisions of this Section 10.3 shall in no respect limit the obligations and liabilities of each Note Guarantor to the Trustee and the Holders and each Note Guarantor shall remain liable to the Trustee and the Holders for the full amount guaranteed by such Note Guarantor hereunder.
pro rata
Section 10.4.
.
No Subrogation
Each Note Guarantor agrees that it shall not be entitled to any right of subrogation in respect of any Guaranteed Obligations until payment in full in cash or Cash Equivalents of all Obligations.  If any amount shall be paid to either Note Guarantor on account of such subrogation rights at any time when all of the Obligations shall not have been paid in full in cash or Cash Equivalents, such amount shall be held by such Note Guarantor in trust for the Trustee and the Holders, segregated from other funds of such Note Guarantor, and shall, forthwith upon receipt by such Note Guarantor, be turned over to the
Trustee in the exact form received by such Note Guarantor (duly endorsed by such Note Guarantor to the Trustee, if required), to be applied against the Obligations.
ARTICLE XI MISCELLANEOUS
Section 11.1.
.
Trust Indenture Act Controls
If any provision of this Indenture limits, qualifies or conflicts with another provision which is required to be included in this Indenture by the TIA, the provision required by the TIA shall control.
Section 11.2.
.
Notices
 
(a)
Any notice or communication shall be in writing and delivered in person or mailed by first-class mail, postage prepaid, addressed as follows:
if to the Company:  Southwest Energy Company, 2350 North Sam Houston Parkway East, Suite 125, Houston, Texas 77032;
if to the Trustee:  The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., 2 North LaSalle Street, Suite 1020, Chicago, Illinois 60602, Attention: Corporate Trust.
The Company or the Trustee by notice to the other may designate additional or different addresses for subsequent notices or communications.
(b)
Any notice or communication mailed to a registered Holder shall be mailed to the Holder at the Holder's address as it appears on the registration books of the Registrar and shall be sufficiently given if so mailed within the time prescribed.  Failure to mail a notice or communication to a Holder or any defect in it shall not affect its sufficiency with respect to other Holders.
(c)
If a notice or communication is mailed in the manner provided above, it is duly given, whether or not the addressee receives it, except in the case of notices or communications given to the Trustee, which shall be effective only upon actual receipt by the Trustee at the Corporate Trust Office.
(d)
Any notice or communication delivered to the Company under the provisions herein shall constitute notice to the Note Guarantors.
(e)
The Trustee shall have the right, but shall not be required, to rely upon and comply with instructions and directions sent by e-mail, facsimile and other similar unsecured electronic methods by Persons believed by the Trustee to be authorized to give instructions and directions on behalf of the Company.  The Trustee shall have no duty or obligation to verify or confirm that the Person who sent such instructions or directions is, in fact, a Person authorized to give instructions or directions on behalf of the Company; and the Trustee shall have no liability for any losses, liabilities, costs or expenses incurred or sustained by the Company as a result of such reliance upon or compliance with such instructions or directions.  The Company agrees to assume all risks arising out of the use of such electronic methods to submit instructions and
directions to the Trustee, including without limitation the risk of the Trustee acting on unauthorized instructions, and the risk of interception and misuse by third parties.
Section 11.3.
.
Communication by Holders with Other Holders
Holders may communicate pursuant to TIA  312(b) with other Holders with respect to their rights under this Indenture (including the Note Guarantees) or the Notes.  The Company, the Note Guarantors, the Trustee, the Registrar and anyone else shall have the protection of TIA  312(c).
Section 11.4.
.
Certificate and Opinion as to Conditions Precedent
Upon any request or application by the Company to the Trustee to take or refrain from taking any action under this Indenture, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee:
(a)
an Officers' Certificate in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee stating that, in the opinion of the signers, all conditions precedent, if any, provided for in this Indenture relating to the proposed action have been complied with; and
(b)
an Opinion of Counsel in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee stating that, in the opinion of such counsel, all such conditions precedent have been complied with.
Section 11.5.
.
Statements Required in Certificate or Opinion
Each certificate or opinion, including each Officers' Certificate or Opinion of Counsel with respect to compliance with a covenant or condition provided for in this Indenture shall include:
(a)
a statement that the individual making such certificate or opinion has read such covenant or condition and the definitions herein relating thereto;
(b)
a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such certificate or opinion are based;
(c)
a statement that, in the opinion of such individual, he has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable him to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and
(d)
a statement as to whether or not, in the opinion of such individual, such covenant or condition has been complied with.
In giving an Opinion of Counsel, counsel may rely as to factual matters on an Officers' Certificate or on certificates of public officials.
Section 11.6.
.
Rules by Trustee, Paying Agent and Registrar
The Trustee may make reasonable rules for action by, or a meeting of, Holders.  The Registrar and the Paying Agent may make reasonable rules for their functions.
Section 11.7.
.
Legal Holidays
A "Legal Holiday" is a Saturday, a Sunday or other day on which commercial banking institutions are authorized or required by law, regulation
or executive order to be closed in New York City.  If a scheduled payment date is a Legal Holiday, payment shall be made on the next succeeding day that is not a Legal Holiday, and no interest shall accrue for the intervening period.  If a regular record date is a Legal Holiday, the record date shall not be affected.
Section 11.8.
.
Governing Law, etc.
 
(a)
THIS INDENTURE (INCLUDING EACH NOTE GUARANTEE) AND THE NOTES SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.  THE PARTIES HERETO AND THE HOLDERS OF THE NOTES BY THEIR ACCEPTANCE THEREOF EACH HEREBY WAIVE ANY RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY ACTION, PROCEEDING OR COUNTERCLAIM ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS INDENTURE, EACH NOTE GUARANTEE OR THE NOTES OR ANY TRANSACTION RELATED HERETO OR THERETO TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW.
(b)
The Company and each Note Guarantor hereby:
(i)
agrees that any suit, action or proceeding against it arising out of or relating to this Indenture (including the Note Guarantees) or the Notes, as the case may be, may be instituted in any Federal or state court sitting in The City of New York,
(ii)
waives to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any objection which it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any such suit, action or proceeding, and any claim that any suit, action or proceeding in such a court has been brought in an inconvenient forum,
(iii)
irrevocably submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of such courts in any suit, action or proceeding,
(iv)
agrees that final judgment in any such suit, action or proceeding brought in such a court shall be conclusive and binding may be enforced in the courts of the jurisdiction of which it is subject by a suit upon judgment, and
(v)
agrees that service of process by mail to the addresses specified herein shall constitute personal service of such process on it in any such suit, action or proceeding.
(c)
Nothing in this Section 11.8 shall affect the right of the Trustee or any Holder of the Notes to serve process in any other manner permitted by law.
Section 11.9.
.
No Recourse Against Others
An incorporator, director, officer, employee, stockholder or controlling Person, as such, of the Company or either Note Guarantor shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Notes, this Indenture or the Note Guarantees or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such obligations or their creation.  By accepting a Note, each Holder shall waive and release all such liability.  The waiver and release shall be part of the consideration for the issue of the Notes.
Section 11.10.
.
Successors
All agreements of the Company and the Note Guarantors in this Indenture and the Notes shall bind their respective successors.  All agreements of the Trustee in this Indenture shall bind its successors.
Section 11.11.
.
Duplicate and Counterpart Originals
The parties may sign any number of copies of this Indenture.  One signed copy is enough to prove this Indenture.  This Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement.
Section 11.12.
.
Severability
In case any provision in this Indenture or in the Notes shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Section 11.13.
.
Qualification of Indenture
The Company shall qualify this Indenture under the TIA in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Registration Rights Agreement and shall pay all reasonable costs and expenses (including attorneys' fees and expenses for the Company, the Note Guarantors, the Trustee and the Holders) incurred in connection therewith, including, but not limited to, costs and expenses of qualification of this Indenture and the Notes and printing this Indenture and the Notes.  The Trustee shall be entitled to receive from the Company any such Officers' Certificates, Opinions of Counsel or other documentation as it may reasonably request in connection with any such qualification of this Indenture under the TIA.
Section 11.14.
.
Table of Contents; Headings
The table of contents and headings of the Articles and Sections of this Indenture have been inserted for convenience of reference only, are not intended to be considered a part hereof and shall not modify or restrict any of the terms or provisions hereof.
Section 11.15.
.
PATRIOT ACT
The parties hereto acknowledge that, in accordance with Section 326 of the USA Patriot Act, the Trustee (like all financial institutions) is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies each Person or legal entity that opens an account.  The parties hereto agree that they will provide the Trustee with such information as it may reasonably request in order for the Trustee to satisfy the requirements of the USA Patriot Act.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Indenture to be duly executed as of the date first written above.
 
 
THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON TRUST COMPANY, N.A.,    as Trustee
By:
/s/ R. Tamas
Name: R. Tamas Title: Vice President
EXHIBIT A
FORM OF NOTE
[Include the following legend for Global Notes only:
"THIS IS A GLOBAL NOTE WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE REFERRED TO HEREINAFTER.
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), NEW YORK, NEW YORK, TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
TRANSFERS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS IN WHOLE, BUT NOT IN PART, TO NOMINEES OF DTC OR TO A SUCCESSOR THEREOF OR SUCH SUCCESSOR'S NOMINEE AND TRANSFERS OF PORTIONS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS MADE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE RESTRICTIONS SET FORTH IN THE INDENTURE REFERRED TO ON THE REVERSE HEREOF."]
[Include the following Private Placement Legend on all Notes that are Rule 144A Restricted Notes:]
THIS NOTE (OR ITS PREDECESSOR) WAS ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN A TRANSACTION EXEMPT FROM REGISTRATION UNDER THE U.S. SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED ("SECURITIES ACT"), AND THIS NOTE MAY NOT BE OFFERED, SOLD OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR AN APPLICABLE EXEMPTION THEREFROM.  EACH PURCHASER OF THE NOTE IS HEREBY NOTIFIED THAT THE SELLER OF THIS NOTE MAY BE RELYING ON THE EXEMPTION FROM THE PROVISIONS OF SECTION 5 OF THE SECURITIES ACT PROVIDED BY RULE 144A THEREUNDER.
THE HOLDER OF THIS NOTE AGREES FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE COMPANY THAT (A) THIS NOTE MAY BE OFFERED, RESOLD, PLEDGED OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED, ONLY (I) IN THE UNITED STATES TO A PERSON WHOM THE SELLER REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER (AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT) IN A TRANSACTION MEETING THE REQUIRMENTS OF RULE 144A, (II) OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 904 UNDER THE
SECURITIES ACT, (III) PURSUANT TO AN EXEMPTION FROM REGISTRATION UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT PROVIDED BY RULE 144 THEREUNDER OR ANY SUCCESSOR PROVISION THERETO (IF AVAILABLE) OR (IV) PURSUANT TO AN EFFECTIVE REGISTRATION STATEMENT UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, IN EACH OF CASES (I) THROUGH (IV) IN ACCORDANCE WITH ANY APPLICABLE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY STATE OF THE UNITED STATES, AND (B) THE HOLDER WILL, AND EACH SUBSEQUENT HOLDER IS REQUIRED TO, NOTIFY ANY PURCHASER OF THIS NOTE FROM IT OF THE RESALE RESTRICTIONS REFERRED TO IN (A) ABOVE.
[Include the following Private Placement Legend on all Regulation S Restricted Notes:]
THIS NOTE (OR ITS PREDECESSOR) WAS ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN A TRANSACTION ORIGINALLY EXEMPT FROM REGISTRATION UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED ("SECURITIES ACT"), AND MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED IN THE UNITED STATES OR TO, OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OR BENEFIT OF, ANY U.S. PERSON EXCEPT PURSUANT TO AN AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT AND ALL APPLICABLE STATE SECURITIES LAWS.  TERMS USED ABOVE HAVE THE MEANINGS GIVEN TO THEM IN REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT.
FORM OF FACE OF NOTE
Southwestern Energy Company 4.10% Senior Notes due 2022
No. [___]
Principal Amount $[______________]
as revised by the Schedule of Increases and Decreases in Global Note attached hereto
CUSIP NO. ____________
Southwestern Energy Company, a Delaware corporation, promises to pay to [___________], or registered assigns, the principal sum of [__________________] Dollars as revised by the Schedule of Increases and Decreases in Global Note attached hereto, on March 15, 2022.
Interest Payment Dates:
March 15 and September 15, beginning September 15, 2012
Record Dates:
Close of business on the immediately preceding March 1 or September 1, as applicable.
Additional provisions of this Note are set forth on the other side of this Note.
TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF   AUTHENTICATION
The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A.,
as Trustee, certifies
that this is one of
the Notes referred
to in the Indenture.
By: __________________________
Authorized Signatory
Dated: __________________________
FORM OF REVERSE SIDE OF NOTE
Southwestern Energy Company 4.10% Senior Notes due 2022
1.
Interest
Southwestern Energy Company, a Delaware corporation (such corporation, and its successors and assigns under the Indenture hereinafter referred to, the ""), promises to pay interest on the principal amount of this Note at the rate of 4.10% per annum.
Company
The Company will pay interest semiannually in arrears on each Interest Payment Date, commencing September 15, 2012.  Interest on the Notes will accrue from the most recent date to which interest has been paid on the Notes or, if no interest has been paid, from March 5, 2012.  Interest will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
The Company shall pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue principal (plus interest on such interest to the extent lawful), at the rate borne by the Notes to the extent lawful and, to the extent such payments are lawful, the Company shall pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue installments of interest ("") without regard to any applicable grace periods at the same rate as the rate shown on this Note, in each case as provided in the Indenture.
Defaulted Interest
The Company may be required to pay Additional Interest in certain circumstances.
2.
Method of Payment
Prior to 10:00 a.m. New York City time on the date on which any principal of or interest on any Note is due and payable, the Company shall deposit with the Trustee or the Paying Agent money sufficient to pay such principal and/or interest.  The Company will pay interest (except Defaulted Interest) to the Persons who are registered Holders of Notes at the close of business on the Record Date preceding the Interest Payment Date even if Notes are canceled, repurchased or redeemed after the Record Date and on or before the relevant Interest Payment Date, except as provided in of the Indenture with respect to Defaulted Interest.  Holders must surrender Notes to a Paying Agent to collect principal payments.  The Company will pay principal and interest in U.S. Legal Tender.
Section 2.12
Payments in respect of Notes represented by a Global Note (including principal and interest) will be made by the transfer of immediately available funds to the accounts specified by DTC.  The Company will make all payments in respect of a Certificated Note (including principal and interest) by mailing a check to the registered address of each Holder thereof as set forth in the Note Register; , that payments on the Notes may also be made, in the case of a Holder of at least $5,000,000 aggregate principal amount of Notes, by wire transfer to a U.S. dollar account maintained by the payee with a bank in the United States if such Holder elects payment by wire transfer by giving written notice to the Trustee or the Paying
provided
,
however
Agent to such effect designating such account no later than 15 days immediately preceding the relevant due date for payment (or such other date as the Trustee may accept in its discretion).
3.
Paying Agent and Registrar
Initially, The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (the ""), will act as Trustee, Paying Agent and Registrar.  The Company may appoint and change any Paying Agent, Registrar or co-Registrar without notice to any Holder.  The Company or any Note Guarantor may act as Paying Agent, Registrar or co-Registrar without notice to any Holder.
Trustee
4.
Indenture
The Company issued the Notes under an Indenture, dated as of March 5, 2012 (as it may be amended or supplemented from time to time in accordance with the terms thereof, the ""), among the Company, the Note Guarantors and the Trustee.  The terms of the Notes include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the TIA.  The Notes are subject to all such terms, and Holders are referred to the Indenture and the TIA for a statement of those terms.  Each Holder by accepting a Note, agrees to be bound by all of the terms and provisions of the Indenture, as amended or supplemented from time to time.  Capitalized terms used herein and not defined herein have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Indenture.  
Indenture
The Notes are general unsecured obligations of the Company.  Subject to the conditions set forth in the Indenture, the Company may issue Additional Notes and/or Exchange Notes.  All Notes shall be treated as one class of securities under the Indenture.
The Indenture imposes certain limitations on, among other things, the ability of the Company and its Subsidiaries to:  incur Liens; enter into Sale and Leaseback Transactions; or consolidate or merge or transfer or convey all or substantially all of the Company's assets.
To guarantee the due and punctual payment of the principal of and interest on the Notes and all other amounts payable by the Company under the Indenture and the Notes when and as the same shall be due and payable, whether at maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, according to the terms of the Notes and the Indenture, SEECO, Inc., Southwestern Energy Production Company and Southwestern Energy Services Company have unconditionally guaranteed, jointly and severally, such obligations pursuant to the terms of the Indenture.  Each Note Guarantee will be subject to release as provided in the Indenture.  The obligations of each Note Guarantor in respect of its Note Guarantee will be limited to the maximum amount as will, after giving effect to all other contingent and fixed liabilities of such Note Guarantor and after giving effect to any collections from or payments made by or on behalf of the other Note Guarantors in respect of the obligations of each of the other Note Guarantors under their respective Note Guarantees or pursuant to their respective contribution obligations under this Indenture, result in the obligations of such Note Guarantor under its Note Guarantee not constituting a fraudulent conveyance or fraudulent transfer under federal or state law.
5.
Optional Redemptions
(a)
Prior to December 15, 2021, the Notes are redeemable at the Company's election, in accordance with the procedures set forth in of the Indenture, in whole or in part, at any time at a redemption price equal to the greater of:
Article V
(1)
100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed; and
(2)
as determined by an Independent Investment Banker, the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the Notes to be redeemed (not including any portion of such payments of interest accrued to the date of redemption) discounted to the Redemption Date on a semiannual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Adjusted Treasury Rate, plus 35 basis points
, in either of the above cases, accrued and unpaid interest on the Notes to be redeemed to the Redemption Date.
plus
(b)
On or after December 15, 2021, the Company may redeem the Notes at its election, in whole or in part, at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption.
In the case of any partial redemption, selection of the Notes for redemption will be made in accordance with Article V of the Indenture.  On and after the Redemption Date, interest will cease to accrue on Notes or portions thereof called for redemption as long as the Company has deposited with the Paying Agent funds in satisfaction of the applicable redemption price pursuant to the Indenture.  No Note of $2,000 or less in principal amount will be redeemed in part.
6.
Repurchase Provisions
.  Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Event, each Holder shall have the right to require the Company to repurchase all or any part (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 thereafter) of such Holder's Notes at a purchase price, in cash, equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of such Holder's Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, and Additional Interest, if any, up to but excluding the date of purchase pursuant to the terms and conditions specified in the Indenture.  Within 30 days following any Change of Control Event, if the Company has not (prior to the Change of Control Event) sent a redemption notice for all the Notes in connection with an option redemption permitted by Article V of the Indenture or as otherwise provided under the Indenture, the Company shall make a Change of Control Offer pursuant to a Change of Control Notice.  As more fully described in the Indenture, the Change of Control Notice shall state, among other things, the Change of Control Payment Date, which must be no earlier than 30 days nor later than 60 days from the date the Change of Control Notice is mailed, other than as may be required by applicable law.
Change Of Control Offer
7.
Denominations; Transfer; Exchange
The Notes are in fully registered form without coupons, and only in denominations of principal amount of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 thereafter.  A Holder may transfer or exchange Notes in accordance with the Indenture.  The Registrar may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements or transfer documents and to pay any taxes and fees required by law or permitted by the Indenture.  The Registrar need not register the transfer of or exchange (i) any Notes selected for repurchase or redemption (except, in the case of a Note to be redeemed in part, the portion of the Note not to be repurchased or redeemed) for a period beginning 15 days before the mailing of a notice of Notes to be repurchased or redeemed and ending on the date of such mailing or (ii) any Notes for a period beginning 15 days before an Interest Payment Date and ending on such Interest Payment Date.
8.
Persons Deemed Owners
The registered Holder of this Note may be treated as the owner of it for all purposes.
9.
Unclaimed Money
If money for the payment of principal or interest remains unclaimed for two years, the Trustee or Paying Agent shall pay the money back to the Company at its request unless an abandoned property law designates another Person.  After any such payment, Holders entitled to the money will be deemed general creditors of the Company with respect to the money and must look only to the Company and not to the Trustee for payment.
10.
Discharge Prior to Redemption or Maturity
Subject to certain conditions set forth in the Indenture, the Company at any time may terminate some or all of its obligations under the Notes and the Indenture if the Company deposits with the Trustee U.S. Legal Tender or U.S. Government Obligations for the payment of principal of and interest on the Notes to redemption or maturity, as the case may be.
11.
Amendment, Waiver
Subject to certain exceptions set forth in the Indenture, (i) the Indenture or the Notes may be amended or supplemented with the written consent of the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the then Outstanding Notes and (ii) any default (other than with respect to nonpayment or in respect of a provision that cannot be amended or supplemented without the written consent of each Holder affected) or noncompliance with any provision may be waived with the written consent of the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then Outstanding Notes.  Subject to certain exceptions set forth in the Indenture, without the consent of any Holder, the Company and the Trustee may amend or supplement the Indenture or the Notes to, among other things, cure any ambiguity, omission, defect or inconsistency, or to comply with Article IV of the Indenture, or to provide for uncertificated Notes in addition to or in place of certificated Notes, or to add guarantees with respect to the Notes or to secure the Notes, or to add additional covenants or surrender rights and powers conferred on the Company,
or to comply with any request of the SEC in connection with qualifying the Indenture under the TIA, to make any change that does not adversely affect the rights of any Holder, to add additional Events of Default, to provide for the acceptance of appointment by a successor Trustee and to modify provisions in the Indenture therefor, or to correct or supplement any provision of the Indenture that may be inconsistent with any other provision of the Indenture so long as such action shall not adversely affect the interests of any Holder.
12.
Defaults and Remedies
If an Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Notes may declare all the Notes to be due and payable immediately.  Certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency are Events of Default which will result in the Notes being due and payable immediately upon the occurrence of such Events of Default.
Holders may not enforce the Indenture or the Notes except as provided in the Indenture.  The Trustee may refuse to enforce the Indenture or the Notes unless it receives indemnity or security satisfactory to it.  Subject to certain limitations, Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Notes may direct the Trustee in its exercise of any trust or power.  The Trustee may withhold from Holders notice of any continuing Default or Event of Default (except a Default or Event of Default in payment of principal or interest, if any, on the Notes) if it determines that withholding notice is in their interest.
13.
Trustee Dealings with the Company and the Note Guarantors
Subject to certain limitations set forth in the Indenture, the Trustee under the Indenture, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Notes and may otherwise deal with and collect obligations owed to it by the Company, the Note Guarantors or their Affiliates and may otherwise deal with the Company, the Note Guarantors or their Affiliates with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee.
14.
No Recourse Against Others
An incorporator, director, officer, employee, stockholder or controlling Person, as such, of the Company or any Note Guarantor shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Notes, the Indenture or any Note Guarantee or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such obligations or their creation.  By accepting a Note, each Holder waives and releases all such liability.  The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issue of the Notes.
15.
Authentication
This Note shall not be valid until an authorized signatory of the Trustee (or an Authenticating Agent) manually signs the certificate of authentication on the other side of this Note.
16.
Abbreviations
Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder or an assignee, such as TEN COM (=tenants in common), TEN ENT (=tenants by the entirety), JT TEN (=joint tenants with rights of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (=custodian) and U/G/M/A (=Uniform Gift to Minors Act).
17.
CUSIP, ISIN or Other Similar Numbers
Pursuant to a recommendation promulgated by the Committee on Uniform Security Identification Procedures the Company has caused CUSIP, ISIN or other similar numbers to be printed on the Notes and has directed the Trustee to use such numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders.  No representation is made as to the accuracy of such numbers either as printed on the Notes or as contained in any notice of redemption and reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers placed thereon.
18.
Governing Law
This Note shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
The Company shall furnish to any Holder upon written request and without charge to the Holder a copy of the Indenture that has in it the text of this Note in larger type.  Requests may be made to:  Southwestern Energy Company, 2350 North Sam Houston Parkway East, Suite 125, Houston, Texas 77032.
Southwestern Energy Company 4.10% Senior Notes due 2022
Each Note Guarantor (as defined in the Indenture governing the Notes described above and which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture), upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Indenture, has unconditionally guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis (each such guarantee, a "") (i) the due and punctual payment of the principal of and interest on the Notes, whether at maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, the due and punctual payment of interest on the overdue principal and interest, if any, on the Notes, to the extent lawful, and the due and punctual performance of all other obligations of the Company to the Holders or the Trustee all in accordance with the terms set forth in Article X of the Indenture and (ii) in case of any extension of time of payment or renewal of any Notes or any of such other obligations, each Note Guarantor has guaranteed that the same will be promptly paid in full when due or performed in accordance with the terms of the extension or renewal, whether at the Maturity Date, by acceleration or otherwise.  
Note Guarantee
Each Note Guarantor hereby agrees that its obligations hereunder shall be unconditional, irrespective of the validity, regularity or enforceability of the Notes or the Indenture, the absence of any action to enforce the same, any waiver or consent by any Holder with respect to any provisions thereof, the recovery of any judgment against the Company, any action to enforce the same or any other circumstance that might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense any Note Guarantor.
The obligations of the undersigned to the Holders and to the Trustee pursuant to the Note Guarantee of each Note Guarantor and in the Indenture are expressly set forth in the Indenture and reference is hereby made to the Indenture for the precise terms of this Note Guarantee and all of the other provisions of the Indenture to which this Note Guarantee relates.
No stockholder, officer, director, employee or incorporator, as such, past, present or future, of any Note Guarantor shall have any liability under the Note Guarantee of such Note Guarantor by reason of his or its status as such stockholder, officer, director, employee or incorporator.
This Note Guarantee shall not be valid or obligatory for any purpose until the certificate of authentication on the Notes upon which such Note Guarantee is noted shall have been executed by the Trustee under the Indenture by the manual signature of one of its authorized signatories.
This Guarantee shall be automatically and unconditionally released on the terms set forth in Section 10.2 of the Indenture.  
All capitalized terms used but not defined in this Guarantee shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
THIS NOTE GUARANTEE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Guarantor has caused this instrument to be duly executed.
ASSIGNMENT FORM
To assign this Note, fill in the form below:
I or we assign and transfer this Note to
(Print or type assignee's name, address and zip code)
(Insert assignee's Social Security or Tax I.D. Number)
and irrevocably appoint agent to transfer this Note on the books of the Company.  The agent may substitute another to act for him.
Date:____________________
Your Signature:___________________
Signature Guarantee:______________________________
(Signature must be guaranteed)
Sign exactly as your name appears on the other side of this Note.
The signature(s) should be guaranteed by an eligible guarantor institution (banks, stockbrokers, savings and loan associations and credit unions with membership in an approved signature guarantee medallion program), pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 17Ad-15.
The following increases or decreases in this Global Note have been made:
OPTION OF HOLDER TO ELECT PURCHASE
If you want to elect to have this Note purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 3.9 of the Indenture, check the box below:
Section 3.9
If you want to elect to have only part of this Note purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 3.9 of the Indenture, state the principal amount (which must be $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 thereafter) that you want to have purchased by the Company:  $
Date:  __________
Your Signature ____________________________
(Sign exactly as your name appears on the
other side of the Note)
Signature Guarantee:
_______________________________________
(Signature must be guaranteed)
The signature(s) should be guaranteed by an eligible guarantor institution (banks, stockbrokers, savings and loan associations and credit unions with membership in an approved signature guarantee medallion program), pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 17Ad-15.
EXHIBIT B
FORM OF CERTIFICATE FOR TRANSFER TO QIB
[Date]
The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A.
2 North LaSalle Street, Suite 1020
Chicago, Illinois 60602
Re:
4.10% Senior Notes Due 2022 (the "Notes")
of Southwestern Energy Company (the "Company")
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Reference is hereby made to the Indenture, dated as of March 5, 2012 (as amended and supplemented from time to time, the "Indenture"), among the Company, the Note Guarantors and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee.  Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given them in the Indenture.
This letter relates to $___________ aggregate principal amount of Notes which represents an interest in a Regulation S Global Note beneficially owned by the undersigned (the "Transferor") to effect the transfer of such Notes in exchange for an equivalent beneficial interest in the Rule 144A Global Note.
In connection with such request, and with respect to such Notes, the Transferor does hereby certify that such Notes are being transferred in accordance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended ("Rule 144A"), to a transferee that the Transferor reasonably believes is purchasing the Notes for its own account or an account with respect to which the transferee exercises sole investment discretion, and the transferee, as well as any such account, is a "qualified institutional buyer" within the meaning of Rule 144A, in a transaction meeting the requirements of Rule 144A and in accordance with applicable securities laws of any state of the United States or any other jurisdiction.
You and the Company are entitled to rely upon this letter and are irrevocably authorized to produce this letter or a copy hereof to any interested party in any administrative or legal proceedings or official inquiry with respect to the matters covered hereby.
Very truly yours,
[Name of Transferor]
By:____________________________
_______________________________
Authorized Signature
EXHIBIT C
FORM OF CERTIFICATE FOR TRANSFER PURSUANT TO REGULATION S
[Date]
The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A.
2 North LaSalle Street, Suite 1020
Chicago, Illinois 60602
Re:
4.10% Senior Notes Due 2022 (the "Notes")
of Southwestern Energy Company (the "Company")
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Reference is hereby made to the Indenture, dated as of March 5, 2012 (as amended and supplemented from time to time, the "Indenture"), between the Company, the Note Guarantors party thereto and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee.  Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given them in the Indenture.
In connection with our proposed sale of $________ aggregate principal amount of the Notes which represent an interest in a 144A Global Note beneficially owned by the undersigned ("Transferor"), we confirm that such sale has been effected pursuant to and in accordance with Regulation S under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and, accordingly, we represent that:
(a)  the offer of the Notes was not made to a person in the United States;
(b)  either (i) at the time the buy order was originated, the transferee was outside the United States or we and any person acting on our behalf reasonably believed that the transferee was outside the United States or (ii) the transaction was executed in, on or through the facilities of a designated off-shore securities market and neither we nor any person acting on our behalf knows that the transaction has been pre-arranged with a buyer in the United States;
(c)  no directed selling efforts have been made in the United States in contravention of the requirements of Rule 903(b) or Rule 904(b) of Regulation S, as applicable;
(d)  the transaction is not part of a plan or scheme to evade the registration requirements of the Securities Act; and
(e)  we are the beneficial owner of the principal amount of Notes being transferred.
In addition, if the sale is made during a Distribution Compliance Period and the provisions of Rule 904(b)(1) or Rule 904(b)(2) of Regulation S are applicable thereto, we confirm that such sale has been made in accordance with the applicable provisions of Rule 904(b)(1) or Rule 904(b)(2), as the case may be.
You and the Company are entitled to rely upon this letter and are irrevocably authorized to produce this letter or a copy hereof to any interested party in any administrative or legal proceedings or official inquiry with respect to the matters covered hereby.  Terms used in this letter have the meanings set forth in Regulation S.
Very truly yours,
[Name of Transferor]
By:____________________________
_______________________________
Authorized Signature
EXHIBIT D
FORM OF CERTIFICATE FOR TRANSFER PURSUANT TO RULE 144
[Date]
The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A.
2 North LaSalle Street, Suite 1020
Chicago, Illinois 60602
Re:
4.10% Senior Notes Due 2022 (the "Notes")
of Southwestern Energy Company (the "Company")
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Reference is hereby made to the Indenture, dated as of March 5, 2012 (as amended and supplemented from time to time, the "Indenture"), between the Company, the Note Guarantors party thereto and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee.  Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given them in the Indenture.
In connection with our proposed sale of $________ aggregate principal amount of the Notes, which represent an interest in a 144A Global Note beneficially owned by the undersigned ("Transferor"), we confirm that such sale has been effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act.
You and the Company are entitled to rely upon this letter and are irrevocably authorized to produce this letter or a copy hereof to any interested party in any administrative or legal proceedings or official inquiry with respect to the matters covered hereby.
Very truly yours,
[Name of Transferor]
By:____________________________
_______________________________
Authorized Signature

EXECUTION VERSION
REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT
This REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT dated March 5, 2012 (the "") is entered into by and among Southwestern Energy Company, a Delaware corporation (the "") and J.P. Morgan Securities LLC (""), acting as representative of the initial purchasers listed on Schedule I to the Purchase Agreement, as defined below (each, an "" and, collectively, the "").
Agreement
Company
JPMorgan
Initial Purchaser
Initial Purchasers
The Company, SEECO, Inc., an Arkansas corporation, Southwestern Energy Production Company, an Arkansas corporation and Southwestern Energy Services Company, an Arkansas corporation (the "Guarantors"), and the Initial Purchasers are parties to the Purchase Agreement dated February 29, 2012 (the ""), which provides for the sale by the Company to the Initial Purchasers of $1,000,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 4.10% Senior Notes due 2022 (the "") which will be guaranteed on an unsecured senior basis by each of the Guarantors.  As an inducement to the Initial Purchasers to enter into the Purchase Agreement, the Company has agreed, and has agreed to cause the Guarantors, to provide to the Initial Purchasers and their direct and indirect transferees the registration rights set forth in this Agreement.  The execution and delivery of this Agreement is a condition to the closing under the Purchase Agreement.
Purchase Agreement
Securities
In consideration of the foregoing, the parties hereto agree as follows:
1.
.  As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
Definitions
"" shall mean any day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks in New York City are authorized or required by law to remain closed.
Business Day
"" means the date of this Agreement.
Closing Date
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble and shall also include the Company's successors, including any "" that becomes such in accordance with Article IV of the Indenture.
Company
Successor Company
"" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time.
Exchange Act
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(a)(ii) hereof.
Exchange Dates
"" shall mean the exchange offer by the Company and the Guarantors of Exchange Securities for Registrable Securities pursuant to Section 2(a) hereof.
Exchange Offer
"" shall mean a registration under the Securities Act effected pursuant to Section 2(a) hereof.
Exchange Offer Registration
"" shall mean an exchange offer registration statement on Form S-4 (or, if applicable, on another appropriate form) and all amendments and supplements to such registration statement, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein or deemed a part thereof, all exhibits thereto and any document incorporated by reference therein.
Exchange Offer Registration Statement
"" shall mean senior notes issued by the Company and guaranteed by the Guarantors under the Indenture containing terms identical to the Securities (except that the Exchange Securities will not be subject to restrictions on transfer or to any increase in annual interest rate for failure to comply with this Agreement) and to be offered to Holders of Securities in exchange for Securities pursuant to the Exchange Offer.
Exchange Securities
"" means each free writing prospectus (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act) prepared by or on behalf of the Company or used or referred to by the Company in connection with the sale of the Securities or the Exchange Securities.
Free Writing Prospectus
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble and shall also include any Guarantor's successors.
Guarantors
"" shall mean the Initial Purchasers, for so long as they own any Registrable Securities, and each of their successors, assigns and direct and indirect transferees who become owners of Registrable Securities under the Indenture; that for purposes of Sections 4 and 6 of this Agreement, the term "Holders" shall include Participating Broker-Dealers.
Holders
provided
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5(c) hereof.
Indemnified Person
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5(c) hereof.
Indemnifying Person
"" shall mean the Indenture relating to the Securities dated as of March 5, 2012 among the Company, the Guarantors and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee, and as the same may be amended from time to time in accordance with the terms thereof.
Indenture
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Initial Purchasers
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(a)(xiii) hereof.
Inspector
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5(a) hereof.
Issuer Information
"" shall mean the Holders of a majority of the aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Registrable Securities; that whenever the consent or approval of Holders of a specified percentage of Registrable Securities is required hereunder, any Registrable Securities owned directly or indirectly by the Company or any of its affiliates (within the meaning of Rule 405 under the Securities Act) shall not be counted in determining whether such consent or approval was given by the Holders of such required percentage or
Majority Holders
provided
 
2
amount; and , , that if the Company shall issue any additional Securities under the Indenture prior to consummation of the Exchange Offer or, if applicable, the effectiveness of any Shelf Registration Statement, such additional Securities and the Registrable Securities to which this Agreement relates shall be treated together as one class for purposes of determining whether the consent or approval of Holders of a specified percentage of Registrable Securities has been obtained.
provided
further
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.
Participating Broker-Dealer
"" shall mean any Holder of Registrable Securities that has returned a completed and signed Notice and Questionnaire to the Company in accordance with Section 2(b) hereof.
Participating Holder
"" shall mean an individual, partnership, limited liability company, corporation, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, trust or unincorporated organization, or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof.
Person
"" shall mean the prospectus included in, or, pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities Act, deemed a part of, a Registration Statement, including any preliminary prospectus, and any such prospectus as amended or supplemented by any prospectus supplement, including a prospectus supplement with respect to the terms of the offering of any portion of the Registrable Securities covered by a Shelf Registration Statement, and by all other amendments and supplements to such prospectus, and in each case including any document incorporated by reference therein.
Prospectus
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Purchase Agreement
"" shall mean the Securities; that the Securities shall cease to be Registrable Securities (i) when a Registration Statement with respect to such Securities has become effective under the Securities Act and such Securities have been exchanged or disposed of pursuant to such Registration Statement; that Securities not disposed of pursuant to an effective Shelf Registration Statement shall cease to be Registrable Securities one year from the date such Shelf Registration Statement is declared effective by the SEC, or such longer period as the Company's and the Guarantor's obligation to keep such Shelf Registration Statement effective is extended in accordance with Section 3(d) hereof;  or (ii) the date on which such Securities cease to be outstanding.
Registrable Securities
provided
provided
"" shall mean any and all expenses incident to performance of or compliance by the Company and the Guarantors with this Agreement, including without limitation: (i) all SEC, stock exchange or National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. registration and filing fees, (ii) all fees and expenses incurred in connection with compliance with state securities or blue sky laws (including reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for any Underwriters or Holders in connection with blue sky qualification of any Exchange Securities or Registrable Securities), (iii) all expenses of the Company and the Guarantors and all reasonable expenses of any other Persons in preparing or assisting in preparing, word processing, printing and distributing any Registration Statement, any Prospectus, any Free
Registration Expenses
 
3
Writing Prospectus and any amendments or supplements thereto, any underwriting agreements, securities sales agreements or other similar agreements and any other documents relating to the performance of and compliance with this Agreement, (iv) all rating agency fees, (v) all fees and disbursements relating to the qualification of the Indenture under applicable securities laws and the Trust Indenture Act, (vi) the reasonable fees and disbursements of the Trustee and its counsel, (vii) the fees and disbursements of counsel for the Company and the Guarantors and, in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, the reasonable fees and disbursements of one counsel for the Participating Holders (which counsel shall be selected by the Participating Holders holding a majority of the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Registrable Securities and which counsel may also be counsel for the Initial Purchasers) and (viii) the fees and disbursements of the independent registered public accountants of the Company and the Guarantors, including the expenses of any special audits or "comfort" letters required by or incident to the performance of and compliance with this Agreement, but excluding fees and expenses of counsel to the Underwriters (other than fees and expenses set forth in clause (ii) above) or the Holders and underwriting discounts and commissions, brokerage commissions and transfer taxes, if any, relating to the sale or disposition of Registrable Securities by a Holder.
"" shall mean any registration statement of the Company and the Guarantors that covers any of the Exchange Securities or Registrable Securities pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement and all amendments and supplements to any such registration statement, including post-effective amendments, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein or deemed a part thereof, all exhibits thereto and any document incorporated by reference therein.
Registration Statement
"" shall mean the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Securities
"" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended from time to time.
Securities Act
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(d) hereof.
Shelf Additional Interest Date
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(b) hereof.
Shelf Effectiveness Period
"" shall mean a registration effected pursuant to Section 2(b) hereof.
Shelf Registration
"" shall mean a "shelf" registration statement of the Company and the Guarantors that covers all or a portion of the Registrable Securities (but no other securities unless approved by a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Registrable Securities held by the Participating Holders) on an appropriate form under Rule 415 under the Securities Act, or any similar rule that may be adopted by the SEC, and all amendments and supplements to such registration statement, including post-effective amendments, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein or deemed a part thereof, all exhibits thereto and any document incorporated by reference therein.
Shelf Registration Statement
 
4
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(b) hereof.
Shelf Request
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(f) hereof.
Suspension Period
"" shall mean the staff of the SEC.
Staff
"" shall mean the guarantees of the Securities and Exchange Securities by the Guarantors under the Indenture.
Subsidiary Guarantees
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(d) hereof.
Target Registration Date
"" shall mean the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended from time to time.
Trust Indenture Act
"" shall mean the trustee with respect to the Securities under the Indenture.
Trustee
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(e) hereof.
Underwriter
"" shall mean an offering in which Registrable Securities are sold to an Underwriter for reoffering to the public.
Underwritten Offering
2.
.  (a)  To the extent not prohibited by any applicable law or applicable interpretations of the Staff, the Company shall use its, and shall cause the Guarantors to use their, reasonable best efforts to (1) cause to be filed an Exchange Offer Registration Statement covering an offer to the Holders to exchange all such Registrable Securities for Exchange Securities on or prior to the 270 calendar day following the Closing Date, and (2) unless there are no Participating Broker Dealers who identified themselves as such to the Company in writing prior to completion of the Exchange Offer, cause such Registration Statement to remain effective until 180 days after the last Exchange Date for use by one or more Participating Broker-Dealers.  The Company and the Guarantors shall commence the Exchange Offer promptly after the Exchange Offer Registration Statement is declared effective by the SEC and the Company shall use its, and cause the Guarantors to use their, reasonable best efforts to complete the Exchange Offer not later than 60 days after such effective date.
Registration Under the Securities Act
th
  
The Company and the Guarantors shall commence the Exchange Offer by mailing the related Prospectus, appropriate letters of transmittal and other accompanying documents to each Holder stating, in addition to such other disclosures as are required by applicable law, substantially the following:
(i)
that the Exchange Offer is being made pursuant to this Agreement and that all Registrable Securities validly tendered and not properly withdrawn will be accepted for exchange;
 
5
(ii)
the dates of acceptance for exchange (which shall be a period of at least 20 Business Days from the date such notice is mailed) (the "");
Exchange Dates
(iii)
that any Registrable Security not tendered will remain outstanding and continue to accrue interest, but will not retain any rights under this Agreement except as otherwise specified herein;
(iv)
that any Holder electing to have a Registrable Security exchanged pursuant to the Exchange Offer will be required to (A) surrender such Registrable Security, together with the appropriate letters of transmittal, to the institution and at the address and in the manner specified in the notice, or (B) effect such exchange otherwise in compliance with the applicable procedures of the depositary for such Registrable Security, in each case prior to the close of business on the last Exchange Date; and
(v)
that any Holder will be entitled to withdraw its election, not later than the close of business on the last Exchange Date, by (A) sending to the institution and at the address specified in the notice, a telegram, telex, facsimile transmission or letter setting forth the name of such Holder, the principal amount of Registrable Securities delivered for exchange and a statement that such Holder is withdrawing its election to have such Securities exchanged or (B) effecting such withdrawal in compliance with the applicable procedures of the depositary for the Registrable Securities.
As a condition to participating in the Exchange Offer, a Holder will be required to represent to the Company and the Guarantors that (i) any Exchange Securities to be received by it will be acquired in the ordinary course of its business, (ii) at the time of consummation of the Exchange Offer, it has no arrangement or understanding with any Person to participate in the distribution (within the meaning of the Securities Act) of the Exchange Securities in violation of the provisions of the Securities Act, (iii) it is not an "affiliate" (within the meaning of Rule 405 under the Securities Act) of the Company or any Guarantor, and (iv) if such Holder is a broker-dealer that will receive Exchange Securities for its own account in exchange for Registrable Securities that were acquired as a result of market-making or other trading activities, then such Holder will deliver a Prospectus (or, to the extent permitted by law, make available a Prospectus to purchasers) in connection with any resale of such Exchange Securities.
As soon as practicable after the last Exchange Date, the Company and the Guarantors shall:
(i)
accept for exchange Registrable Securities or portions thereof validly tendered and not properly withdrawn pursuant to the Exchange Offer; and
(ii)
deliver, or cause to be delivered, to the Trustee for cancellation all Registrable Securities or portions thereof so accepted for exchange by the Company and issue, and cause the Trustee to promptly authenticate and deliver to each
 
6
Holder, Exchange Securities equal in principal amount to the principal amount of the Registrable Securities tendered by such Holder.
The Company and the Guarantors shall use their reasonable best efforts to complete the Exchange Offer as provided above on or prior to the 330 calendar day following the Closing Date and shall comply with the applicable requirements of the Securities Act, the Exchange Act and other applicable laws and regulations in connection with the Exchange Offer.  The Exchange Offer shall not be subject to any conditions, other than that (i) the Exchange Offer does not violate any applicable law or applicable interpretations of the Staff and (ii) no action or proceeding shall have been instituted in any court or by any governmental agency prohibiting the Company and the Guarantors from proceeding with the Exchange Offer.
th
(b)
If (i) the Company and the Guarantors determine the Exchange Offer Registration provided for in Section 2(a) above is not available or may not be completed as soon as practicable after the last Exchange Date because it would violate any applicable law or applicable interpretations of the Staff, (ii) the Exchange Offer is not for any other reason completed within 330 calendar days following the Closing Date or (iii) upon receipt of a written request (a "") from any Initial Purchaser representing that it holds Registrable Securities that are or were ineligible to be exchanged in the Exchange Offer, the Company shall use its, and cause the Guarantors to use their, reasonable best efforts to cause to be filed as soon as practicable after such determination, date or Shelf Request, as the case may be, a Shelf Registration Statement providing for the sale of all the Registrable Securities by the Holders thereof and to have such Shelf Registration Statement become effective; , that no Holder will be entitled to have any Registrable Securities included in any Shelf Registration Statement, or entitled to use the Prospectus forming a part of such Shelf Registration Statement, until such Holder shall have delivered a completed and signed Notice and Questionnaire and provided such other information regarding such Holder to the Company as is contemplated by Section 3(b) hereof.
Shelf Request
provided
In the event that the Company and the Guarantors are required to file a Shelf Registration Statement pursuant to clause (iii) of the preceding sentence, the Company and the Guarantors shall use their reasonable best efforts to file and have become effective both an Exchange Offer Registration Statement pursuant to Section 2(a) hereof with respect to all Registrable Securities and a Shelf Registration Statement (which may be a combined Registration Statement with the Exchange Offer Registration Statement) with respect to offers and sales of Registrable Securities held by the Initial Purchasers after completion of the Exchange Offer.  
The Company agrees to use its, and to cause the Guarantors to use their, reasonable best efforts to keep the Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective for a period of one year following the effective date of such Shelf Registration Statement or such shorter period that will terminate when all the Securities cease to be Registrable Securities or have been sold pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement (the "").  The Company agrees, and will cause the Guarantors, to supplement or amend the Shelf Registration Statement and the related Prospectus if required by the rules, regulations or
Shelf Effectiveness Period
 
7
instructions applicable to the registration form used by the Company for such Shelf Registration Statement or by the Securities Act or by any other rules and regulations thereunder or if reasonably requested by a Participating Holder with respect to information relating to such Holder, and to use their reasonable best efforts to cause any such amendment to become effective, if required, and such Shelf Registration Statement and Prospectus to become usable as soon as thereafter practicable.  The Company agrees to furnish to the Participating Holders copies of any such supplement or amendment promptly after its being used or filed with the SEC.  
(c)
The Company shall pay all Registration Expenses in connection with any registration pursuant to Section 2(a) or Section 2(b) hereof.  Each Holder shall pay all underwriting discounts and commissions, brokerage commissions and transfer taxes, if any, relating to the sale or disposition of such Holder's Registrable Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement.
(d)
An Exchange Offer Registration Statement pursuant to Section 2(a) hereof will not be deemed to have become effective unless it has been declared effective by the SEC.  A Shelf Registration Statement pursuant to Section 2(b) hereof will not be deemed to have become effective unless it has been declared effective by the SEC or is automatically effective upon filing with the SEC as provided by Rule 462 under the Securities Act.
If either the Exchange Offer is not completed or the Shelf Registration Statement, if required pursuant to Section 2(b)(i) or 2(b)(ii) hereof, does not become effective on or prior to the 330 calendar day after the Closing Date (the ""), the interest rate on the Registrable Securities will be increased by (i) 0.25% per annum for the first 90-day period immediately following the Target Registration Date and (ii) an additional 0.25% per annum with respect to each subsequent 90-day period, in each case until (A) the Exchange Offer is completed or (B) the Shelf Registration Statement, if required hereby, becomes effective or (C) the Securities cease to be Registrable Securities.  In the event that the Company receives a Shelf Request pursuant to Section 2(b)(iii), and the Shelf Registration Statement required to be filed thereby does not become effective by the later of (x) the 330 calendar day after the Closing Date or (y) 90 days after the delivery of such Shelf Request (such later date, the ""), then the interest rate on the Registrable Securities will be increased by (i) 0.25% per annum for the first 90-day period payable commencing from one day after the Shelf Additional Interest Date and (ii) an additional 0.25% per annum with respect to each subsequent 90-day period, in each case until (A) the Shelf Registration Statement becomes effective or (B) the Securities cease to be Registrable Securities, up to a maximum aggregate increase of (together with any increase resulting from the provisions of the following paragraph) 1.00% per annum.
th
Target Registration Date
th
Shelf Additional Interest Date
If the Shelf Registration Statement, if required hereby, has become effective and thereafter either ceases to be effective or the Prospectus contained therein ceases to be usable, in each case whether or not permitted by this Agreement, at any time during the Shelf Effectiveness Period, and such failure to remain effective or usable exists for 30 consecutive days or for 60 non-consecutive days in any 365-day period, then the interest rate on the Registrable Securities will be increased by (i) 0.25% per annum for the first 30-day period
 
8
payable commencing on the 61 day in such 12-month period and (ii) an additional 0.25% per annum with respect to each subsequent 90-day period (whether or not consecutive), up to a maximum aggregate increase (together with any increase resulting from the provisions of the preceding paragraph) of 1.00% per annum in each case ending on such date that (A) the Shelf Registration Statement has again become effective or (B) the Prospectus again becomes usable or (C) the Securities registered under such Shelf Registration Statement cease to be Registrable Securities.  Notwithstanding anything else in this Agreement, the Company shall be permitted to suspend use of the Shelf Registration Statement pursuant to Sections 3(d) and 3(f) hereof.
st
(e)
Without limiting the remedies available to the Initial Purchasers and the Holders, the Company acknowledges that any failure by the Company or the Guarantors to comply with their obligations under Section 2(a) and Section 2(b) hereof may result in material irreparable injury to the Initial Purchasers or the Holders for which there is no adequate remedy at law, that it will not be possible to measure damages for such injuries precisely and that, in the event of any such failure, the Initial Purchasers or any Holder may obtain such relief as may be required to specifically enforce the Company's obligations under Section 2(a) and Section 2(b) hereof; provided, however, that the additional interest provided for in Section 2(d) shall be the exclusive monetary remedy for breach by the Company and the Guarantors of the obligations under Section 2(a) and Section 2(b) hereof.
3.
.  (a) If required pursuant to Section 2(a) or Section 2(b) hereof, the Company shall, and (in the case of Sections 3(a)(i)-(v), (vii), (x) and (xi)) cause the Guarantors to, promptly as expeditiously as possible:
Registration Procedures
(i)
prepare and file with the SEC a Registration Statement on the appropriate form under the Securities Act, which form (x) shall be selected by the Company and the Guarantors, (y) shall, in the case of a Shelf Registration, be available for the sale of the Registrable Securities by the Holders thereof and (z) shall comply as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the applicable form and include all financial statements required by the SEC to be filed therewith; and use their reasonable best efforts to cause such Registration Statement to become effective and remain effective for the applicable period in accordance with Section 2 hereof;
(ii)
prepare and file with the SEC such amendments and post-effective amendments to each Registration Statement as may be necessary to keep such Registration Statement effective so long as and to the extent required by Section 2 hereof and cause each Prospectus to be supplemented by any required prospectus supplement and, as so supplemented, to be filed pursuant to Rule 424 under the Securities Act; that, to the extent permitted by law, any such amendment or supplement may be made by means of a Free Writing Prospectus, which Free Writing Prospectus shall be filed with the SEC if required to be so filed; and keep each Prospectus current during the period described in Section 4(3) of and Rule 174 under the Securities Act that is applicable to transactions by brokers or dealers with respect to the Registrable Securities or Exchange Securities;
provided
 
9
(iii)
in the case of a Shelf Registration, furnish to each Participating Holder, to counsel for the Initial Purchasers, to counsel for such Holders and to each Underwriter of an Underwritten Offering of Registrable Securities, if any, without charge, as many copies of each Prospectus or preliminary prospectus, and any amendment or supplement thereto (including any Free Writing Prospectus), as such Holder, counsel or Underwriter may reasonably request in order to facilitate the sale or other disposition of the Registrable Securities thereunder; and the Company consents, and shall cause the Guarantors to consent, to the use of such Prospectus, preliminary prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto (including any Free Writing Prospectus) in accordance with applicable law by each of the Participating Holders and any such Underwriters in connection with the offering and sale of the Registrable Securities covered by and in the manner described in such Prospectus, preliminary prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto (including any Free Writing Prospectus) in accordance with applicable law;
(iv)
use their reasonable best efforts to register or qualify the Registrable Securities under all applicable state securities or blue sky laws of such jurisdictions as any Participating Holder covered by a Registration Statement shall reasonably request in writing by the time the applicable Registration Statement becomes effective; cooperate with such Holders in connection with any filings required to be made with the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.; and do any and all other acts and things that may be reasonably necessary or advisable to enable each Holder to complete the disposition in each such jurisdiction of the Registrable Securities owned by such Holder; in each case that neither the Company nor any Guarantor shall be required, as a result of any such request or action, to (1) qualify as a foreign corporation or other entity or as a dealer in securities in any such jurisdiction where it would not otherwise be required to so qualify, (2) file any general consent or take any action that would subject it toservice of process in any such jurisdiction or (3) subject itself to taxation in any such jurisdiction if it is not so subject;
provided
(v)
notify counsel for the Initial Purchasers and, in the case of a Shelf Registration, notify each Participating Holder and counsel for such Participating Holders promptly and, if requested in writing by any such Participating Holder or counsel, confirm such advice in writing (1) when a Registration Statement has become effective, when any post-effective amendment thereto has been filed and becomes effective and when any amendment or supplement to the Prospectus has been filed, (2) of any request by the SEC or any state securities authority for amendments and supplements to a Registration Statement, or Prospectus or for additional information after the Registration Statement has become effective, (3) of the issuance by the SEC or any state securities authority of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of a Registration Statement or the initiation of any proceedings for that purpose, including the receipt by the Company of any notice of objection of the SEC to the use of a Shelf Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment thereto pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) under the Securities Act, (4) if, between the applicable effective date of a Shelf Registration Statement and the closing of any sale of Registrable Securities covered thereby, the representations and warranties of the Company or any Guarantor
 
10
contained in any underwriting agreement, securities sales agreement or other similar agreement, if any, relating to an offering of such Registrable Securities cease to be true and correct in all material respects or if the Company or any Guarantor receives any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification of the Registrable Securities for sale in any jurisdiction or the initiation of any proceeding for such purpose, (5) of the happening of any event known to the Companyduring the period a Registration Statement is effective that makes any statement made in such Registration Statement or the related Prospectus untrue in any material respect or that requires the making of any changes in such Registration Statement or Prospectus in order to make the statements therein not misleading and (6) of any determination by the Company or any Guarantor that a post-effective amendment to a Registration Statement or any amendment or supplement to the Prospectus would be appropriate;
(vi)
use their reasonable best efforts to obtain the withdrawal of any order suspending the effectiveness of a Registration Statement or, in the case of a Shelf Registration, the resolution of any objection of the SEC pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2), including by promptly filing an amendment to such Shelf Registration Statement on the proper form, and providing immediate notice to each Holder of the withdrawal of any such order or such resolution;
(vii)
in the case of a Shelf Registration, unless such document is available on the SEC's EDGAR system, furnish to each Participating Holder, without charge, at least one conformed copy of each Registration Statement and any post-effective amendment thereto (without any documents incorporated therein by reference or exhibits thereto, unless requested in writing);
(viii)
in the case of a Shelf Registration, cooperate with the Participating Holders to facilitate the timely preparation and delivery of certificates representing Registrable Securities to be sold and not bearing any restrictive legends and enable such Registrable Securities to be issued in such denominations and registered in such names (consistent with the provisions of the Indenture) as such Participating Holders may reasonably request at least two Business Days prior to the closing of any sale of Registrable Securities;
(ix)
in the case of a Shelf Registration, and subject to the right of the Company to suspend use of such Shelf Registration Statement pursuant to Section 3(d) of this Agreement in certain circumstances, upon the occurrence of any event contemplated by Section 3(a)(v)(5) hereof, use their reasonable best efforts to prepare and file with the SEC a supplement or post-effective amendment to such Shelf Registration Statement or the related Prospectus or any document incorporated therein by reference or file any other required document so that, as thereafter delivered (or, to the extent permitted by law, made available) to purchasers of the Registrable Securities, such Prospectus will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; and the Company shall notify the Participating Holders to suspend use of the Prospectus as promptly as
 
11
practicable after the occurrence of such an event, and such Holders hereby agree to suspend use of the Prospectus until the Company and the Guarantors have amended or supplemented the Prospectus to correct such misstatement or omission;
(x)
at a reasonable time prior to the filing of any Registration Statement, any Prospectus, any amendment to a Registration Statement or amendment or supplement to a Prospectus or of any document that is to be incorporated by reference into a Registration Statement, or a Prospectus (but only in connection with an Underwritten Offering), provide copies of such document to the Initial Purchasers and their counsel (and, in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, to the Participating Holders and their counsel) and make such of the representatives of the Company as shall be reasonably requested by the Initial Purchasers or their counsel (and, in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, the Participating Holders or their counsel) available for discussion of such document; and the Company shall not, at any time after initial filing of a Registration Statement, use or file any Prospectus, any amendment of or supplement to a Registration Statement or a Prospectus, or any document that is to be incorporated by reference into a Registration Statement, or a Prospectus (but only in connection with an Underwritten Offering), of which the Initial Purchasers and their counsel (and, in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, the Participating Holders and their counsel) shall not have previously been advised and furnished a copy or to which the Initial Purchasers or their counsel (and, in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, the Participating Holders or their counsel) shall reasonably object within three Business Days of receipt thereof; that no such objection shall be made to any Exchange Act filing of the Company incorporated by reference into the Prospectus which counsel to the Company has advised the Company must be filed to comply with the requirements of the Exchange Act;
provided
(xi)
obtain a CUSIP number for all Exchange Securities or Registrable Securities, as the case may be, not later than the initial effective date of a Registration Statement;
(xii)
cause the Indenture to be qualified under the Trust Indenture Act in connection with the registration of the Exchange Securities or Registrable Securities, as the case may be; cooperate with the Trustee and the Holders to effect such changes to the Indenture as may be required for the Indenture to be so qualified in accordance with the terms of the Trust Indenture Act; and execute, and use its reasonable best efforts to cause the Trustee to execute, all documents as may be required to effect such changes and all other forms and documents required to be filed with the SEC to enable the Indenture to be so qualified in a timely manner;
(xiii)
in the case of a Shelf Registration, make available for inspection by a representative of the Participating Holders (an ""), any Underwriter participating in any disposition pursuant to such Shelf Registration Statement, any attorneys and accountants designated by a majority in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Registrable Securities held by the Participating Holders to be included in such Shelf Registration and any attorneys and accountants designated by such
Inspector
 
12
Underwriter, at reasonable times and in a reasonable manner, all pertinent financial and other records, documents and properties of the Company and its subsidiaries as shall reasonably be necessary to enable them to exercise any applicable due diligence responsibilities, and cause the respective officers, directors and employees of the Company and the Guarantors to supply all information reasonably requested by any such Inspector, Underwriter, attorney or accountant in connection with a Shelf Registration Statement; that if any such information is identified by the Company or any Guarantor as being confidential or proprietary, each Person receiving such information shall take such actions as are reasonably necessary to protect the confidentiality of such information, including agreeing in writing to maintain the confidentiality of such information, to the extent such action is otherwise not inconsistent with, an impairment of or in derogation of the rights and interests of any Inspector, Holder or Underwriter;
provided
(xiv)
if reasonably requested by any Participating Holder, promptly include in a Prospectus supplement or post-effective amendment such information with respect to such Participating Holder as such Participating Holder reasonably requests to be included therein and make all required filings of such Prospectus supplement or such post-effective amendment within 10 business days after the Company has received notification of the matters to be so included in such filing; , that the Company shall not be required to make more than three such filings on behalf of all Participating Holders in any 30-day period;
provided
(xv)
in the case of a Shelf Registration, enter into such customary agreements and take all such other actions in connection therewith (including those requested by the Participating Holders of a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Registrable Securities held by the Participating Holders) in order to expedite or facilitate the disposition of such Registrable Securities including, but not limited to, an Underwritten Offering and in such connection, (1) to the extent possible, make such representations and warranties to the Participating Holders and any Underwriters of such Registrable Securities with respect to the business of the Company and its subsidiaries and the Registration Statement, Prospectus and documents incorporated by reference or deemed incorporated by reference, if any, in each case, substantially in the form, substance and scope contained in the Purchase Agreement with such modifications as may be agreed between the Company and the Underwriters, (2) obtain opinions of counsel to the Company and the Guarantors (which counsel and opinions, in form, scope and substance, shall be reasonably satisfactory to the Holders and such Underwriters and their respective counsel) addressed to each Participating Holder and Underwriter of Registrable Securities, covering the matters covered in the Purchase Agreement (modified as appropriate to reflect the public underwritten nature of the offering and with such modifications as may be agreed between the Company and the Underwriters), (3) obtain "comfort" letters from the independent registered public accountants of the Company and the Guarantors (and, if necessary, any other registered public accountant of any subsidiary of the Company or any Guarantor, or of any business acquired by the Company or any Guarantor for which financial statements and financial data are or are required to be
 
13
included in the Registration Statement) addressed to each Participating Holder (to the extent permitted by applicable professional standards) and Underwriter of Registrable Securities, such letters to be in customary form and covering matters of the type customarily covered in "comfort" letters in connection with underwritten offerings, including but not limited to financial information contained in any preliminary prospectus or Prospectus and (4) deliver such documents and certificates as may be reasonably requested by the Participating Holders of a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Registrable Securities being sold or the Underwriters, and which are customarily delivered in underwritten offerings, to evidence the continued validity of the representations and warranties of the Company made pursuant to clause (1) above and to evidence compliance with any customary conditions contained in an underwriting agreement.
(b)
In the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, the Company may require each Participating Holder to furnish to the Company a Notice and Questionnaire and such other information regarding such Holder and the proposed disposition by such Holder of such Registrable Securities as the Company may from time to time reasonably request in writing.
(c)
Each Participating Holder agrees that, upon receipt of any notice from the Company of the happening of any event of the kind described in Section 3(a)(v)(3), 3(a)(v)(5) or 3(f) hereof, such Participating Holder will forthwith discontinue disposition of Registrable Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement until the Company notifies the Participating Holder that it may again use the Shelf Registration Statement and, where necessary, such Participating Holder's receipt of the copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus (including any Free Writing Prospectus) contemplated by Section 3(a)(x) hereof.  If so directed by the Company, such Participating Holder will deliver to the Company all copies in its possession, other than permanent file copies then in such Participating Holder's possession, of the Prospectus covering such Registrable Securities that is current at the time of receipt of such notice of suspension (or any such Free Writing Prospectus).
(d)
If the Company shall give any notice to suspend the disposition of Registrable Securities pursuant to a Registration Statement, the Company and the Guarantors shall extend the period during which such Registration Statement shall be maintained effective pursuant to this Agreement by the number of days during the period from and including the date of the giving of such notice to and including the date when the Holders of such Registrable Securities shall have received copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus (including any Free Writing Prospectus) necessary to resume such dispositions.
(e)
The Participating Holders who desire to do so may sell such Registrable Securities in an Underwritten Offering.  In any such Underwritten Offering, the investment bank or investment banks and manager or managers (each an "") that will administer the offering will be selected by the Participating Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Registrable Securities included in such offering and shall be reasonably acceptable to the Company.  No Participating Holder may participate in any underwritten registration hereunder if such Participating Holder does not (a) agree to sell such Participating Holder's Registrable Securities on the basis provided in any underwriting arrangements
Underwriter
 
14
approved by the persons entitled hereunder to approve such arrangements and (b) complete and execute all questionnaires, powers of attorney, indemnities, underwriting agreements and other documents required under the terms of such underwriting arrangements.
(f)
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement,  the Company, upon advising the Initial Purchasers and each Participating Holder, may suspend the use of the Prospectus included in any Shelf Registration Statement in the event that and for periods of time not to exceed 30 consecutive days and for no more than 60 days during any 365 day period in which such suspensions are in effect (each such period, a  "") if (i) an event or circumstance occurs and is continuing as a result of which the Shelf Registration Statement, the related Prospectus or any document incorporated therein by reference as then amended or supplemented or proposed to be filed would, in the good faith judgment of  the Company, contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which  they were made, not misleading and (ii) (A) the Company determines in its good faith judgment that the disclosure of such event at such time would have a material adverse effect on the business, operations or prospects of the Company or (B) the disclosure otherwise relates to a material business transaction or development which has not been publicly disclosed; provided, however, that upon the termination of  such Suspension Period, the Company shall promptly advise the Initial Purchasers and each Participating Holder that such Suspension Period has been terminated.  No additional interest pursuant to Section 2(d) shall accrue or be payable during any such Suspension Period.
Suspension Period
4.
.  (a)  The Staff has taken the position that any broker-dealer that receives Exchange Securities for its own account in the Exchange Offer in exchange for Securities that were acquired by such broker-dealer as a result of market-making or other trading activities (a "") may be deemed to be an "underwriter" within the meaning of the Securities Act and must deliver a prospectus meeting the requirements of the Securities Act in connection with any resale of such Exchange Securities.
Participation of Broker-Dealers in Exchange Offer
Participating Broker-Dealer
 
The Company understands that it is the Staff's position that if the Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement includes a plan of distribution containing a statement to the above effect and the means by which Participating Broker-Dealers may resell the Exchange Securities, without naming the Participating Broker-Dealers or specifying the amount of Exchange Securities owned by them, such Prospectus may be delivered by Participating Broker-Dealers (or, to the extent permitted by law, made available to purchasers) to satisfy their prospectus delivery obligation under the Securities Act in connection with resales of Exchange Securities for their own accounts, so long as the Prospectus otherwise meets the requirements of the Securities Act.
(b)
In light of the above, and notwithstanding the other provisions of this Agreement, the Company agrees, and agrees to cause the Guarantors, to amend or supplement the Prospectus contained in any Exchange Offer Registration Statement required pursuant to Section 2 of this Agreement for a period of up to 180 days after the last Exchange Date (as such period may be extended pursuant to Section 3(d) of this Agreement) or such earlier date
 
15
as all Participating Broker-Dealers shall have notified the Company that such Participating Broker-Dealers have resold all Exchange Securities acquired in the Exchange Offer,in order to expedite or facilitate the disposition of any Exchange Securities by Participating Broker-Dealersconsistent with the positions of the Staff recited in Section 4(a) above.  The Company and the Guarantors further agree that Participating Broker-Dealers shall be authorized to deliver such Prospectus (or, to the extent permitted by law, make available) during such period in connection with the resales contemplated by this Section 4.
(c)
The Initial Purchasers shall have no liability to the Company, any Guarantor or any Holder with respect to any request that they may make pursuant to Section 4(b) above.
5.
.  (a)  The Company agrees, and agrees to cause the Guarantors, to indemnify and hold harmless each Initial Purchaser and each Holder, their respective affiliates, directors and officers and each Person, if any, who controls any Initial Purchaser or any Holder within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act, from and against any and all losses, claims, damages and liabilities (including, without limitation, legal fees and other expenses incurred in connection with any suit, action or proceeding or any claim asserted, as such fees and expenses are incurred), joint or several, that arise out of, or are based upon, (1) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Registration Statement or any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein not misleading, or (2) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Prospectus, any Free Writing Prospectus or any "issuer information" ("") filed or required to be filed pursuant to Rule 433(d) under the Securities Act, or any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, in each case except insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities arise out of, or are based upon, any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with any information relating to any Initial Purchaser furnished to the Company in writing through JPMorgan or information relating to any Holder furnished to the Company in writing by any selling Holder, respectively expressly for use therein.  In connection with any Underwritten Offering permitted by Section 3, the Company and the Guarantors, jointly and severally, will also indemnify the Underwriters, if any, selling brokers, dealers and similar securities industry professionals participating in the distribution, their respective affiliates and each Person who controls such Persons (within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act) to the same extent as provided above with respect to the indemnification of the Holders, if requested in connection with any Registration Statement, any Prospectus, any Free Writing Prospectus or any Issuer Information.
Indemnification and Contribution
Issuer Information
(b)
Each Holder agrees, severally and not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, the Guarantors, the Initial Purchasers and the other selling Holders, the directors of the Company and the Guarantors, each officer of the Company and the Guarantors who signed the Registration Statement and each Person, if any, who controls the Company, the Guarantors, any Initial Purchaser and any other selling Holder within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act to the same extent as the indemnity set forth in paragraph (a) above, but only with respect to any losses, claims,
 
16
damages or liabilities that arise out of, or are based upon, any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with any information relating to such Holder furnished to the Company in writing by such Holder expressly for use in any Registration Statement, any Prospectus and any Free Writing Prospectus.
(c)
If any suit, action, proceeding (including any governmental or regulatory investigation), claim or demand shall be brought or asserted against any Person in respect of which indemnification may be sought pursuant to either paragraph (a) or (b) above, such Person (the "") shall promptly notify the Person against whom such indemnification may be sought (the "") in writing; that the failure to notify the Indemnifying Person shall not relieve it from any liability that it may have under this Section 5 except to the extent that it has been materially prejudiced (through the forfeiture of substantive rights or defenses) by such failure; and , , that the failure to notify the Indemnifying Person shall not relieve it from any liability that it may have to an Indemnified Person otherwise than under this Section 5.  If any such proceeding shall be brought or asserted against an Indemnified Person and it shall have notified the Indemnifying Person thereof, the Indemnifying Person shall be entitled to participate and assume the defense thereof, unless the Indemnified Person shall have reasonably concluded that there may be legal defenses available to it that are different from or in addition to those available to the Indemnifying Person or the named parties in any such proceeding (including any impleaded parties) include both the Indemnifying Person and the Indemnified Person and representation of both parties by the same counsel would be inappropriate due to actual or potential differing interests between them, and shall retain counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnified Person to represent the Indemnified Person and any others entitled to indemnification pursuant to this Section 5 that the Indemnifying Person may designate in such proceeding and shall pay the fees and expenses of such proceeding and shall pay the fees and expenses of such counsel related to such proceeding, as incurred.  In any such proceeding, any Indemnified Person shall have the right to retain its own counsel, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such Indemnified Person unless (i) the Indemnifying Person and the Indemnified Person shall have mutually agreed to the contrary; (ii) the Indemnifying Person has failed within a reasonable time to retain counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnified Person; (iii) the Indemnified Person shall have reasonably concluded that there may be legal defenses available to it that are different from or in addition to those available to the Indemnifying Person; or (iv) the named parties in any such proceeding (including any impleaded parties) include both the Indemnifying Person and the Indemnified Person and representation of both parties by the same counsel would be inappropriate due to actual or potential differing interests between them.  It is understood and agreed that the Indemnifying Person shall not, in connection with any proceeding or related proceeding in the same jurisdiction, be liable for the fees and expenses of more than one separate firm (in addition to any local counsel) for all Indemnified Persons, and that all such fees and expenses shall be reimbursed as they are incurred.  Any such separate firm (x) for any Initial Purchaser, its affiliates, directors and officers and any control Persons of such Initial Purchaser shall be designated in writing by JPMorgan, (y) for any Holder, its directors and officers and any control Persons of such Holder shall be designated in writing by the Majority Holders and (z) in all other cases shall be designated in writing by the Company.  
Indemnified Person
Indemnifying Person
provided
provided
further
 
17
The Indemnifying Person shall not be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent, but if settled with such consent or if there be a final judgment for the plaintiff, the Indemnifying Person agrees to indemnify each Indemnified Person from and against any loss or liability by reason of such settlement or judgment.  Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, if at any time an Indemnified Person shall have requested that an Indemnifying Person reimburse the Indemnified Person for fees and expenses of counsel as contemplated by this paragraph, the Indemnifying Person shall be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 30 days after receipt by the Indemnifying Person of such request and (ii) prior to the date of such settlement, the Indemnifying Person shall not (A) have reimbursed the Indemnified Person in accordance with such request, or (B) notified the Indemnified Person that it disputes the Indemnified Person's entitlement to such expenses; that any such notification shall require that the Indemnifying Person have a reasonable basis for such dispute.  No Indemnifying Person shall, without the written consent of the Indemnified Person, effect any settlement of any pending or threatened proceeding in respect of which any Indemnified Person is or could have been a party and indemnification could have been sought hereunder by such Indemnified Person, unless such settlement (A) includes an unconditional release of such Indemnified Person, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to such Indemnified Person, from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such proceeding and (B) does not include any statement as to or any admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of any Indemnified Person.
provided
(d)
If the indemnification provided for in paragraphs (a) and (b) above is unavailable to an Indemnified Person or insufficient in respect of any losses, claims, damages or liabilities referred to therein, then each Indemnifying Person under such paragraph, in lieu of indemnifying such Indemnified Person thereunder, shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such Indemnified Person as a result of such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company and the Guarantors from the offering of the Securities and the Exchange Securities, on the one hand, and by the Holders from receiving Securities or Exchange Securities registered under the Securities Act, on the other hand, or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) but also the relative fault of the Company and the Guarantors on the one hand and the Holders on the other in connection with the statements or omissions that resulted in such losses, claims, damages or liabilities, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations.  The relative fault of the Company and the Guarantors on the one hand and the Holders on the other shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company and the Guarantors or by the Holders and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
(e)
The Company, the Guarantors and the Holders agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 5 were determined by allocation (even if the Holders were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation that does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in paragraph
pro
rata
 
18
(d) above.  The amount paid or payable by an Indemnified Person as a result of the losses, claims, damages and liabilities referred to in paragraph (d) above shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth above, any legal or other expenses incurred by such Indemnified Person in connection with any such action or claim.  Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 5, in no event shall a Holder be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which the Securities or Exchange Securities sold by such Holder exceeds the amount of any damages that such Holder has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission.  No Person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any Person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation.  The Holders' obligations to contribute pursuant to this Section 5 are several and not joint.
(f)
The remedies provided for in this Section 5 are not exclusive and shall not limit any rights or remedies that may otherwise be available to any Indemnified Person at law or in equity.
(g)
The indemnity and contribution provisions contained in this Section 5 shall remain operative and in full force and effect regardless of (i) any termination of this Agreement, (ii) any investigation made by or on behalf of the Initial Purchasers or any Holder or any Person controlling any Initial Purchaser or any Holder, or by or on behalf of the Company or the Guarantors or the officers or directors of or any Person controlling the Company or the Guarantors, (iii) acceptance of any of the Exchange Securities and (iv) any sale of Registrable Securities pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement.
6.
.
General
(a)
 The Company represents, warrants and agrees that (i) the rights granted to the Holders hereunder do not in any way conflict with and are not inconsistent with the rights granted to the holders of any other outstanding securities issued or guaranteed by the Company or any Guarantor under any other agreement and (ii) neither the Company nor any Guarantor has entered into, or on or after the date of this Agreement will enter into, any agreement that is inconsistent with the rights granted to the Holders of Registrable Securities in this Agreement or otherwise conflicts with the provisions hereof.
No Inconsistent Agreements.  
(b)
 The provisions of this Agreement, including the provisions of this sentence, may not be amended, modified or supplemented, and waivers or consents to departures from the provisions hereof may not be given unless the Company has obtained the written consent of Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Registrable Securities affected by such amendment, modification, supplement, waiver or consent; that no amendment, modification, supplement, waiver or consent to any departure from the provisions of Section 5 hereof shall be effective as against any Holder of Registrable Securities unless consented to in writing by such Holder.  Any amendments, modifications, supplements, waivers or consents pursuant to this Section 6(b) shall be by a writing executed by each of the parties hereto.
Amendments and Waivers.  
provided
 
19
(c)
 All notices and other communications provided for or permitted hereunder shall be made in writing by hand-delivery, registered first-class mail, telex, telecopier, or any courier guaranteeing overnight delivery (i) if to a Holder, at the most current address given by such Holder to the Company by means of a notice given in accordance with the provisions of this Section 6(c), which address initially is, with respect to the Initial Purchasers, the address set forth in the Purchase Agreement; (ii) if to the Company, initially at the Company's address set forth in the Purchase Agreement and thereafter at such other address, notice of which is given in accordance with the provisions of this Section 6(c); and (iii) to such other persons at their respective addresses as provided in the Purchase Agreement and thereafter at such other address, notice of which is given in accordance with the provisions of this Section 6(c).  All such notices and communications shall be deemed to have been duly given: at the time delivered by hand, if personally delivered; five Business Days after being deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, if mailed; when answered back, if telexed; when receipt is acknowledged, if telecopied; and on the next Business Day if timely delivered to an air courier guaranteeing overnight delivery.  Copies of all such notices, demands or other communications shall be concurrently delivered by the Person giving the same to the Trustee, at the address specified in the Indenture.
Notices.
(d)
This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the successors, assigns and transferees of each of the parties, including, without limitation and without the need for an express assignment, subsequent Holders; that nothing herein shall be deemed to permit any assignment, transfer or other disposition of Registrable Securities in violation of the terms of the Purchase Agreement or the Indenture.  If any transferee of any Holder shall acquire Registrable Securities in any manner, whether by operation of law or otherwise, such Registrable Securities shall be held subject to all the terms of this Agreement, and by taking and holding such Registrable Securities such Person shall be conclusively deemed to have agreed to be bound by and to perform all of the terms and provisions of this Agreement and such Person shall be entitled to receive the benefits hereof.  The Initial Purchasers (in their capacity as Initial Purchasers) shall have no liability or obligation to the Company or the Guarantors with respect to any failure by a Holder to comply with, or any breach by any Holder of, any of the obligations of such Holder under this Agreement.
Successors and Assigns.
provided
(e)
 Each Holder of Registrable Securities shall be a third party beneficiary to the agreements made hereunder between the Company, on the one hand, and the Initial Purchasers, on the other hand, and shall have the right to enforce such agreements directly to the extent it deems such enforcement necessary or advisable to protect its rights or the rights of other Holders hereunder.
Third Party Beneficiaries.
(f)
This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts.
 
20
(g)
The headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only, are not a part of this Agreement and shall not limit or otherwise affect the meaning hereof.
Headings.  
(h)
This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law.  
(j)
 This Agreement contains the entire agreement between the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all oral statements and prior writings with respect thereto.  If any term, provision, covenant or restriction contained in this Agreement is held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, void or unenforceable or against public policy, the remainder of the terms, provisions, covenants and restrictions contained herein shall remain in full force and effect and shall in no way be affected, impaired or invalidated.  The Company, the Guarantors and the Initial Purchasers shall endeavor in good faith negotiations to replace the invalid, void or unenforceable provisions with valid provisions the economic effect of which comes as close as possible to that of the invalid, void or unenforceable provisions.
Entire Agreement; Severability.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above.
 
21
SOUTHWESTERN ENERGY COMPANY
By:
/s/ GREG D. KERLEY              
Name: Greg D. Kerly
Title: Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Signature page to Registration Rights Agreement
 
Confirmed and accepted as of the date first above written:
J.P. Morgan Securities LLC
For itself and on behalf of the
 several Initial Purchasers listed on
 Schedule 1 to the Purchase Agreement
By:
/s/ ROBERT BOTTAMEDI                   
Authorized Signatory
          
Signature page to Registration Rights Agreement

Execution Version
February 29, 2012
J.P. Morgan Securities LLC  As Representative of the  several Initial Purchasers listed  in Schedule 1 hereto
c/o J.P. Morgan Securities LLC
383 Madison Avenue
New York, New York 10179
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Southwestern Energy Company, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), proposes to issue and sell to the several initial purchasers listed in Schedule 1 hereto (the "Initial Purchasers"), for whom you are acting as representative (the "Representative"), $1,000,000,000 principal amount of its 4.10% Senior Notes due 2022 (the "Securities").  The Securities will be issued pursuant to an Indenture to be dated as of March 5, 2012 (the "Indenture") among the Company, SEECO, Inc., an Arkansas corporation, Southwestern Energy Production Company, an Arkansas corporation, and Southwestern Energy Services Company, an Arkansas corporation (the "Guarantors") and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (the "Trustee"), and will be initially guaranteed on an unsecured senior basis by each of the Guarantors (the "Guarantees").
The Securities will be sold to the Initial Purchasers without being registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), in reliance upon an exemption therefrom.  The Company has prepared a preliminary offering memorandum dated February 29, 2012 (the "Preliminary Offering Memorandum") and will prepare an offering memorandum dated the date hereof (the "Offering Memorandum") setting forth information concerning the Company and the Securities.  Copies of the Preliminary Offering Memorandum have been, and copies of the Offering Memorandum will be, delivered by the Company to the Initial Purchasers pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.  The Company hereby confirms that it has authorized the use of the Preliminary Offering Memorandum, the other Time of Sale Information (as defined
Exhibit A
below), the Recorded Road Show (as defined below) and the Offering Memorandum in connection with the offering and resale of the Securities by the Initial Purchasers in the manner contemplated by this Agreement.  Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to such terms in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum.  References herein to the Preliminary Offering Memorandum, the Time of Sale Information and the Offering Memorandum shall be deemed to refer to and include any document incorporated by reference therein.
At or prior to the time when sales of the Securities were first made (the "Time of Sale"), the following information shall have been prepared (collectively, the "Time of Sale Information"): the Preliminary Offering Memorandum, as supplemented and amended by the written communications listed on Annex A hereto.
Holders of the Securities (including the Initial Purchasers and their direct and indirect transferees) will be entitled to the benefits of a Registration Rights Agreement, to be dated the Closing Date (as defined below) (the "Registration Rights Agreement"), pursuant to which the Company will agree and will cause the Guarantors to agree, under certain circumstances, to file one or more registration statements with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") providing for the registration under the Securities Act of the Securities or the Exchange Securities referred to (and as defined) in the Registration Rights Agreement.
The Company hereby confirms its agreement with the several Initial Purchasers concerning the purchase and resale of the Securities, as follows:
1.
.  (a)  The Company agrees to issue and sell the Securities to the several Initial Purchasers as provided in this Agreement, and each Initial Purchaser, on the basis of the representations, warranties and agreements set forth herein and subject to the conditions set forth herein, agrees, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Company the respective principal amount of Securities set forth opposite such Initial Purchaser's name in Schedule 1 hereto at a price equal to 99.227% of the principal amount thereof plus accrued interest, if any, from March 5, 2012 to the Closing Date.  The Company will not be obligated to deliver any of the Securities except upon payment for all the Securities to be purchased as provided herein.
Purchase and Resale of the Securities
(b)
The Company understands that the Initial Purchasers intend to offer the Securities for resale on the terms set forth in the Time of Sale Information.  Each Initial Purchaser, severally and not jointly, represents, warrants and agrees that:
(i)
it is a qualified institutional buyer within the meaning of Rule 144A under the Securities Act (a "QIB") and an accredited investor within the meaning of Rule 501(a) under the Securities Act;
(ii)
it has not solicited offers for, or offered or sold, and will not solicit offers for, or offer or sell, the Securities by means of any form of general solicitation or general advertising within the meaning of Rule 502(c) of Regulation
2
D under the Securities Act ("Regulation D") or in any manner involving a public offering within the meaning of Section 4(2) of the Securities Act; and
(iii)
it has not solicited offers for, or offered or sold, and will not solicit offers for, or offer or sell, the Securities as part of their initial offering except:
(A)
within the United States to persons whom it reasonably believes to be QIBs in transactions pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act ("Rule 144A") and in connection with each such sale, it has taken or will take reasonable steps to ensure that the purchaser of the Securities is aware that such sale is being made in reliance on Rule 144A; or
(B)
in accordance with the restrictions set forth in Annex C hereto.
(c)
Each Initial Purchaser acknowledges and agrees that the Company and, for purposes of the opinions to be delivered to the Initial Purchasers pursuant to Sections 6(f), 6(g) and 6(h), counsel for the Company, counsel for the Initial Purchasers and Arkansas counsel for the Company, respectively, may rely upon the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the Initial Purchasers, and compliance by the Initial Purchasers with their agreements, contained in paragraph (b) above (including Annex C hereto), and each Initial Purchaser hereby consents to such reliance.
  
(d)
The Company acknowledges and agrees that the Initial Purchasers may offer and sell Securities to or through any affiliate of an Initial Purchaser and that any such affiliate may offer and sell Securities purchased by it to or through any Initial Purchaser.
(e)
The Company acknowledges that the Initial Purchasers are acting solely in the capacity of an arm's length contractual counterparty to the Company and the Guarantors with respect to the offering of Securities contemplated hereby (including in connection with determining the terms of the offering) and not as financial advisors or fiduciaries to, or agents of, the Company, the Guarantors or any other person.  Additionally, neither the Representative nor any other Initial Purchaser is advising the Company, the Guarantors or any other person as to any legal, tax, investment, accounting or regulatory matters in any jurisdiction.  The Company and the Guarantors shall consult with their own advisors concerning such matters and shall be responsible for making their own independent investigation and appraisal of the transactions contemplated hereby, and neither the Representative nor any other Initial Purchaser shall have any responsibility or liability to the Company or the Guarantors with respect thereto. Any review by the Representative or any Initial Purchaser of the Company, the Guarantors, and the transactions contemplated hereby or other matters relating to such transactions will be performed solely for the benefit of the Representative or such Initial Purchaser, as the case may be, and shall not be on behalf of the Company, the Guarantors or any other person.
3
2.
.  (a)  Payment for and delivery of the Securities will be made at the offices of Vinson & Elkins L.L.P., Houston, Texas at 10:00 A.M., New York City time, on March 5, 2012, or at such other time or place on the same or such other date, not later than the fifth business day thereafter, as the Representative and the Company may agree upon in writing.  The time and date of such payment and delivery is referred to herein as the "Closing Date".
Payment and Delivery
(b)
Payment for the Securities shall be made by wire transfer in immediately available funds to the account(s) specified by the Company to the Representative against delivery to the nominee of The Depository Trust Company ("DTC"), for the account of the Initial Purchasers, of one or more global notes representing the Securities (collectively, the "Global Note"), with any transfer taxes payable in connection with the sale of the Securities duly paid by the Company.  The Global Note will be made available for inspection by the Representative not later than 1:00 P.M., New York City time, on the business day prior to the Closing Date.
3.
.  The Company represents and warrants to each Initial Purchaser that:
Representations and Warranties of the Company
(a)
 The Preliminary Offering Memorandum, as of its date, did not, the Time of Sale Information, at the Time of Sale, did not, and at the Closing Date, will not, and the Offering Memorandum, in the form first used by the Initial Purchasers to confirm sales of the Securities and as of the Closing Date, will not, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; that the Company makes no representation or warranty with respect to any statements or omissions made in reliance upon and in conformity with information relating to any Initial Purchaser furnished to the Company in writing by such Initial Purchaser through the Representative expressly for use in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum, the Time of Sale Information or the Offering Memorandum as set forth in Section 7(b) hereof.
Preliminary Offering Memorandum, Time of Sale Information and Offering Memorandum.
provided
(b)
.   The Company (including its agents and representatives, other than the Initial Purchasers in their capacity as such) has not prepared, made, used, authorized, approved or referred to and will not prepare, make, use, authorize, approve or refer to any written communication that constitutes an offer to sell or solicitation of an offer to buy the Securities (each such communication by the Company or its agents and representatives (other than a communication referred to in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) below) an "Issuer Written Communication") other than (i) the Preliminary Offering Memorandum, (ii) the Offering Memorandum, (iii) the documents listed on Annex A hereto, including a term sheet substantially in the form of Annex B hereto, which constitute part of the Time of Sale Information, and (iv) any electronic road show (the "Recorded Road Show") or other written communications, in each case used in accordance with Section 4(c).  Each such Issuer Written Communication, when taken together with the Time of Sale Information, did not, and at the Closing Date will
Additional Written Communications
4
not, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; that the Company makes no representation and warranty with respect to any statements or omissions made in each such Issuer Written Communication in reliance upon and in conformity with information relating to any Initial Purchaser furnished to the Company in writing by such Initial Purchaser through the Representative expressly for use in any Issuer Written Communication as set forth in Section 7(b) hereof.
provided
(c)
The documents incorporated by reference in each of the Time of Sale Information and the Offering Memorandum, when filed with the Commission, conformed or will conform, as the case may be, in all material respects to the requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder, and did not and will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
Incorporated Documents.  
(d)
 The consolidated financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries, together with the related notes incorporated by reference in each of the Time of Sale Information and the Offering Memorandum present fairly in all material respects the financial position of the Company and its subsidiaries as of the dates indicated and the results of their operations and the changes in their cash flows for the periods specified; such financial statements and related schedules have been prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, applied on a consistent basis throughout the periods covered thereby, except as disclosed therein, and all adjustments necessary for a fair presentation of results for such periods have been made; and the other financial information of the Company and its subsidiaries included or incorporated by reference in each of the Time of Sale Information and the Offering Memorandum has been derived from the accounting records of the Company and its subsidiaries and present fairly the information shown therein and such data have been compiled on a basis consistent with the financial statements presented in each of the Time of Sale Information and the Offering Memorandum and the books and records of the Company.
Financial Statements.
 
(e)
 Since the date of the most recent financial statements of the Company included or incorporated by reference in each of the Time of Sale Information and the Offering Memorandum (i) there has not been (a) any change in the capital stock or long-term debt of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, or (b) any dividend or distribution of any kind declared, set aside for payment, paid or made by the Company on any class of capital stock, or (c) any material adverse change, or any development involving a prospective change which has had or is reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on the business, properties, condition (financial or otherwise) or results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole or on the performance by the Company and the Guarantors of their obligations under
No Material Adverse Change.
5
the Securities and the Guarantees (a "Material Adverse Effect"); (ii) neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has entered into any transaction or agreement that is material to the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole or incurred any liability or obligation, direct or contingent, that is material to the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole; and (iii) neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has sustained any material loss of or interference with its business from fire, explosion, flood or other calamity, whether or not covered by insurance, or from any labor disturbance or dispute or any action, order or decree of any court or arbitrator or governmental or regulatory authority, except in each case as otherwise disclosed in the Time of Sale Information.
(f)
 The Company has been duly organized and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware, with corporate power and authority to own or lease its properties and conduct its business as described in each of the Time of Sale Information and the Offering Memorandum.  Each significant subsidiary (as such term is defined in Rule 1-02 of Regulation S-X) of the Company, is listed in Exhibit A hereto (each a "Significant Subsidiary," collectively, the "Significant Subsidiaries"), and each of the Significant Subsidiaries and Southwestern Energy Services Company ("SES") has been duly organized and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation, with corporate power and authority to own or lease its properties and conduct its business as described in each of the Time of Sale Information and the Offering Memorandum.  The Company and each of its subsidiaries are duly qualified to transact business and are in good standing in all jurisdictions in which the conduct of their business requires such qualification, except where the failure to be so qualified or to be in good standing would not have a Material Adverse Effect.
Organization and Good Standing.
(g)
 The information set forth under the caption "Capitalization" in each of the Time of Sale Information and the Offering Memorandum is true and correct; all outstanding shares of capital stock of each of the Significant Subsidiaries and SES have been duly authorized and validly issued, are fully paid and non-assessable and are wholly owned by the Company free and clear of all liens, encumbrances, restrictions on voting or transfer and equities and claims.  No options, warrants or other rights to purchase, agreements or other obligations to issue or other rights to convert any obligations into shares of capital stock or ownership interests in the Significant Subsidiaries and SES are outstanding; and all outstanding shares of capital stock of each of the Significant Subsidiaries and SES are owned directly or indirectly by the Company, free and clear of any lien, charge, encumbrance, security interest, restriction on voting or transfer or any other claim of any third party.
Capitalization.
(h)
 The Company and each of the Guarantors has corporate power and authority to execute and deliver this Agreement, the Securities, the Indenture (including each Guarantee set forth therein), the Exchange Securities and the Registration Rights Agreement (collectively, the "Transaction Documents") and to perform their respective obligations hereunder and thereunder; and all action required to be taken for the due and proper authorization, execution and delivery of each of the Transaction
Due Authorization.
6
Documents and the consummation of the transactions contemplated thereby has been duly and validly taken.
(i)
.  The Indenture has been duly authorized by the Company and each of the Guarantors and, when duly executed and delivered in accordance with its terms by each of the parties thereto, will constitute a valid, legal and binding agreement of the Company and each of the Guarantors enforceable against the Company and each of the Guarantors in accordance with its terms, except as enforceability may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent conveyance, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally or by legal principles of general applicability governing the availability of equitable remedies (whether considered in law or at equity) (collectively, the "Enforceability Exceptions"); and on the Closing Date, the Indenture will conform in all material respects to the requirements of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (the "Trust Indenture Act"), and the rules and regulations of the Commission applicable to an indenture that is qualified thereunder.
The Indenture
(j)
.  The Securities have been duly authorized by the Company and, when duly executed, authenticated, issued and delivered as provided in the Indenture and paid for as provided herein, will be duly and validly issued and outstanding and will constitute valid, legal and binding obligations of the Company enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, subject to the Enforceability Exceptions, and will be entitled to the benefits of the Indenture; and the Guarantees have been duly authorized by each of the Guarantors and, when the Securities have been duly executed, authenticated, issued and delivered as provided in the Indenture and paid for as provided herein, will be valid, legal and binding obligations of each of the Guarantors, enforceable against each of the Guarantors in accordance with their terms, subject to the Enforceability Exceptions, and will be entitled to the benefits of the Indenture.
The Securities and the Guarantees
(k)
.  On the Closing Date, the Exchange Securities (including the related guarantees) will have been duly authorized by the Company and each of the Guarantors and, when duly executed, authenticated, issued and delivered as contemplated by the Registration Rights Agreement, will be duly and validly issued and outstanding and will constitute valid, legal and binding obligations of the Company, as issuer, and, when the Exchange Securities have been duly executed, authenticated, issued and delivered as provided in the Indenture and by the Registration Rights Agreement, the guarantees relating to the Exchange Securities will constitute valid, legal and binding obligations of each of the Guarantors, as guarantor, enforceable against the Company and each of the Guarantors, respectively, in accordance with their terms, subject to the Enforceability Exceptions, and will be entitled to the benefits of the Indenture.
The Exchange Securities
(l)
 This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and each of the Guarantors and the Registration Rights Agreement has been duly authorized by the Company and
Purchase and Registration Rights Agreements.
7
on the Closing Date will be duly executed and delivered by the Company and, when duly executed and delivered in accordance with its terms by each of the parties thereto, will constitute a valid, legal and binding agreement of the Company enforceable in accordance with its terms, except as rights to indemnity or contribution thereunder may be limited by federal or state securities laws or the public policies underlying such laws and subject to the Enforceability Exceptions.
(m)
 Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is (i) in violation of its charter or by-laws or similar organizational documents; or (ii) in default, and no event has occurred that, with notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute such a default, in the due performance or observance of any term, covenant or condition contained in any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan agreement or other agreement or instrument to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or by which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is bound or to which any of the property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is subject; or (iii) in violation of any law, order, rule or regulation applicable to the Company or any of its subsidiaries of any court or of any regulatory body or administrative agency or other governmental body having jurisdiction, except for any such violation or default that could not reasonably be expected to, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
No Violation or Default.
(n)
The execution, delivery and performance by the Company and each of the Guarantors of each of the Transaction Documents to which each is a party, the issuance and sale of the Securities (including the Guarantees) and compliance by the Company and each of the Guarantors with the terms thereof and the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Transaction Documents will not (i) conflict with or result in a breach or violation of any of the terms or provisions of, or constitute a default under, or result in the creation or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries pursuant to, any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan agreement or other agreement or instrument to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or by which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is bound or to which any of the property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is subject, (ii) result in any violation of the provisions of the charter or by-laws or similar organizational documents of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or (iii) result in the violation of any law or statute or any judgment, order, rule or regulation of any court or arbitrator or governmental or regulatory authority, except, in the case of clauses (i) and (iii) above, for any such conflict, breach, violation or default that could not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
No Conflicts.  
(o)
.  No consent, approval, authorization, order, registration or qualification of or with any court or arbitrator or governmental or regulatory authority is required for the execution, delivery and performance by the Company and each of the Guarantors of each of the Transaction Documents to which each is a party, the issuance and sale of the Securities (including the Guarantees) and compliance by the Company and each of the Guarantors with the terms thereof and the consummation of the
No Consents Required
8
transactions contemplated by the Transaction Documents, except for such consents, approvals, authorizations, orders and registrations or qualifications as may be required (i) under applicable state securities laws in connection with the purchase and resale of the Securities by the Initial Purchasers and (ii) with respect to the Exchange Securities (including the related guarantees) under the Securities Act, the Trust Indenture Act and applicable state securities laws as contemplated by the Registration Rights Agreement.
(p)
 Except as described in each of the Time of Sale Information and the Offering Memorandum, there is no action, suit, claim or proceeding pending, or to the knowledge of the Company, threatened against the Company or any of its subsidiaries before any court or administrative agency or otherwise which, if determined adversely to the Company or any of its subsidiaries, could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Legal Proceedings.
(q)
 PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, who have certified certain consolidated financial statements of the Company are independent public accountants with respect to the Company and its subsidiaries within the applicable rules and regulations adopted by the Commission and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) and as required by the Securities Act.
Independent Accountants.
(r)
 Except as described in each of the Time of Sale Information and the documents incorporated by reference into the Offering Memorandum, as of the date hereof, each of the Company and its subsidiaries has (i) satisfactory or good and defensible title to substantially all of its interests in its oil and gas properties, title investigations having been carried out by or on behalf of such person in accordance with standards generally accepted in the oil and gas industry in the areas in which the Company and its subsidiaries operate and (ii) good and defensible title to all other real property and other material properties and assets owned by the Company or such subsidiary and (iii) valid, subsisting and enforceable leases for all of the properties and assets, real or personal, leased by them, except as the enforceability thereof may be limited by the Enforceability Exceptions, in each case free and clear of any security interests, mortgages, pledges, liens, encumbrances or charges of any kind, other than (i) those described in each of the Time of Sale Information and the Offering Memorandum or (ii) those that could not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
Title to Real and Personal Property.
(s)
 Each of the Company and its subsidiaries owns or possesses adequate rights to use the patents, patent rights, licenses, inventions, copyrights, know-how (including seismic data, trade secrets and other unpatented or unpatentable proprietary or confidential information, systems or procedures), trademarks, service marks and trade names (collectively and together with any applications or registrations for the foregoing, the "Intellectual Property") as necessary to conduct the business now operated by them and as proposed to be carried on as described in each of the Time of Sale Information and the Offering Memorandum, and neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has received any notice of infringement of or conflict with asserted rights of others with respect to any patent or proprietary rights, which infringement or
Title to Intellectual Property.
9
conflict (if the subject of any unfavorable decision, ruling or finding), individually or in the aggregate, would result in a Material Adverse Effect.
(t)
   No relationship, direct or indirect, exists between or among the Company or any of its subsidiaries, on the one hand, and the directors, officers, stockholders or other affiliates of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, on the other, that would be required by the Securities Act to be described or incorporated by reference in a registration statement to be filed with the Commission and that is not so described or incorporated by reference in each of the Time of Sale Information and the Offering Memorandum.  
No Undisclosed Relationships.
(u)
 Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is, and after giving effect to the offering and sale of the Securities and the application of the proceeds thereof as described in each of the Time of Sale Information and the Offering Memorandum none of them will be, an "investment company" or an entity "controlled" by an "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder (collectively, the "Investment Company Act").
Investment Company Act.
(v)
 In each case other than as could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, (i) the Company and its subsidiaries possess all licenses, certificates, permits, franchises, approvals, clearances and other regulatory authorizations ("Permits") from governmental or regulatory authorities that are necessary for the ownership or lease of their respective properties or the conduct of their respective businesses as currently conducted and to own, lease and operate their respective properties in the manner described in each of the Time of Sale Information and the Offering Memorandum, (ii) there is no claim, proceeding or controversy, pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened, involving the status of or sanctions under any of the Permits and (iii) to the knowledge of the Company, the Company and each of its subsidiaries has fulfilled and performed all of its obligations with respect to the Permits, and no event has occurred which allows, or after notice or lapse of time would allow, the revocation, termination, modification or other impairment of the rights of the Company or any of this subsidiaries under such Permit.
Licenses and Permits.
(w)
 Neither the Company nor any subsidiary is in violation of any statute, any rule, regulation, decision or order of any governmental agency or body or any court, domestic or foreign, relating to the use, disposal, generation, transportation or release of pollutants, hazardous substances, hazardous chemicals, toxic substances or radioactive and biological materials or relating to the protection or restoration of the environment or human exposure to hazardous chemicals, toxic substances or radioactive and biological materials (collectively, "Environmental Laws"), which violation could individually or in the aggregate have a Material Adverse Effect.  Neither the Company nor its subsidiaries own or operate any real property contaminated with any substance that is subject to or regulated by any Environmental Laws, is liable for any off-site disposal or contamination pursuant to any Environmental Laws, or is subject to any claim relating to any
Compliance With Environmental Laws.
10
Environmental Laws, which violation, contamination, liability or claim could individually or in the aggregate have a Material Adverse Effect; and, to the knowledge of the Company, there is no pending investigation which might lead to such a claim.
(x)
.  The Company maintains required "disclosure controls and procedures" (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) of the Exchange Act) that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Commission's rules and forms, including controls and procedures designed to ensure that such information is accumulated and communicated to the Company's management as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.  The Company and its subsidiaries have carried out evaluations of the effectiveness of their disclosure controls and procedures as required by Rule 13a-15 of the Exchange Act.
Disclosure Controls
(y)
 The Company and its subsidiaries maintain systems of "internal control over financial reporting" (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Exchange Act) that comply with the requirements of the Exchange Act and have been designed by, or under the supervision of, their respective principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.  The Company and its subsidiaries maintain internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurance that (i) transactions are executed in accordance with management's general or specific authorizations; (ii) transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles and to maintain asset accountability; (iii) access to assets is permitted only in accordance with management's general or specific authorization; and (iv) the recorded accountability for assets is compared with the existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences.  Except as disclosed in each of the Time of Sale Information and the Offering Memorandum, there are no material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in the Company's internal controls.
Accounting Controls.
(z)
The Company and each of its subsidiaries carry, or are covered by, insurance in such amounts and covering such risks as is adequate for the conduct of their respective businesses and the value of their respective properties and as is customary for companies engaged in similar industries.  All material policies of insurance insuring the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any of their respective businesses, assets, employees, officers and directors are in full force and effect, and the Company and its subsidiaries are in compliance with the terms of such policies in all material respects. There are no material claims by the Company or any of its subsidiaries under any such policy or instrument as to which an insurance company is denying liability or defending under a reservation of rights clause.
Insurance.  
(aa
)
.  The operations of the Company and its subsidiaries are and have been conducted at all times in compliance with
Compliance with Money Laundering Laws
11
applicable financial recordkeeping and reporting requirements of the Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act of 1970, as amended, the money laundering statutes of all jurisdictions, the rules and regulations thereunder and any related or similar rules, regulations or guidelines, issued, administered or enforced by any governmental agency (collectively, the "Money Laundering Laws") and no action, suit or proceeding by or before any court or governmental agency, authority or body or any arbitrator involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries with respect to the Money Laundering Laws is pending or, to the best knowledge of the Company, threatened.
(bb)
 Other than as contemplated by this Agreement, neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is a party to any contract, agreement or understanding with any person (other than this Agreement) that would give rise to a valid claim against any of them or any Initial Purchaser for a brokerage commission, finder's fee or like payment in connection with the offering and sale of the Securities.
No Broker's Fees.
(cc)
 On the Closing Date, the Securities will not be of the same class as securities listed on a national securities exchange registered under Section 6 of the Exchange Act or quoted in an automated inter-dealer quotation system; and each of the Preliminary Offering Memorandum and the Offering Memorandum, as of its respective date, contains or will contain all the information that, if requested by a prospective purchaser of the Securities, would be required to be provided to such prospective purchaser pursuant to Rule 144A(d)(4) under the Securities Act.
Rule 144A Eligibility.
(dd)
 Neither the Company nor any of its affiliates (as defined in Rule 501(b) of Regulation D) has, directly or through any agent, sold, offered for sale, solicited offers to buy or otherwise negotiated in respect of, any security (as defined in the Securities Act), that is or will be integrated with the sale of the Securities in a manner that would require registration of the Securities under the Securities Act.
No Integration.
(ee)
 None of the Company or any of its affiliates or any other person acting on its or their behalf (other than the Initial Purchasers, as to which no representation is made) has (i) solicited offers for, or offered or sold, the Securities by means of any form of general solicitation or general advertising within the meaning of Rule 502(c) of Regulation D or in any manner involving a public offering within the meaning of Section 4(2) of the Securities Act or (ii) engaged in any directed selling efforts within the meaning of Regulation S under the Securities Act ("Regulation S"), and all such persons have complied with the offering restrictions requirement of Regulation S.
No General Solicitation or Directed Selling Efforts.
(ff)
.  Assuming the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the Initial Purchasers contained in Section 1(b) (including Annex C hereto) and their compliance with their agreements set forth therein, it is not necessary, in connection with the issuance and sale of the Securities to the Initial Purchasers and the offer, resale and delivery of the Securities by the Initial Purchasers in the manner contemplated by this Agreement, the Time of Sale Information and the Offering Memorandum, to register the Securities under the Securities Act or to qualify the Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act.
Securities Law Exemptions
12
(gg)
 Neither the Company nor any of the Guarantors has taken, directly or indirectly, any action designed to or that could reasonably be expected to cause or result in any stabilization or manipulation of the price of the Securities.
No Stabilization.
(hh)
.  Neither the issuance, sale and delivery of the Securities nor the application of the proceeds thereof by the Company as described in each of the Time of Sale Information and the Offering Memorandum will violate Regulation T, U or X of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System or any other regulation of such Board of Governors.
Margin Rules
4.
.  The Company covenants and agrees with each Initial Purchaser that:
Further Agreements of the Company and the Guarantors
(a)
 The Company will deliver, without charge, to the Initial Purchasers as many copies of the Preliminary Offering Memorandum, any other Time of Sale Information, any Issuer Written Communication and the Offering Memorandum (including all amendments and supplements thereto) as the Representative may reasonably request.
Delivery of Copies.
(b)
 Before finalizing the Offering Memorandum or making or distributing any amendment or supplement to any of the Time of Sale Information or the Offering Memorandum or filing with the Commission any document that will be incorporated by reference therein, the Company will furnish to the Representative and counsel for the Initial Purchasers a copy of the proposed Offering Memorandum or such amendment or supplement or document to be incorporated by reference therein for review, and will not distribute any such proposed Offering Memorandum, amendment or supplement or file any such document with the Commission to which the Representative reasonably objects, provided, however, the Representative shall not object to the filing with the Commission of any document to be incorporated by reference in the Offering Memorandum that, upon advice of the Company's legal counsel, is determined to be required by the Exchange Act.
Offering Memorandum, Amendments or Supplements.
(c)
 Before making, preparing, using, authorizing, approving or referring to any Issuer Written Communication, the Company will furnish to the Representative and counsel for the Initial Purchasers a copy of such written communication for review and will not use, approve or refer to any such written communication to which the Representative reasonably objects.
Additional Written Communications.
(d)
 The Company will advise the Representative promptly, and confirm such advice in writing, (i) of the issuance by any governmental or regulatory authority of any order preventing or suspending the use of any of the Time of Sale Information, any Issuer Written Communication or the Offering Memorandum or the initiation or threatening of any proceeding for that purpose; (ii) of the occurrence of any event at any time prior to the completion of the initial offering of
Notice to the Representative.
13
the Securities as a result of which any of the Time of Sale Information, any Issuer Written Communication or the Offering Memorandum as then amended or supplemented would include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances existing when such Time of Sale Information, Issuer Written Communication or the Offering Memorandum is delivered to a purchaser, not misleading; and (iii) of the receipt by the Company of any notice with respect to any suspension of the qualification of the Securities for offer and sale in any jurisdiction or the initiation or threatening of any proceeding for such purpose; and the Company will use its reasonable best efforts to prevent the issuance of any such order preventing or suspending the use of any of the Time of Sale Information, any Issuer Written Communication or the Offering Memorandum or suspending any such qualification of the Securities and, if any such order is issued, will obtain as soon as possible the withdrawal thereof.
(e)
If at any time prior to the Closing Date (i) any event shall occur or condition shall exist as a result of which any of the Time of Sale Information as then amended or supplemented would include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading or (ii) it is necessary to amend or supplement any of the Time of Sale Information to comply with law, the Company will immediately notify the Initial Purchasers thereof and forthwith prepare and, subject to paragraph (b) above, furnish to the Initial Purchasers such amendments or supplements to any of the Time of Sale Information (or any document to be filed with the Commission and incorporated by reference therein) as may be necessary so that the statements in any of the Time of Sale Information as so amended or supplemented will not, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, be misleading or so that any of the Time of Sale Information will comply with law.  
Time of Sale Information.  
(f)
 If at any time prior to the completion of the initial offering of the Securities (i) any event shall occur or condition shall exist as a result of which the Offering Memorandum as then amended or supplemented would include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances existing when the Offering Memorandum is delivered to a purchaser, not misleading or (ii) it is necessary to amend or supplement the Offering Memorandum to comply with law, the Company will immediately notify the Initial Purchasers thereof and forthwith prepare and, subject to paragraph (b) above, furnish to the Initial Purchasers such amendments or supplements to the Offering Memorandum (or any document to be filed with the Commission and incorporated by reference therein) as may be necessary so that the statements in the Offering Memorandum as so amended or supplemented (including such document to be incorporated by reference therein) will not, in the light of the circumstances existing when the Offering Memorandum is delivered to a purchaser, be misleading or so that the Offering Memorandum will comply with law.
Ongoing Compliance of the Offering Memorandum.
14
(g)
 The Company will cooperate with the Representative in endeavoring to qualify the Securities for offer and sale under the securities or Blue Sky laws of such jurisdictions as the Representative shall reasonably request in writing and will endeavor to continue such qualifications in effect so long as reasonably required for the offering and resale of the Securities; that neither the Company nor any of the Guarantors shall be required to (i) qualify as a foreign corporation or other entity or as a dealer in securities in any such jurisdiction where it would not otherwise be required to so qualify, (ii) file any general consent to service of process in any such jurisdiction or (iii) subject itself to taxation in any such jurisdiction if it is not otherwise so subject.
Blue Sky Compliance.
provided
(h)
 During the period from the date hereof through and including the date that is 30 days after the date hereof, the Company and each of the Guarantors will not, without the prior written consent of the Representative, offer, sell, contract to sell or otherwise dispose of any debt securities issued or guaranteed by the Company or any of the Guarantors and having a tenor of more than one year.
Clear Market.
(i)
 The Company will apply the net proceeds from the sale of the Securities as described in each of the Time of Sale Information and the Offering Memorandum under the heading "Use of proceeds".
Use of Proceeds.
(j)
 While the Securities remain outstanding and are "restricted securities" within the meaning of Rule 144(a)(3) under the Securities Act, the Company and each of the Guarantors will, during any period in which the Company is not subject to and in compliance with Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, furnish to holders of the Securities and prospective purchasers of the Securities designated by such holders, upon the request of such holders or such prospective purchasers, the information required to be delivered pursuant to Rule 144A(d)(4) under the Securities Act.
Supplying Information.
(k)
  The Company will assist the Initial Purchasers in arranging for the Securities to be eligible for clearance and settlement through DTC.
DTC.
(l)
 The Company will not, and will not permit any of its affiliates (as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act) to, resell any of the Securities that have been acquired by any of them, except for Securities purchased by the Company or any of its affiliates and resold in a transaction registered under the Securities Act.
No Resales by the Company.
(m)
 Neither the Company nor any of its affiliates (as defined in Rule 501(b) of Regulation D) will, directly or through any agent, sell, offer for sale, solicit offers to buy or otherwise negotiate in respect of, any security (as defined in the Securities Act), that is or will be integrated with the sale of the Securities in a manner that would require registration of the Securities under the Securities Act.
No Integration.
(n)
 None of the Company or any of its affiliates or any other person acting on its or their behalf (other than the Initial Purchasers, as to which no covenant is given) will (i) solicit offers for, or offer or
No General Solicitation or Directed Selling Efforts.
15
sell, the Securities by means of any form of general solicitation or general advertising within the meaning of Rule 502(c) of Regulation D or in any manner involving a public offering within the meaning of Section 4(2) of the Securities Act or (ii) engage in any directed selling efforts within the meaning of Regulation S, and all such persons will comply with the offering restrictions requirement of Regulation S.
(o)  
 Neither the Company nor any of the Guarantors will take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to or that could reasonably be expected to cause or result in any stabilization or manipulation of the price of the Securities.
No Stabilization.
5.
.
Certain Agreements of the Initial Purchasers
Each Initial Purchaser hereby represents and agrees that it has not and will not use, authorize use of, refer to, or participate in the planning for use of, any written communication that constitutes an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy the Securities other than (i) the Preliminary Offering Memorandum and the Offering Memorandum, (ii) a written communication that contains no "issuer information" (as defined in Rule 433(h)(2) under the Securities Act) that was not included (including through incorporation by reference) in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum or the Offering Memorandum, (iii) any written communication listed on Annex A or prepared pursuant to Section 4(c) above (including any electronic road show), (iv) any written communication prepared by such Initial Purchaser and approved by the Company in advance in writing or (v) any written communication relating to or that contains the terms of the Securities and/or other information that was included (including through incorporation by reference) in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum or the Offering Memorandum.
6.
 The obligation of each Initial Purchaser to purchase Securities on the Closing Date as provided herein is subject to the performance by the Company and each of the Guarantors of their respective covenants and other obligations hereunder and to the following additional conditions:
Conditions of Initial Purchasers' Obligations.
(a)
 The representations and warranties of the Company and the Guarantors contained herein shall be true and correct on the date hereof and on and as of the Closing Date; and the statements of the Company, the Guarantors and their respective officers made in any certificates delivered pursuant to this Agreement shall be true and correct on and as of the Closing Date.
Representations and Warranties.
(b)
 Subsequent to the earlier of (A) the Time of Sale and (B) the execution and delivery of this Agreement, (i) no downgrading shall have occurred in the rating accorded the Securities or any other debt securities or preferred stock issued or guaranteed by the Company by any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization", as such term is defined by the Commission for purposes of Rule 436(g)(2) under the Securities Act; and (ii) no such organization shall have publicly announced that it has under surveillance or review, or has changed its outlook with respect to, its rating of the Securities or of any other debt securities or preferred stock issued or guaranteed by the Company (other than an announcement with positive implications of a possible upgrading).
No Downgrade.
16
(c)
 No event or condition of a type described in Section 3(e) hereof shall have occurred or shall exist, which event or condition is not described in each of the Time of Sale Information (excluding any amendment or supplement thereto) and the Offering Memorandum (excluding any amendment or supplement thereto) the effect of which in the reasonable judgment of the Representative makes it impracticable or inadvisable to proceed with the offering, sale or delivery of the Securities on the terms and in the manner contemplated by this Agreement, the Time of Sale Information and the Offering Memorandum.
No Material Adverse Change.
(d)
 The Representative shall have received on and as of the Closing Date a certificate of an executive officer of the Company who has specific knowledge of the Company's financial matters and is satisfactory to the Representative (i) confirming that such officer has carefully reviewed the Time of Sale Information and the Offering Memorandum and, to the best knowledge of such officer, the representations set forth in Sections 3(a) and 3(b) hereof are true and correct, (ii) confirming that the other representations and warranties of the Company in this Agreement are true and correct and that the Company and the Guarantors have complied with all agreements and satisfied all conditions on their part to be performed or satisfied hereunder at or prior to the Closing Date and (iii) to the effect set forth in paragraphs (b) and (c) above.
Officer's Certificate.
(e)
 On the date of this Agreement and on the Closing Date, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP shall have furnished to the Representative, at the request of the Company, letters, dated the respective dates of delivery thereof and addressed to the Initial Purchasers, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Representative, containing statements and information of the type customarily included in accountants' "comfort letters" to underwriters with respect to the financial statements and certain financial information contained or incorporated by reference in each of the Time of Sale Information and the Offering Memorandum; that the letter delivered on the Closing Date shall use a "cut-off" date no more than three business days prior to the Closing Date.
Comfort Letters.
provided
(f)
 Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP, counsel for the Company, shall have furnished to the Representative, at the request of the Company, their written opinion and 10b-5 statement, dated the Closing Date and addressed to the Initial Purchasers, substantially in the form and substance agreed hereto between the Representative and the Company as of the date hereof.
Opinion and 10b-5 Statement of Counsel for the Company.
(g)
 The Representative shall have received on and as of the Closing Date an opinion and 10b-5 statement of Vinson & Elkins L.L.P., counsel for the Initial Purchasers, with respect to such matters as the Representative may reasonably request, and such counsel shall have received such documents and information as they may reasonably request to enable them to pass upon such matters.
Opinion and 10b-5 Statement of Counsel for the Initial Purchasers.
17
(h)
.  The Representative shall have received on and as of the Closing Date the opinion of Friday, Eldredge & Clark, LLP, Arkansas counsel for the Company, substantially in the form and substance agreed hereto between the Representative and the Company as of the date hereof.
Opinion of Arkansas Counsel of the Company
(i)
.  The Representative shall have received on and as of the Closing Date the opinion of Mark K. Boling, Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of the Company substantially in the form and substance agreed hereto between the Representative and the Company as of the date hereof.
Opinion of In-House Counsel of the Company
(j)
 No action shall have been taken and no statute, rule, regulation or order shall have been enacted, adopted or issued by any federal, state or foreign governmental or regulatory authority that would, as of the Closing Date, prevent the issuance or sale of the Securities or the issuance of the Guarantees; and no injunction or order of any federal, state or foreign court shall have been issued that would, as of the Closing Date, prevent the issuance or sale of the Securities or the issuance of the Guarantees.
No Legal Impediment to Issuance.
(k)
.  The Representative shall have received on and as of the Closing Date satisfactory evidence of the good standing of the Company and the Guarantors in their respective jurisdictions of organization and their good standing in such other jurisdictions as the Representative may reasonably request, in each case in writing or any standard form of telecommunication, from the appropriate governmental authorities of such jurisdictions.
Good Standing
(l)
 The Initial Purchasers shall have received a counterpart of the Registration Rights Agreement that shall have been executed and delivered by a duly authorized officer of the Company.
Registration Rights Agreement.
(m)
 The Securities shall be eligible for clearance and settlement through DTC.
DTC.
(n)
.  The Representatives shall have received on and as of the Closing Date a letter from Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc., independent petroleum engineers for the Company in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Representative, to the effect set forth in Annex D hereto.
Reserve Engineer Letter
(o)
 On or prior to the Closing Date, the Company shall have furnished to the Representative such further certificates and documents as the Representative may reasonably request.
Additional Documents.
All opinions, letters, certificates and evidence mentioned above or elsewhere in this Agreement shall be deemed to be in compliance with the provisions hereof only if they are in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to counsel for the Initial Purchasers.
18
7.
.  
Indemnification and Contribution
(a)
 The Company and each of the Guarantors jointly and severally agree to indemnify and hold harmless each Initial Purchaser, its affiliates, directors and officers and each person, if any, who controls such Initial Purchaser within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act, from and against any and all losses, claims, damages and liabilities (including, without limitation, legal fees and other expenses incurred in connection with any suit, action or proceeding or any claim asserted, as such fees and expenses are incurred), joint or several, that arise out of, or are based upon, any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in or incorporated by reference in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum, any of the other Time of Sale Information, the Recorded Road Show, any Issuer Written Communication or the Offering Memorandum (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, in each case except insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities arise out of, or are based upon, any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with any information relating to any Initial Purchaser furnished to the Company in writing by such Initial Purchaser through the Representative expressly for use therein.
Indemnification of the Initial Purchasers.
(b)
 Each Initial Purchaser agrees, severally and not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, each of the Guarantors, each of their respective directors and officers and each person, if any, who controls the Company or any of the Guarantors within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act to the same extent as the indemnity set forth in paragraph (a) above, but only with respect to any losses, claims, damages or liabilities that arise out of, or are based upon, any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with any information relating to such Initial Purchaser furnished to the Company in writing by such Initial Purchaser through the Representative expressly for use in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum, any of the other Time of Sale Information, any Issuer Written Communication or the Offering Memorandum (or any amendment or supplement thereto), it being understood and agreed that the only such information consists of the following:  (i) the marketing names of the Initial Purchasers appearing on the cover of the Offering Memorandum; and (ii) the third paragraph, the fourth and fifth sentences of the ninth paragraph, the eleventh, twelfth and thirteenth paragraphs under the caption "Plan of distribution" in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum (excluding language in the twelfth paragraph concerning the Company's intended use of proceeds).
Indemnification of the Company.
(c)
 If any suit, action, proceeding (including any governmental or regulatory investigation), claim or demand shall be brought or asserted against any person in respect of which indemnification may be sought pursuant to either paragraph (a) or (b) above, such person (the "Indemnified Person") shall promptly notify
Notice and Procedures.
19
the person against whom such indemnification may be sought (the "Indemnifying Person") in writing; that the failure to notify the Indemnifying Person shall not relieve it from any liability that it may have under this Section 7 except to the extent that it has been materially prejudiced (through the forfeiture of substantive rights or defenses) by such failure; and , , that the failure to notify the Indemnifying Person shall not relieve it from any liability that it may have to an Indemnified Person otherwise than under this Section 7.  If any such proceeding shall be brought or asserted against an Indemnified Person and it shall have notified the Indemnifying Person thereof, the Indemnifying Person shall retain counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnified Person (who shall not, without the consent of the Indemnified Person, be counsel to the Indemnifying Person) to represent the Indemnified Person and any others entitled to indemnification pursuant to this Section 7 that the Indemnifying Person may designate in such proceeding and shall pay the fees and expenses of such proceeding and shall pay the fees and expenses of such counsel related to such proceeding, as incurred.  In any such proceeding, any Indemnified Person shall have the right to retain its own counsel, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such Indemnified Person unless (i) the Indemnifying Person and the Indemnified Person shall have mutually agreed to the contrary; (ii) the Indemnifying Person has failed within a reasonable time to retain counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnified Person; (iii)the Indemnified Person shall have reasonably concluded that there may be legal defenses available to it that are different from or in addition to those available to the Indemnifying Person; or (iv) the named parties in any such proceeding (including any impleaded parties) include both the Indemnifying Person and the Indemnified Person and representation of both parties by the same counsel would be inappropriate due to actual or potential differing interests between them.  It is understood and agreed that the Indemnifying Person shall not, in connection with any proceeding or related proceeding in the same jurisdiction, be liable for the fees and expenses of more than one separate firm (in addition to any local counsel) for all Indemnified Persons, and that all such fees and expenses shall be reimbursed as they are incurred.  Any such separate firm for any Initial Purchaser, its affiliates, directors and officers and any control persons of such Initial Purchaser shall be designated in writing by the Representative and any such separate firm for the Company, the Guarantors, their respective directors and officers and any control persons of the Company and the Guarantors shall be designated in writing by the Company.  The Indemnifying Person shall not be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent, but if settled with such consent or if there be a final judgment for the plaintiff, the Indemnifying Person agrees to indemnify each Indemnified Person from and against any loss or liability by reason of such settlement or judgment.  Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, if at any time an Indemnified Person shall have requested that an Indemnifying Person reimburse the Indemnified Person for fees and expenses of counsel as contemplated by this paragraph, the Indemnifying Person shall be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 30 days after receipt by the Indemnifying Person of such request and (ii) the Indemnifying Person shall not have reimbursed the Indemnified Person in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement.  No Indemnifying Person shall, without the written consent of the Indemnified Person, effect any settlement of any pending or
provided
provided
further
 
20
threatened proceeding in respect of which any Indemnified Person is or could have been a party and indemnification could have been sought hereunder by such Indemnified Person, unless such settlement (x) includes an unconditional release of such Indemnified Person, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to such Indemnified Person, from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such proceeding and (y) does not include any statement as to or any admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of any Indemnified Person.
(d)
 If the indemnification provided for in paragraphs (a) and (b) above is unavailable to an Indemnified Person or insufficient in respect of any losses, claims, damages or liabilities referred to therein, then each Indemnifying Person under such paragraph, in lieu of indemnifying such Indemnified Person thereunder, shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such Indemnified Person as a result of such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company and the Guarantors on the one hand and the Initial Purchasers on the other from the offering of the Securities or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) but also the relative fault of the Company and the Guarantors on the one hand and the Initial Purchasers on the other in connection with the statements or omissions that resulted in such losses, claims, damages or liabilities, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations.  The relative benefits received by the Company and the Guarantors on the one hand and the Initial Purchasers on the other shall be deemed to be in the same respective proportions as the net proceeds (before deducting expenses) received by the Company from the sale of the Securities and the total discounts and commissions received by the Initial Purchasers in connection therewith, as provided in this Agreement, bear to the aggregate offering price of the Securities.  The relative fault of the Company and the Guarantors on the one hand and the Initial Purchasers on the other shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company or any Guarantor or by the Initial Purchasers and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
Contribution.
(e)
 The Company, the Guarantors and the Initial Purchasers agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 7 were determined by allocation (even if the Initial Purchasers were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation that does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in paragraph (d) above.  The amount paid or payable by an Indemnified Person as a result of the losses, claims, damages and liabilities referred to in paragraph (d) above shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth above, any legal or other expenses incurred by such Indemnified Person in connection with any such action or claim.  Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 7, in no event shall an Initial Purchaser be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total discounts and commissions received by such Initial Purchaser with respect to the offering of the
Limitation on Liability.
pro
rata
21
Securities exceeds the amount of any damages that such Initial Purchaser has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission.  No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation.  The Initial Purchasers' obligations to contribute pursuant to this Section 7 are several in proportion to their respective purchase obligations hereunder and not joint.
(f)
 The remedies provided for in this Section 7 are not exclusive and shall not limit any rights or remedies that may otherwise be available to any Indemnified Person at law or in equity.
Non-Exclusive Remedies.
8.
.  This Agreement may be terminated in the absolute discretion of the Representative, by notice to the Company, if after the execution and delivery of this Agreement and on or prior to the Closing Date (i) trading generally shall have been suspended or materially limited on the New York Stock Exchange; (ii) trading of any securities issued or guaranteed by the Company or any of the Guarantors shall have been suspended on any exchange or in any over-the-counter market; (iii) a general moratorium on commercial banking activities shall have been declared by federal or New York State authorities; or (iv) there shall have occurred any outbreak or escalation of hostilities or any change in financial markets or any calamity or crisis, either within or outside the United States, that, in the reasonable judgment of the Representative, is material and adverse and makes it impracticable or inadvisable to proceed with the offering, sale or delivery, of the Securities on the terms and in the manner contemplated by this Agreement, the Time of Sale Information and the Offering Memorandum.
Termination
9.
.  (a)  If, on the Closing Date, any Initial Purchaser defaults on its obligation to purchase the Securities that it has agreed to purchase hereunder, the non-defaulting Initial Purchasers may in their discretion arrange for the purchase of such Securities by other persons satisfactory to the Company on the terms contained in this Agreement.  If, within 36 hours after any such default by any Initial Purchaser, the non-defaulting Initial Purchasers do not arrange for the purchase of such Securities, then the Company shall be entitled to a further period of 36 hours within which to procure other persons satisfactory to the non-defaulting Initial Purchasers to purchase such Securities on such terms.  If other persons become obligated or agree to purchase the Securities of a defaulting Initial Purchaser, either the non-defaulting Initial Purchasers or the Company may postpone the Closing Date for up to five full business days in order to effect any changes that in the opinion of counsel for the Company or counsel for the Initial Purchasers may be necessary in the Time of Sale Information, the Offering Memorandum or in any other document or arrangement, and the Company agrees to promptly prepare any amendment or supplement to the Time of Sale Information or the Offering Memorandum that effects any such changes.  As used in this Agreement, the term "Initial Purchaser" includes, for all purposes of this Agreement unless the context otherwise requires, any person not listed in Schedule 1 hereto that, pursuant to this Section 9, purchases Securities that a defaulting Initial Purchaser agreed but failed to purchase.
Defaulting Initial Purchaser
22
(b)
If, after giving effect to any arrangements for the purchase of the Securities of a defaulting Initial Purchaser or Initial Purchasers by the non-defaulting Initial Purchasers and the Company as provided in paragraph (a) above, the aggregate principal amount of such Securities that remains unpurchased does not exceed one-tenth of the aggregate principal amount of all the Securities, then the Company shall have the right to require each non-defaulting Initial Purchaser to purchase the principal amount of Securities that such Initial Purchaser agreed to purchase hereunder plus such Initial Purchaser's share (based on the principal amount of Securities that such Initial Purchaser agreed to purchase hereunder) of the Securities of such defaulting Initial Purchaser or Initial Purchasers for which such arrangements have not been made.
pro
rata
(c)
If, after giving effect to any arrangements for the purchase of the Securities of a defaulting Initial Purchaser or Initial Purchasers by the non-defaulting Initial Purchasers and the Company as provided in paragraph (a) above, the aggregate principal amount of such Securities that remains unpurchased exceeds one-tenth of the aggregate principal amount of all the Securities, or if the Company shall not exercise the right described in paragraph (b) above, then this Agreement shall terminate without liability on the part of the non-defaulting Initial Purchasers.  Any termination of this Agreement pursuant to this Section 9 shall be without liability on the part of the Company or the Guarantors, except that the Company and each of the Guarantors will continue to be liable for the payment of expenses as set forth in Section 10 hereof and except that the provisions of Section 7 hereof shall not terminate and shall remain in effect.
(d)
Nothing contained herein shall relieve a defaulting Initial Purchaser of any liability it may have to the Company, the Guarantors or any non-defaulting Initial Purchaser for damages caused by its default.
10.
 (a)  Whether or not the transactions contemplated by this Agreement are consummated or this Agreement is terminated, the Company and each of the Guarantors jointly and severally agree to pay or cause to be paid all costs and expenses incident to the performance of their respective obligations hereunder, including without limitation, (i) the costs incident to the authorization, issuance, sale, preparation and delivery of the Securities and any taxes payable in that connection; (ii) the costs incident to the preparation and printing of the Preliminary Offering Memorandum, any other Time of Sale Information, any Issuer Written Communication and the Offering Memorandum (including any amendment or supplement thereto) and the distribution thereof; (iii) the costs of reproducing and distributing each of the Transaction Documents; (iv) the fees and expenses of the Company's and the Guarantors' counsel and independent accountants; (v) the reasonable fees and expenses incurred in connection with the registration or qualification and determination of eligibility for investment of the Securities under the laws of such jurisdictions as the Representative may designate and the preparation, printing and distribution of a Blue Sky Memorandum (including the related reasonable fees and expenses of counsel for the Initial Purchasers); (vi) any fees charged by rating agencies for rating the Securities; (vii) the fees and expenses of the Trustee and any paying agent (including related fees and expenses of any counsel to such
Payment of Expenses
.
23
parties); (viii) all expenses and application fees incurred in connection with the application for the approval of the Securities for book-entry transfer by DTC; and (ix) all expenses incurred by the Company in connection with any "road show" presentation to potential investors.
(b)
If (i) this Agreement is terminated pursuant to Section 8, (ii) the Company for any reason fails to tender the Securities for delivery to the Initial Purchasers or (iii) the Initial Purchasers decline to purchase the Securities for any reason permitted under this Agreement, the Company and each of the Guarantors jointly and severally agrees to reimburse the Initial Purchasers for all out-of-pocket costs and expenses (including the fees and expenses of their counsel) reasonably incurred by the Initial Purchasers in connection with this Agreement and the offering contemplated hereby.
11.
.  This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective successors and any controlling persons referred to herein, and the affiliates, officers and directors of each Initial Purchaser referred to in Section 7 hereof.  Nothing in this Agreement is intended or shall be construed to give any other person any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or in respect of this Agreement or any provision contained herein.  No purchaser of Securities from any Initial Purchaser shall be deemed to be a successor merely by reason of such purchase.
Persons Entitled to Benefit of Agreement
12.
.  The respective indemnities, rights of contribution, representations, warranties and agreements of the Company, the Guarantors and the Initial Purchasers contained in this Agreement or made by or on behalf of the Company, the Guarantors or the Initial Purchasers pursuant to this Agreement or any certificate delivered pursuant hereto shall survive the delivery of and payment for the Securities and shall remain in full force and effect, regardless of any termination of this Agreement or any investigation made by or on behalf of the Company, the Guarantors or the Initial Purchasers.
Survival
13.
.  For purposes of this Agreement, (a) except where otherwise expressly provided, the term "affiliate" has the meaning set forth in Rule 405 under the Securities Act; (b) the term "business day" means any day other than a day on which banks are permitted or required to be closed in New York City; (c) the term "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; (d) the term "subsidiary" has the meaning set forth in Rule 405 under the Securities Act; and (e) the term "written communication" has the meaning set forth in Rule 405 under the Securities Act.
Certain Defined Terms
14.
.  (a)    Any action by the Initial Purchasers hereunder may be taken by J.P. Morgan Securities LLC on behalf of the Initial Purchasers, and any such action taken by J.P. Morgan Securities LLC shall be binding upon the Initial Purchasers.  
Miscellaneous
Authority of the Representative.
(b)
 All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if mailed or transmitted and
Notices.
24
confirmed by any standard form of telecommunication.  Notices to the Initial Purchasers shall be given to the Representative c/o J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, 383 Madison Avenue  3 Floor, New York, New York 10179 (fax: (212)-834-6081); Attention: High Grade Syndicate Desk.  Notices to the Company and the Guarantors shall be given to them at Southwestern Energy Company, 2350 North Sam Houston Parkway East, Suite 125, Houston, Texas 77032, (fax:281-618-4820); Attention:  Greg D. Kerley, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
rd
(c)
 This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law.
(d)
 This Agreement may be signed in counterparts (which may include counterparts delivered by any standard form of telecommunication), each of which shall be an original and all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts.
(e)
 No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement, nor any consent or approval to any departure therefrom, shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be in writing and signed by the parties hereto.
Amendments or Waivers.
(f)
 The headings herein are included for convenience of reference only and are not intended to be part of, or to affect the meaning or interpretation of, this Agreement.
Headings.
25
If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding, please indicate your acceptance of this Agreement by signing in the space provided below.
Very truly yours,
SOUTHWESTERN ENERGY COMPANY
By
/s/ GREG D. KERLEY                                     
       Name: Greg D. Kerley
       Title: Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
SEECO, INC.
By
/s/ CRAIG OWEN                                             
      Name: Craig Owen
      Title: Controller and Chief Accounting Officer
SOUTHWESTERN ENERGY
   PRODUCTION  COMPANY
By
/s/ CRAIG OWEN                                             
      Name: Craig Owen
      Title: Controller and Chief Accounting Officer
SOUTHWESTERN ENERGY
   SERVICES COMPANY
By
/s/ CRAIG OWEN                                             
      Name: Craig Owen
      Title: Controller and Chief Accounting Officer
Accepted: February 29, 2012
J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES LLC
 For itself and on behalf of the
 several Initial Purchasers listed
 in Schedule 1 hereto.
By
/s/ ROBERT BOTTAMEDI                       
Authorized Signatory
ANNEX A
a.
Additional Time of Sale Information
1.
Term sheet containing the terms of the securities, substantially in the form of Annex B.
Annex A
ANNEX B
Annex B
(*) Note: A securities rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time.
Use of Proceeds
Changes to the first paragraph under Use of Proceeds as reflected on page 35 of the Preliminary Offering Memorandum dated February 29, 2012:
The net proceeds from the offering of the notes, which are expected to be approximately $991.0 million after the initial purchasers' discounts and estimated offering expenses, will be used to reduce outstanding indebtedness under our senior credit facility and any remaining net proceeds will be used for general corporate purposes, including for funding a portion of our 2012 capital program, for future capital investments and for general working capital. We intend to reborrow the amounts repaid under our senior credit facility to fund future capital expenditures and for general working capital purposes. As of February 27, 2012, we had approximately $726.1 million of borrowings under our senior credit facility. The interest rate was based on LIBOR (effective rate of 2.217% at February 27, 2012). Our senior credit facility matures on February 15, 2016.
Capitalization
Changes to the Capitalization as reflected on page 36 of the Preliminary Offering Memorandum dated February 29, 2012:
Annex B - 2
(1) As of February 27, 2012, we had $726.1 million outstanding under our senior credit facility.
Plan of Distribution
The following additional language will be added to Plan of Distribution:
Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria, S.A., one of the initial purchasers, is not a broker-dealer registered with the SEC and, therefore, intends to participate in the offering outside of the United States and, to the extent that the offering is within the United States, it will be facilitated by an affiliated U.S. registered broker-dealer, BBVA Securities Inc., as permitted under applicable law. Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria, S.A. will only make sales of notes in the United States, or to nationals or residents of the United States, through BBVA Securities, Inc.  To that end, Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria, S.A. and BBVA Securities Inc. have entered into an agreement pursuant to which BBVA Securities Inc. has referred this offering to Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria, S.A. and provides certain advisory and/or other services with respect to this offering.  In return for such referral and the provision of such services by BBVA Securities Inc., Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria, S.A. pay to BBVA Securities Inc. a mutually agreed-fee.
Annex B - 2
ANNEX C
In connection with offers and sales of Securities outside the United States:
(a)
Each Initial Purchaser acknowledges that the Securities have not been registered under the Securities Act and may not be offered or sold within the United States or to, or for the account or benefit of, U.S. persons except pursuant to an exemption from, or in transactions not subject to, the registration requirements of the Securities Act.
(b)
Each Initial Purchaser, severally and not jointly, represents, warrants and agrees that:
(i)
Such Initial Purchaser has offered and sold the Securities, and will offer and sell the Securities, (A) as part of their distribution at any time and (B) otherwise until 40 days after the later of the commencement of the offering of the Securities and the Closing Date, only in accordance with Regulation S under the Securities Act ("Regulation S") or Rule 144A or any other available exemption from registration under the Securities Act.
(ii)
None of such Initial Purchaser or any of its affiliates or any other person acting on its or their behalf has engaged or will engage in any directed selling efforts with respect to the Securities, and all such persons have complied and will comply with the offering restrictions requirement of Regulation S.
 
(iii)
At or prior to the confirmation of sale of any Securities sold in reliance on Regulation S, such Initial Purchaser will have sent to each distributor, dealer or other person receiving a selling concession, fee or other remuneration that purchase Securities from it during the distribution compliance period a confirmation or notice to substantially the following effect:
"The Securities covered hereby have not been registered under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and may not be offered or sold within the United States or to, or for the account or benefit of, U.S. persons (i) as part of their distribution at any time or (ii) otherwise until 40 days after the later of the commencement of the offering of the Securities and the date of original issuance of the Securities, except in accordance with Regulation S or Rule 144A or any other available exemption from registration under the Securities Act.  Terms used above have the meanings given to them by Regulation S."
(iv)
Such Initial Purchaser has not and will not enter into any contractual arrangement with any distributor with respect to the distribution of the
Annex C - 1
Securities, except with its affiliates or with the prior written consent of the Company.
Terms used in paragraph (a) and this paragraph (b) and not otherwise defined in this Agreement have the meanings given to them by Regulation S.
(c)
In relation to each Member State of the European Economic Area that has implemented the Prospectus Directive (each, a "Relevant Member State"), each Initial Purchaser has represented and agreed that with effect from and including the date on which the Prospectus Directive is implemented in that Relevant Member State (the "Relevant Implementation Date") it has not made and will not make an offer of notes to the public in that Relevant Member State prior to the publication of a prospectus in relation to the notes that has been approved by the competent authority in that Relevant Member State or, where appropriate, approved in another Relevant Member State and notified to the competent authority in that Relevant Member State, all in accordance with the Prospectus Directive, except that it may, with effect from and including the Relevant Implementation Date, make an offer of notes to the public in that Relevant Member State at any time:
l
to legal entities which are authorized or regulated to operate in the financial markets or, if not so authorized or regulated, whose corporate purpose is solely to invest in securities;
l
to any legal entity which has two or more of (1) an average of at least 250 employees during the last financial year; (2) a total balance sheet of more than 343,000,000 and (3) an annual net turnover of more than 350,000,000, as shown in its last annual or consolidated accounts; or
l
in any other circumstances which do not require the publication by us of a prospectus pursuant to Article 3 of the Prospectus Directive.
For the purposes of this provision, the expression an "offer of notes to the public" in relation to any notes in any Relevant Member State means the communication in any form and by any means of sufficient information on the terms of the offer and the notes to be offered so as to enable an investor to decide to purchase or subscribe the notes, as the same may be varied in that Member State by any measure implementing the Prospectus Directive in that Member State and the expression "Prospectus Directive" means Directive 2003/71/EC and includes any relevant implementing measure in each Relevant Member State.
(d)
Each Initial Purchaser, severally and not jointly, represents, warrants and agrees that:
(i)
it has only communicated or caused to be communicated and will only communicate or cause to be communicated any invitation or inducement to engage in investment activity (within the meaning of Section 21 of the United Kingdom Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (the "FSMA")) received by it in connection with the issue or sale of any Securities in circumstances in which
Annex C -2
Section 21(1) of the FSMA does not apply to the Company or the Guarantors; and
(ii)
it has complied and will comply with all applicable provisions of the FSMA with respect to anything done by it in relation to the Securities in, from or otherwise involving the United Kingdom.
(e)
Each initial purchaser has represented and agreed that it has not, directly or indirectly, offered or sold and will not, directly or indirectly, offer or sell in the Netherlands any notes with a denomination of less than 350,000 (or its other currency equivalent) other than to persons who trade or invest in securities in the conduct of a profession or business (which includes banks, stockbrokers, insurance companies, pension funds, other institutional investors and finance companies and treasury departments of large enterprises) unless one of the other exemptions from or exceptions to the prohibition contained in article 3 of the Dutch Securities Transactions Supervision Act 1995 ( 1995) is applicable and the conditions attached to such exemption or exception are complied with.
Wet toezicht effectenverkeer
(f)
Each Initial Purchaser acknowledges that no action has been or will be taken by the Company that would permit a public offering of the Securities, or possession or distribution of any of the Time of Sale Information, the Offering Memorandum, any Issuer Written Communication or any other offering or publicity material relating to the Securities, in any country or jurisdiction where action for that purpose is required.
Annex C -3
ANNEX D
J.P. Morgan Securities LLC
Citigroup Global Markets Inc.
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith
Incorporated
RBS Securities Inc.
Wells Fargo Securities, LLC
BMO Capital Markets Corp.
Goldman, Sachs & Co.
Mitsubishi UFJ Securities (USA), Inc.
Mizuho Securities USA Inc.
RBC Capital Markets, LLC
UBS Securities, LLC
Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria, S.A.
CIBC World Markets Corp.
Comerica Securities, Inc.
Fifth Third Securities, Inc.
KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc.
U.S. Bancorp Investments, Inc.
c/o J.P. Morgan Securities LLC
270 Park Avenue, Floor 5
New York, New York 10017
Ladies and Gentlemen:
This letter was prepared pursuant to the request of Southwestern Energy Company (the "Company") and is being delivered to you pursuant to Section 6(m) of the Purchase Agreement by and between you and the Company dated [], 2012 (the "Purchase Agreement").  We have prepared an audit of the Company's estimates of proved reserves attributable to the interests of the Company as of December 31, 2011 (the "Reserve Audit").  Part of the Reserve Audit is discussed and included in the preliminary offering memorandum dated [], 2012 and the offering memorandum dated [], 2012, including any documents incorporated by reference therein, (collectively, the "Offering Memorandum").  We have reviewed the sections of the Offering Memorandum where we or such Reserve Audit are referenced.
l
l
l
We are independent petroleum engineers with respect to the Company.  Our employment by the Company for work performed in connection with the Offering Memorandum and the Reserve Audit was not on a contingent basis.  At the time of preparation of our Reserve Audit we did not have, and at the date hereof we do not have, any financial interest in the Company.  We are not connected with the Company as a promoter, underwriter, voting trustee, director, officer, or employee.
The estimates of the proved reserves attributable to the interests of the Company, as of December 31, 2011, set forth in the Offering Memorandum correctly reflect the Company's estimates of these amounts as presented in the Reserve Audit.  These amounts were estimated in accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission guidelines applied on a consistent basis throughout the periods involved.
Annex D - 1
Since the date of the Reserve Audit, nothing has been brought to our attention by the Company that would lead us to believe that there has been a material decrease (5 percent or greater) in the Company's estimated reserves as presented in our Reserve Audit, except for reductions attributable to actual production.
This letter is solely for the information of the addressees and to assist the underwriters in conducting and documenting their investigation of the affairs of the Company in connection with the offering of the securities, and it is not to be used, circulated, quoted, or otherwise referred to within or without the underwriting group for any other purpose, including, but not limited to, the registration, purchase or sale of securities, nor is it to be filed with or referred to in whole or in part in any other document, except that reference may be made to it in the Purchase Agreement.
Very truly yours,
NETHERLAND, SEWELL & ASSOCIATES, INC.
[_]
[_]
 
Annex D - 2
Exhibit A
 
Exhibit A
 


