FILE:KLAC/KLAC-8K-20041018154058.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Table of Contents
Item 8.01 Other Events.
     Attached as an exhibit hereto is the form of option agreement used by KLA-Tencor Corporation (the "Company") when granting options pursuant to its 1998 Outside Director Option Plan (the "Plan"). The Board of Directors of the Company has determined that outside directors receiving option grants under the Plan will continue to receive an aggregate of 10,000 shares per year, but these grants will be made quarterly in four equal installments rather than in a single annual grant.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     
(c) Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: October 18, 2004
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 10.1
[KLA-Tencor Letterhead]
Option Grant
We are pleased to inform you that in accordance with the terms of the "1998 Outside Director Option Plan" you have been granted Non-Qualified Stock Option, number XXXXXX, in the amount of 2,500 shares of KLA-Tencor Corporation common stock at $XX.XX per share. The date of grant of the option is [    ].
100% of the shares under this option are fully vested and are exercisable on [    ].
The option will expire on [    ]. Any vested options not exercised on or prior to the expiration date shall expire and may not be exercised. These options will remain exercisable for 30 days from the date you terminate as a Board Member of the company. The grant of the Option and the issuance of Shares upon exercise of the Option are subject to compliance with all of the applicable requirements of all federal, state, local, or other laws or regulations with respect to such options.
For the other terms and conditions relating to your stock option, please see the 1998 Outside Director Option Plan Document as previously furnished.
Your Option may not be amended orally. It can only be amended by means of a written or electronically transmitted agreement between you and the company. Questions should be directed to Tracy Laboy at (408) 875-7131
THIS MEMO IS YOUR OFFICIAL NOTIFICATION OF THIS STOCK GRANT. NO ADDITIONAL DOCUMENTATION WILL BE SENT TO YOU CONCERNING THIS GRANT.


