FILE:KLAC/KLAC-8K-20050929172752.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
Attached is the form of Option Grant Notification used by KLA-Tencor Corporation for grants made under the 2004 Equity Incentive Plan.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
     
(c) Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:
September 29, 2005
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 10.01
Option Grant Notification
 
Congratulations! We are pleased to inform you that the Board of Directors has granted to you a Non-Qualified Stock Option Number [NUM] for [SHARES_GRANTED] shares of KLA-Tencor Corporation common stock at per share pursuant to the terms of the 2004 Equity Incentive Plan. The date of grant of the option is
$[insert price on date of grant]
[insert grant date].
Shares under this option become exercisable based upon your continuous full-time service as follows: [insert vesting schedule, as determined at date of grant] The option will be fully vested [insert complete vest date] from subject to your continued full-time service.
[insert grant date]
The vesting under this option for current or future continuous part-time service follows the schedule above and is pro rated based on your regular approved schedule of record, as follows:
Should you go on a leave of absence, your vesting will cease on the 1st day of your leave (unless otherwise required by law or as determined in writing by the Plan Administrator, in its sole discretion) and will recommence upon your return to work. Vesting will also cease on your termination of employment for any reason, including pursuant to a reduction-in-force.
The option will expire on . Any unvested options due to either part-time status or leave of absence and/or vested options not exercised on or prior to the expiration date shall expire. Vested options may be exercised up to 3 months after terminating employment with KLA-Tencor. After that date, all options will be cancelled.
[insert date determined by the Plan Administrator]
The grant of an Option and the issuance of Shares upon exercise of the Option are subject to compliance with all of the applicable requirements of all laws or regulations with respect to such options. Neither the grant of this Option nor the vesting schedule alter the terms of your employment, which remain at-will and subject to termination by KLA-Tencor or you at any time, with or without cause or notice.
For the other terms and conditions relating to your stock option, please see the 2004 Equity Incentive Plan on the Employee Stock Services Web-site. Both of these can be accessed through the KLA-Tencor Intranet site:
http://ktwebdev.kla-tencor.com/treasury/kla_web/sop_features.html
Questions should be directed to Employee Stock Services Hotline, x57150 or via e-mail at
401k.stock@kla-tencor.com.
THIS MEMO IS YOUR OFFICIAL NOTIFICATION OF THIS STOCK GRANT. NO ADDITIONAL DOCUMENTATION WILL BE SENT TO YOU CONCERNING THIS GRANT.


