FILE:KLAC/KLAC-8K-20060126163137.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On January 26, 2006, KLA-Tencor Corporation issued a press release regarding its financial results for the quarter ended December 31, 2005. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.
     The information in this Form 8-K and the exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (c) Exhibits.
-2-
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
-3-
 
INDEX TO EXHIBITS
-4-

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
SAN JOSE, Calif., Jan. 26, 2006KLA-Tencor Corporation (NASDAQ: KLAC) today announced operating results for its second quarter of fiscal 2006, ended December 31, 2005. The company reported net income of $77 million and earnings per diluted share of $0.38 on revenues of $488 million compared to net income of $77 million or $0.38 per diluted share on revenue of $484 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2006, and net income of $122 million or $0.61 per diluted share on revenue of $533 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2005. The results for the fiscal 2006 quarters include the impact from adoption of SFAS 123 (R) "Stock Based Compensation". The company recorded after-tax equity-based compensation expenses of $25 million during the second quarter of fiscal 2006 and $24 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2006, in its costs and operating expenses. Excluding the impact of equity-based compensation, net income would have been $102 million or $0.50 per diluted share in the second quarter of fiscal 2006 and $101 million or $0.50 per diluted share for the first quarter of fiscal 2006.
"We continue to work closely with our customers to help them maximize their yield faster in the face of formidable technology and economic challenges," stated Rick Wallace, chief executive officer of KLA-Tencor. "Demand for our solutions remains strong as semiconductor manufacturers count on us as a trusted partner that can help them realize greater profitability through faster product introduction cycles, accelerated transistor innovation and enhanced manufacturing efficiency."
KLA-Tencor reported ending the quarter with approximately nine months of product-related shipment and revenue backlog. On a geographic basis, Korea, China and Singapore were 32 percent of orders, above
 
their combined historical average of 20 percent; Japan was 21 percent of orders, higher than its historical average of 20 percent; Taiwan was 18 percent of orders, lower than its historical average of 20 percent; U.S. was 17 percent of orders, lower than its historical average of 25 percent; and Europe was 12 percent of orders, lower than its historical average of 15 percent.
KLA-Tencor's financial position remained strong with cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities of $2.2 billion and no long term debt. Inventory increased by $16 million to $412 million compared to the prior quarter as a result of higher build plans to support increased customer demand. Accounts receivable increased by $65 million to $372 million compared to the prior quarter as a result of higher revenue in Japan.
Statements in this press release regarding the benefit to customers of KLA-Tencor's products, demand for KLA-Tencor's products and its future financial performance are forward-looking statements, and are subject to the Safe Harbor provisions created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on current information and expectations, and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those projected in such statements due to various factors, including but not limited to: the demand for semiconductors and new and enhanced product offerings by competitors, cancellation of orders by customers and changing customer demands. For other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, please refer to the company's Form 10-K, Forms 10-Q and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in forward-looking statements in this release as a result of certain factors, including those set forth in the risk factors described in the company's SEC filings.
Forward Looking Statements:
For comparison purposes, the company makes reference to certain net income and earnings per share results that were consistent with GAAP when presented in prior quarters, but are now inconsistent with GAAP due to changes in accounting standards. These results were reached by excluding non-cash, equity-based compensation expenses. We reference those results to allow a better comparison of results in the current period to those in prior periods. Our reference to these results from prior periods should be considered in addition to results that are prepared under current accounting standards but should not be considered a substitute for results that are presented as consistent with GAAP.
KLA-Tencor is the world leader in yield management and process control solutions for semiconductor manufacturing and related industries. Headquartered in San Jose, Calif., the company has sales and service offices around the world. An S&P 500 company, KLA-Tencor was named one of the Best Managed Companies in America for 2005 by and is the only company in the semiconductor industry to receive the accolade for this year. KLA-Tencor is traded on the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol KLAC. Additional information about the company is available on the Internet at
About KLA-Tencor:
Forbes Magazine
http://www.kla-tencor.com
 
KLA-Tencor Corporation
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED UNAUDITED BALANCE SHEETS
 
KLA-Tencor Corporation
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED UNAUDITED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
*includes the following amounts related to equity awards (in thousands):


