FILE:KLAC/KLAC-8K-20060427165247.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On April 27, 2006, KLA-Tencor Corporation issued a press release regarding its financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2006. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
To supplement KLA-Tencor Corporation's consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with GAAP, KLA-Tencor Corporation uses non-GAAP measures of certain components of financial performance, including net income and earnings per diluted share, which are adjusted from results based on GAAP to exclude certain expenses and charges. The presentation of non-GAAP financial results is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for, or superior to, GAAP results. Investors should be aware that non-GAAP measures have inherent material limitations as an analytical tool and should be read only in conjunction with the Company's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. These non-GAAP financial measures may also be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. These non-GAAP adjustments are provided to enhance the user's overall understanding of KLA-Tencor Corporation's current financial performance and its prospects for the future. Further, these non-GAAP results are one of the primary indicators management uses for planning and forecasting in future periods. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
The information in this Form 8-K and the exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (c) Exhibits.
-2-
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
-3-
 
INDEX TO EXHIBITS
-4-

 
Exhibit 99.1
News Release
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
SAN JOSE, Calif., April 27, 2006KLA-Tencor Corporation (NASDAQ: KLAC) today announced operating results for its third quarter of fiscal 2006, ended March 31, 2006. The company reported net income of $98 million and earnings per diluted share of $0.48 on revenues of $518 million compared to net income of $77 million or $0.38 per diluted share on revenue of $488 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2006, and net income of $123 million or $0.61 per diluted share on revenue of $542 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2005. The results for the fiscal 2006 quarters include the impact from adoption of SFAS 123 (R) "Stock Based Compensation". The company recorded after tax equity based compensation expenses of $31 million during the third quarter of fiscal 2006 and $25 million during the second quarter of fiscal 2006, in its costs and operating expenses. Excluding the impact of equity based compensation, net income would have been $129 million or $0.63 per diluted share for the third quarter of fiscal 2006 and $102 million or $0.50 per diluted share in the second quarter of fiscal 2006.
"We had a quarter of strong financial results, as semiconductor manufacturers continue to make investments in our leading-edge process control solutions in order to reduce the time and costs associated with producing next-generation devices," stated Rick Wallace, chief executive officer of KLA-Tencor. "We remain focused on investing in the solutions our customers will need in order to remain competitive as next-generation applications enter production."
KLA-Tencor reported ending the quarter with approximately nine months of product-related shipment and revenue backlog. On a geographic basis, U.S. was 33 percent of orders, higher than its historical average of 25 percent; Japan was 26 percent of orders, higher than its historical average of 20 percent; Taiwan was 14 percent of orders, lower than its historical average of 20 percent; Korea, China and Singapore were 16 percent of orders, below their combined historical average of 20 percent; and Europe was 11 percent of orders, lower than its historical average of 15 percent.
 
KLA-Tencor's financial position remained strong with cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities of $2.3 billion and no long term debt. Inventory increased by $27 million compared to the prior quarter to $438 million as build plans ramp to meet increased customer demand. Accounts receivable increased by $84 million compared to the prior quarter to $456 million on higher shipments.
Statements in this press release regarding the benefit to customers of KLA-Tencor's products, demand for KLA-Tencor's products and its future financial performance are forward-looking statements, and are subject to the Safe Harbor provisions created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on current information and expectations, and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those projected in such statements due to various factors, including but not limited to: the demand for semiconductors and new and enhanced product offerings by competitors, cancellation of orders by customers and changing customer demands. For other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, please refer to the company's Form 10-K, Forms 10-Q and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in forward-looking statements in this release as a result of certain factors, including those set forth in the risk factors described in the company's SEC filings.
Forward Looking Statements:
For comparison purposes, the company makes reference to certain net income and earnings per share results that were consistent with GAAP when presented in prior quarters, but are now inconsistent with GAAP due to changes in accounting standards. These results were reached by excluding non-cash, equity-based compensation expenses. We reference those results to allow a better comparison of results in the current period to those in prior periods. Our reference to these results from prior periods should be considered in addition to results that are prepared under current accounting standards but should not be considered a substitute for results that are presented as consistent with GAAP.
KLA-Tencor is the world leader in yield management and process control solutions for semiconductor manufacturing and related industries. Headquartered in San Jose, Calif., the company has sales and service offices around the world. An S&P 500 company, KLA-Tencor was named one of the Best Managed Companies in America for 2005 by and is the only company in the semiconductor industry to receive the accolade for this year. KLA-Tencor is traded on the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol KLAC. Additional information about the company is available on the Internet at
About KLA-Tencor:
Forbes Magazine
http://www.kla-tencor.com
 
KLA-Tencor Corporation CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED UNAUDITED BALANCE SHEETS
 
KLA-Tencor Corporation CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED UNAUDITED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
*includes the following amounts related to equity awards


