FILE:KLAC/KLAC-8K-20060511170040.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors; Election of Directors
     On May 11, 2006, Mr. Michael E. Marks resigned from the Board of Directors of KLA-Tencor Corporation. Upon recommendation of the Nominating and Governance Committee, the Board of Directors appointed Mr. David C. Wang to fill the vacancy left by the resignation of Mr. Marks.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     
(c) Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: May 11, 2006
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
SAN JOSE, Calif., May. 11, 2006KLA-Tencor Corp. (NASDAQ: KLAC) today announced the appointment of David C. Wang to its board of directors. Wang was elected to the board on May 11, 2006 and will fill the vacancy created by the resignation of Michael Marks.
"We are fortunate to add an experienced director to fill the vacancy on KLA-Tencor's board," said Kenneth Levy, chairman of KLA-Tencor. "David C. Wang brings a wealth of experience in global markets to KLA-Tencor."
Wang has served as president, China for Boeing since 2002. Prior to joining Boeing, he spent 22 years at GE where he worked in various capacities, including most recently as chairman and CEO of GE China. In addition, Wang served in executive positions in Singapore, Malaysia and Mexico. Wang is also a director of Linktone, Ltd.
Levy stated that Michael Marks made significant contributions to the success of KLA-Tencor during his tenure as a director. "His insights have benefited KLA-Tencor during his tenure on the board and he will be missed."
KLA-Tencor is the world leader in yield management and process control solutions for semiconductor manufacturing and related industries. Headquartered in San Jose, Calif., the company has sales and service offices around the world. An S&P 500 company, KLA-Tencor is traded on the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol KLAC. Additional information about the company is available on the Internet at
About KLA-Tencor:
http://www.kla-tencor.com


