FILE:KLAC/KLAC-8K-20070426164013.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
On April 26, 2007, KLA-Tencor Corporation, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release regarding selected financial results for its third quarter of fiscal 2007, ended March 31, 2007. The Company also announced in the press release that it will hold a conference call (with a web cast at www.kla-tencor.com) at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Daylight Time regarding its third quarter results and its outlook for the fourth quarter. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.
The information in this Form 8-K shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended ("Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
KLA-TENCOR REPORTS OF FISCAL 2007 THIRD QUARTER RESULTS
Revenue of $716 million and EPS of $0.76
SAN JOSE, Calif., April 26, 2007KLA-Tencor Corporation (NASDAQ: KLAC) today announced operating results for its third quarter of fiscal 2007, which ended on March 31, 2007. The Company reported GAAP net income of $155 million, which included share-based compensation and other charges discussed below, and GAAP earnings per diluted share of $0.76 on revenue of $716 million in the third quarter, compared to GAAP net income of $90 million or $0.44 per diluted share on revenue of $649 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2007, and GAAP net income of $97 million or $0.47 per diluted share on revenue of $520 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2006.
Net income for the third quarter of fiscal 2007 reflects $62 million in pre-tax charges, as follows:
 
 
 
"KLA-Tencor's solid financial performance this quarter reflects our focus on enabling our customers to meet their technical and economic challenges with our inspection and metrology solutions," said Rick Wallace, Chief Executive Officer of KLA-Tencor. "I thank our employees for their unwavering commitment to operational excellence, customer satisfaction and profitable growth."
KLA-Tencor ended the third quarter of fiscal 2007 with approximately eight months of product-related shipment and revenue backlog. The geographic breakdown of orders in the quarter was:
Cash and investments ended the quarter at $1.6 billion compared to $2.1 billion at the end of previous quarter as a result of a pre-payment of $750 million on an accelerated stock repurchase program.
KLA-Tencor will discuss its fiscal 2007 third quarter results, along with its outlook for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, on a conference call today beginning at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Daylight Time. A webcast of the call will be available at: www.kla-tencor.com.
Statements in this press release other than historical facts, such as statements regarding the benefit to customers of KLA-Tencor's products, demand for KLA-Tencor's products and the Company's future financial performance, are forward-looking statements, and are subject to the Safe Harbor provisions created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on current information and expectations, and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those projected in such statements due to various factors, including but not limited to: our ability to successfully address and resolve all issues arising from the discovery that we had retroactively priced stock options (primarily from July 1, 1997 to June 30, 2002) and had not accounted for them correctly; the demand for semiconductors; new and enhanced product offerings by competitors; cancellation of orders by customers; and changing customer demands. For other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected and anticipated in forward-looking statements in this release, please refer to the Company's Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (including, but not limited to, the risk factors described therein).
Forward Looking Statements:
KLA-Tencor is the world leader in yield management and process control solutions for semiconductor manufacturing and related industries. Headquartered in San Jose, Calif., the Company has sales and service offices around the world. An S&P 500 Company, KLA-Tencor is traded on the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol KLAC. Additional information about the Company is available on the Internet at
About KLA-Tencor:
http://www.kla-tencor.com
 
 


