FILE:KLAC/KLAC-8K-20071113163913.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
(b) Effective November 9, 2007, as previously disclosed in the Proxy Statement filed by KLA-Tencor Corporation (the "Company") with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on October 11, 2007, Jorge L. Titinger, the Company's former Senior Vice President, Global Operations and Corporate Support Groups, ceased to be an employee of the Company. In connection with his cessation of employment, certain of his outstanding stock options to acquire shares of the Company's common stock were amended in the manner discussed below.
(e) As previously disclosed, the Company has undergone an examination of its historical stock option practices by the Special Committee of the Company's Board of Directors and, as a result, discovered that certain of the Company's stock options, primarily those granted from July 1, 1997 to June 30, 2002, had been retroactively priced for all employees who received those grants. This means that the option exercise price was not the market price of the option shares on the actual grant date of the option, but instead was set at a lower market price on an earlier date. These retroactively priced options, to the extent they were not vested as of December 31, 2004, are likely to be subject to adverse taxation under Internal Revenue Code Section 409A unless the exercise price is increased to the lower of (i) the fair market value per share of the Company's common stock on the actual grant date or (ii) the fair market value per share of the Company's common stock on the date the Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors approved the increased exercise price. Jeffrey L. Hall and Mr. Titinger each currently hold retroactively priced options which were granted to them prior to their becoming executive officers of the Company. However, each of them was such an executive officer at the time the Company commenced the offer to its employees to amend or replace certain retroactively priced stock options in its Schedule TO filed with the SEC on February 27, 2007 (the "409A Tender Offer"). As a result, they were not eligible to participate in the 409A Tender Offer, and the requisite changes under Section 409A to their stock options must be effected by December 31, 2007.
Accordingly, on November 6, 2007, the Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors approved a Stock Option Amendment and Special Bonus Agreement (an "Agreement") with each of Messrs. Hall and Titinger, in substantially the form of the agreement attached as Exhibit 99.1. The terms of the Agreements, which were both executed on November 8, 2007, are the same as those in effect for the Company's employees who participated in the 409A Tender Offer and increased the exercise prices of their Section 409A-covered options in accordance with the formula described above.
Mr. Hall, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, is currently an executive officer of the Company. Mr. Titinger does not have executive officer status at present. The specific increases to the retroactively priced options held by Messrs. Hall and Titinger pursuant to the Agreements are summarized as follows:
 
Except for the increases to the exercise prices per share for the options described above, no other terms or provisions of the original option agreements for those options have been modified.
As part of their Agreements, Messrs. Hall and Titinger will each receive a special cash bonus from the Company equal to the aggregate increase in the exercise prices for their Section 409A-covered options, as that aggregate increase is indicated above for each of them. The payment will be made in January 2008, subject to the Company's collection of all applicable withholding taxes.
 
On November 7, 2007, the Company's Board of Directors adopted resolutions amending and restating the Bylaws of the Company, effective immediately. In addition to various typographical corrections and chronological updates, substantive amendments were made to the following provisions: (a) Article I, Sections 3 and 8; Article II, Sections 5 and 8; Article III, Section 2; and Article VI, Sections 1 and 2 were each amended to make clear that various actions may be taken via electronic transmission (such as electronic mail) and to provide the procedural requirements applicable to actions so taken; (b) Article IV, Sections 1, 5 and 9 were amended to clarify the process for appointing and removing certain officers of the Company and to eliminate Board service requirements for any corporate officers; (c) Article IV, Sections 2, 3 and 4 were amended to clarify the duties of certain officers of the Company; and (d) Article V, Sections 1 and 2 were amended to specify the Company's ability to issue uncertificated shares.
 
On November 8, 2007, the Company issued a news release that the Company's Board of Directors had declared a cash dividend of $0.15 per share on its common stock. Such dividend shall be payable on December 3, 2007 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on November 19, 2007.
 
 
The following exhibits are filed herewith:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
Section 1. . An annual meeting of the stockholders, for the election of directors to succeed those whose terms expire and for the transaction of such other business as may properly come before the meeting, shall be held at such place, on such date, and at such time as the Board of Directors shall each year fix, which date shall be within thirteen months subsequent to the last annual meeting of stockholders.
Annual Meeting
Section 2. . Special meetings of the stockholders, for any purpose or purposes prescribed in the notice of the meeting, may be called only by the Board of Directors and shall be held at such place, on such date, and at such time as they shall fix. Business transacted at special meetings shall be confined to the purpose or purposes stated in the notice.
Special Meetings
Section 3. . Written notice of the place, date, and time of all meetings of the stockholders shall be given, not less than ten (10) nor more than sixty (60) days before the date of such meeting, to each stockholder entitled to vote at such meeting, except as otherwise provided herein or required by law (meaning, here and hereinafter, as required from time to time by the Delaware General Corporation Law or the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation). Notice of any meeting of stockholders will be given either personally, by mail, express mail, courier service or, with the actual or constructive consent of the stockholder entitled to receive such notice, by electronic transmission (including facsimile or electronic mail). Notice given by electronic transmission pursuant to this subsection will be deemed given: (a) if by facsimile telecommunication, when directed to a facsimile telecommunication number at which the stockholder has actually or constructively consented to receive notice; (b) if by electronic mail, when directed to an electronic mail address at which the stockholder has actually or constructively consented to receive notice; (c) if by posting on an electronic network together with separate notice to the stockholder of such specific posting, upon the later of (A) such posting and (B) the giving of such separate notice, and (d) if by any other form of electronic transmission, when directed to the stockholder.
Notice of Meetings
When a meeting is adjourned to another place, date or time, written notice need not be given of the adjourned meeting if the place, date and time thereof are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken; provided, however, that if the date of any adjourned meeting is more than thirty (30) days after the date for which the meeting
 
Bylaws - November 7, 2007
was originally noticed, or if a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, written notice of the place, date, and time of the adjourned meeting shall be given in conformity herewith. At any adjourned meeting, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the original meeting.
Section 4. . At any meeting of the stockholders, the holders of a majority of all of the shares of the stock entitled to vote at the meeting, present in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum for all purposes, unless or except to the extent that the presence of a larger number may be required by law.
Quorum
If a quorum shall fail to attend any meeting, the chairman of the meeting or the holders of a majority of the shares of stock entitled to vote who are present, in person or by proxy, may adjourn the meeting to another place, date or time.
If a notice of any adjourned special meeting of stockholders is sent to all stockholders entitled to vote thereat, stating that it will be held with those present constituting a quorum, then, provided that those present hold more than 33-1/3% of the shares entitled to vote, those present at such adjourned meeting shall constitute a quorum, and all matters shall be determined by a majority of the votes cast at such meeting.
Section 5. . At every meeting of the stockholders, the Chairman of the Board of the Corporation, or in his absence the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation, or in his absence the President of the Corporation, or in his absence the Vice President designated by the Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer, or in the absence of such designation any Vice President, or in the absence of the Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, President or any Vice President a chairman chosen by the majority of the voting shares represented in person or by proxy, shall act as chairman of the meeting. The Secretary of the Corporation or a person designated by the chairman shall act as Secretary of the meeting. Unless otherwise approved by the chairman, attendance at the Stockholders' Meeting shall be restricted to stockholders of record, persons authorized in accordance with Section 8 of these By-Laws to act by proxy, and officers of the Corporation.
Conduct of the Stockholders' Meeting
Section 6. . The Chairman shall call the meeting to order, establish the agenda, and conduct the business of the meeting in accordance herewith or, at the Chairman's discretion, in accordance with the wishes of the stockholders in attendance.
Conduct of Business
The Chairman shall also conduct the meeting in an orderly manner, rule on the precedence of, and procedure on, motions and other procedural matters, and exercise discretion with respect to such procedural matters with fairness and good faith toward all those entitled to take part. The Chairman may impose reasonable limits on the amount of time taken up at the meeting on discussion in general or on remarks by any one
 
Bylaws - November 7, 2007
stockholder. Should any person in attendance become unruly or obstruct the meeting proceedings, the Chairman shall have the power to have such person removed from participation. Notwithstanding anything in these By-Laws to the contrary, no business shall be conducted at any meeting except in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 6, Section 7 below and Section 11 of Article II below. The Chairman of any meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that business was not properly brought before the meeting and in accordance with the provisions of this Section 6, Section 7 below and Section 11 of Article II below, and if he should so determine, he shall so declare to the meeting and any such business not properly brought before the meeting shall not be transacted.
Section 7. . At an annual or special meeting of the stockholders, only such business shall be conducted as shall have been properly brought before the meeting. To be properly brought before a meeting, business must be (a) specified in the notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, (b) properly brought before the meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, (c) if at an annual meeting, properly brought before the meeting by a stockholder, or (d) if at a special meeting, if, and only if, the notice of a special meeting provides for business to be brought before the meeting by stockholders, properly brought before the meeting by a stockholder.
Notice of Stockholder Business
For business to be properly brought before a meeting by a stockholder, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation. To be timely, a stockholder's notice must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation no later than the date upon which stockholder proposals to be included in the Corporation's Proxy Statement must be received by the Corporation under the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules promulgated thereunder.
A stockholder's notice to the Secretary shall set forth as to each matter the stockholder proposes to bring before the annual or special meeting (a) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the annual or special meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the annual or special meeting, (b) the name and address, as they appear on the Corporation's books, of the stockholder proposing such business, (c) the class and number of shares of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by the stockholder, (d) any material interest of the stockholder in such business and (e) such other information relating to the stockholder or the proposal as is required to be disclosed under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission governing the solicitation of proxies with respect to such proposal, whether or not such proxies are in fact solicited by the stockholder.
Notwithstanding anything in these By-Laws to the contrary, no business shall be conducted at an annual or special meeting except in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 7. The chairman of the meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine
 
Bylaws - November 7, 2007
and declare to the meeting that business was not properly brought before the meeting and in accordance with the provisions of this Section 7, and if he should so determine, he shall so declare to the meeting and any such business not properly brought before the meeting shall not be transacted.
Section 8. . Each stockholder entitled to vote at a meeting of stockholders or to express consent or dissent to corporate action in writing without a meeting may authorize another person or persons to act for him by a written or electronic proxy, filed in accordance with the procedure established for meeting or taking of action in writing, but no such proxy shall be voted or acted upon after three (3) years from its date, unless the proxy provides for a longer period. Any copy, facsimile telecommunication or other reliable reproduction of the writing or transmission created pursuant to this Section 8 may be substituted or used in lieu of the original writing or transmission for any and all purposes for which the original writing or transmission could be used, provided that such copy, facsimile telecommunication or other reproduction shall be a complete reproduction of the entire original writing or transmission. An electronic proxy (which may be transmitted via telephone, e-mail, the Internet or such other electronic means as the Board of Directors may determine from time to time) shall be deemed executed if the Company receives an appropriate electronic transmission from the stockholder or the stockholder's attorney-in-fact along with a pass code or other identifier which reasonably establishes the stockholder or the stockholder's attorney-in-fact as the sender of such transmission. The revocability of a proxy that states on its face that it is irrevocable shall be governed by the provisions of Section 212(c) of the General Corporation Law of Delaware.
Proxies and Voting
Each stockholder shall have one vote for every share of stock entitled to vote which is registered in his or her name on the record date for the meeting, except as otherwise provided herein or required by law.
All voting, including on the election of directors but excepting where otherwise required by law, may be by a voice vote; provided, however, that upon demand therefor by a stockholder entitled to vote or his or her proxy, a stock vote shall be taken. Every stock vote shall be taken by ballots, each of which shall state the name of the stockholder or proxy voting and such other information as may be required under the procedure established for the meeting. Every vote taken by ballots shall be counted by an inspector or inspectors appointed by the chairman of the meeting.
All elections shall be determined by a plurality of the votes cast, and, except as otherwise required by law or these By-Laws, all other matters shall be determined by a majority of the votes cast.
Section 9. . A complete list of stockholders entitled to vote at any meeting of stockholders, arranged in alphabetical order for each class of stock and showing the address of each such stockholder and the number of shares registered in his
Stock List
 
Bylaws - November 7, 2007
or her name, shall be open to the examination of any such stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, during ordinary business hours for a period of at least ten (10) days prior to the meeting, either at a place within the city where the meeting is to be held, which place shall be specified in the notice of the meeting, or if not so specified, at the place where the meeting is to be held.
The stock list shall also be kept at the place of the meeting during the whole time thereof and shall be open to the examination of any such stockholder who is present. This list shall presumptively determine the identity of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting and the number of shares held by each of them.
Section 10. . Any action required or permitted to be taken by the stockholders of the Corporation must be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation and may not be effected by any consent in writing by such stockholders.
Elimination of Written Consent
Section 1. . The number of directors shall initially, as of the date of these Amended and Restated By-Laws, be ten (10) and, thereafter, shall be fixed from time to time exclusively by the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the total number of authorized directors (whether or not there exists any vacancies in previously authorized directorships at the time any such resolution is presented to the Board for adoption). The directors shall be divided into three classes, as nearly equal in number as reasonably possible. As of the date of these Amended and Restated By-Laws, the current term of office of the first class is scheduled to expire at the 2008 annual meeting of stockholders, the current term of office of the second class is scheduled to expire at the 2009 annual meeting of stockholders and the current term of office of the third class is scheduled to expire at the November 2007 annual meeting of stockholders. At each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders, directors shall be elected to succeed those directors whose terms expire for a term of office to expire at the third succeeding annual meeting of stockholders after their election. All directors shall hold office until the expiration of the term for which elected and until their successors are elected, except in the case of the death, resignation or removal of any director.
Number and Term of Office
Section 2. . Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock then outstanding, newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors or any vacancies in the Board of Directors resulting from death, resignation, retirement, disqualification or other cause (other than removal from office by a vote of stockholders) may be filled only by a majority vote of the directors then in office, though less than a quorum, and directors so chosen shall hold office for a term expiring at the annual
Vacancies and Newly Created Directorships
 
Bylaws - November 7, 2007
meeting of stockholders at which the term of office of the class to which they have been elected expires. No decrease in the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors shall shorten the term of any incumbent director.
Section 3. . Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock then outstanding, any directors, or the entire Board of Directors, may be removed from office at any time, but only for cause and only by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the voting power of all of the then-outstanding shares of capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class. Vacancies in the Board of Directors resulting from such removal may be filled by (i) a majority of the directors then in office, though less than a quorum, or (ii) the stockholders at a special meeting of the stockholders properly called for that purpose, by the vote of the holders of a majority of the shares entitled to vote at such special meeting. Directors so chosen shall hold office for a term expiring at the annual meeting of stockholders at which the term of office of the class to which they have been elected expires.
Removal
Section 4. . Regular meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held at such place or places, on such date or dates, and at such time or times as shall have been established by the Board of Directors and publicized among all directors. A notice of each regular meeting shall not be required.
Regular Meetings
Section 5. . Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called by one-third of the directors then in office (rounded up to the nearest whole number), the Chairman of the Board or by the chief executive officer and shall be held at such place, on such date, and at such time as they or he shall fix. Notice of the place, date, and time of each such special meeting shall be given each director by whom it is not waived by mailing written notice not fewer than five (5) days before the meeting or by giving such notice by telephone, electronic transmission, telecopy or delivery by overnight courier service not fewer than twenty-four (24) hours before the meeting. Unless otherwise indicated in the notice thereof, any and all business may be transacted at a special meeting.
Special Meetings
Section 6. . At any meeting of the Board of Directors, a majority of the total number of authorized Directors shall constitute a quorum for all purposes. If a quorum shall fail to attend any meeting, a majority of those present may adjourn the meeting to another place, date, or time, without further notice or waiver thereof.
Quorum
Section 7. . Members of the Board of Directors, or of any committee thereof, may participate in a meeting of such Board or committee by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other and such participation shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
Participation in Meetings by Conference Telephone
 
Bylaws - November 7, 2007
Section 8. . At any meeting of the Board of Directors, business shall be transacted in such order and manner as the Board may from time to time determine, and all matters shall be determined by the vote of a majority of the directors present, except as otherwise provided herein or required by law. Action may be taken by the Board of Directors without a meeting if all members thereof consent thereto in writing or by electronic transmission, and the writing or writings or electronic transmission or transmissions are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board of Directors.
Conduct of Business
Section 9. . The Board of Directors may, except as otherwise required by law, exercise all such powers and do all such acts and things as may be exercised or done by the Corporation, including, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the unqualified power:
Powers
(1) To declare dividends from time to time in accordance with law;
(2) To purchase or otherwise acquire any property, rights or privileges on such terms as it shall determine;
(3) To authorize the creation, making and issuance, in such form as it may determine, of written obligations of every kind, negotiable or non-negotiable, secured or unsecured, and to do all things necessary in connection therewith;
(4) To remove any officer of the Corporation with or without cause, and from time to time to devolve the powers and duties of any officer upon any other person for the time being;
(5) To confer upon any officer of the Corporation the power to appoint, remove and suspend subordinate officers, employees and agents;
(6) To adopt from time to time such stock, option, stock purchase, bonus or other compensation plans for directors, officers, employees and agents of the Corporation and its subsidiaries as it may determine;
(7) To adopt from time to time such insurance, retirement, and other benefit plans for directors, officers, employees and agents of the Corporation and its subsidiaries as it may determine; and
(8) To adopt from time to time regulations, not inconsistent with these By-Laws, for the management of the Corporation's business and affairs.
Section 10. . Directors, as such, may receive, pursuant to resolution of the Board of Directors, fixed fees and other compensation for their services as directors, including, without limitation, their services as members of committees of the Board of Directors.
Compensation of Directors
 
Bylaws - November 7, 2007
Section 11. . Subject to the rights of holders of any class or series of Preferred Stock then outstanding, nominations for the election of directors may be made by the Board of Directors or any nominating or proxy committee appointed by the Board of Directors or by any stockholder entitled to vote in the election of Directors generally who complies with the notice and procedural requirements of this Section 11. All nominees for election to the Board shall satisfy the qualification requirements for membership on the Board of Directors of the Corporation established by any nominating committee designated by the Board, which requirements shall be designed to evaluate, without limitation, the following:
Nomination of Director Candidates
(a) The applicability of the Candidate's business experience and knowledge to the Corporation's business, including any technical skills, industry contacts or other special qualifications which would make the Candidate a valuable member of the Board.
(b) The resulting balance of knowledge and experience which would exist on the Board if the Candidate were elected in light of the business experience and knowledge of the other persons likely to be elected to the Board.
(c) The Candidate's other business interests and commitments and the extent to which such interests and commitments are inconsistent or incompatible with such Candidate's effective board membership, including the extent to which the nominating committee believes that such Candidate's membership on the Board may be detrimental to the long-term interests of the Corporation and to the maximization of the value of the Corporation's stockholders' investment in the Corporation.
In addition to any other applicable requirements, any such stockholder nomination shall be made only pursuant to timely notice in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation setting forth such stockholder's intent to make a nomination or nominations. To be timely, a stockholder's notice must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal offices of the Corporation not later than the date on which stockholder proposals to be included in the proxy statement with respect to any annual or special meeting must be received by the Corporation under the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules promulgated thereunder.
Each such notice by a stockholder shall set forth: (a) the name and address, as they appear on the Corporation's stock register, of the stockholder who intends to make the nomination; (b) a representation that the stockholder is a holder of record of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote for the election of Directors on the date of such notice and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to nominate the person or persons specified in the notice; (c) a description of all arrangements or understandings between
 
Bylaws - November 7, 2007
the stockholder and each nominee and any other person or persons (naming such person or persons) pursuant to which the nomination or nominations are to be made by the stockholder; (d) the name, age, business and residence address and principal occupation of each person the stockholder proposes to nominate for election as a director; (e) such other information regarding the stockholder and each nominee proposed by such stockholder as would be required to be included in a proxy statement filed pursuant to the proxy rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission, whether or not proxies are in fact solicited for the election of such person; and (f) the signed consent of each nominee to serve as a director of the Corporation if so elected. The Corporation or any nominating committee designated by the Board of Directors may require any proposed nominee to furnish such other information as may reasonably be required by the Corporation or such committee to determine the qualification of such nominee for election as a director of the Corporation.
In the event that a person is validly designated as a nominee in accordance with this Section 11 and shall thereafter become unable or unwilling to stand for election to the Board of Directors, the Board of Directors or the stockholder who proposed such nominee as the case may be, may designate a substitute nominee; provided, however, that (i) in the case of the persons nominated by a stockholder, such a substitution may only be made if a written notice to the Secretary setting forth such information regarding such substitute nominee as would have been required to be delivered to the Secretary pursuant to this Section 11 had such substitute nominee been initially proposed as a nominee is received by the Corporation at its principal executive offices not less than thirty (30) days before the date of the election at which the initial nominee was nominated to stand or (ii) in the case of persons nominated by the Board of Directors, the substitute nominee must be designated not less than thirty (30) days before the date of the election at which the initial nominee was nominated to stand.
If the chairman of the meeting for the election of Directors determines that a nomination of any candidate for election as a Director at such meeting was not made in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Section 11, such nomination shall be void; provided, however, that nothing in this Section 11 shall be deemed to limit any voting rights upon the occurrence of dividend arrearages, provided to holders of Preferred Stock pursuant to the Preferred Stock designation for any series of Preferred Stock.
Section 1. . The Board of Directors, by a resolution passed by a vote of a majority of the whole Board, may from time to time designate committees of the Board, with such lawfully delegable powers and duties as it thereby confers, to serve at the pleasure of the Board and shall, for those committees and any others provided for herein, elect a director or directors to serve as the member
Committees of the Board of Directors
 
Bylaws - November 7, 2007
or members, designating, if it desires, other directors as alternate members who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee. Any committee so designated may exercise the power and authority of the Board of Directors to declare a dividend, to authorize the issuance of stock or to adopt a certificate of ownership and merger pursuant to Section 253 of the Delaware General Corporation Law if the resolution which designates the committee or a supplemental resolution of the Board of Directors shall so provide. In the absence or disqualification of any member of any committee and any alternate member in his place, the member or members of the committee present at the meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not he or they constitute a quorum, may by unanimous vote appoint another member of the Board of Directors to act at the meeting in the place of the absent or disqualified member.
Section 2. . Each committee may determine the procedural rules for meeting and conducting its business and shall act in accordance therewith, except as otherwise provided herein or required by law. Adequate provision shall be made for notice to members of all meetings (consistent with the notice provisions of Article II, Section 5 of these By-Laws); one-third of the authorized members shall constitute a quorum unless the committee shall consist of one or two members, in which event one member shall constitute a quorum; and all matters shall be determined by a majority vote of the members present. Action may be taken by any committee without a meeting if all members thereof consent thereto in writing or by electronic transmission, and the writing or writings or electronic transmission or transmissions are filed with the minutes of the proceedings of such committee.
Conduct of Business
Section 1. . The officers of the Corporation shall consist of a Chairman of the Board, a Chief Executive Officer, a President, one or more Vice Presidents, a Secretary, a Chief Financial Officer and such other officers as may from time to time be appointed by the Board of Directors. In addition, the Corporation's officers for purposes of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, shall be designated by the Board of Directors. Each officer shall hold office until his successor is elected and qualified or until his earlier resignation or removal. Any number of offices may be held by the same person.
Generally
Section 2. . The Chairman of the Board, if such an officer be elected, shall, if present, preside at meetings of the stockholders and the Board of Directors and exercise and perform such other powers and duties as may from time to time be assigned to him by the Board of Directors or as may be prescribed by these By-Laws. If there is no Chief Executive Officer, then the Chairman of the Board shall also be the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation and shall have the powers and duties prescribed in Article IV, Section 3 of these By-Laws.
Chairman of the Board
 
Bylaws - November 7, 2007
Section 3. . Subject to such supervisory powers, if any, as may be given by the Board of Directors to the Chairman of the Board, if there be such an officer, the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation shall, subject to the control of the Board of Directors, have general supervision, direction, and control of the business and the officers of the Corporation. In the absence or nonexistence of a Chairman of the Board, he shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders and the Board of Directors. He shall have the general powers and duties of management usually vested in the Chief Executive Officer of a Corporation and shall have such other powers and duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or these By-Laws.
Chief Executive Officer
Section 4. . The President shall act in a general executive capacity with such duties and powers as may be prescribed by the Chief Executive Officer or the Board of Directors.
President
Section 5. . In addition to officers elected by the Board of Directors in accordance with the first paragraph of Section 1 of this Article IV, the Corporation may have one or more appointed vice presidents. Such appointed vice presidents may be appointed by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer. The Board of Directors may designate one or more appointed vice presidents as executive vice presidents or senior vice presidents, and the Chief Executive Officer may designate one or more appointed vice presidents as senior vice presidents. Each Vice President shall have such powers and duties as may be delegated to him by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer.
Vice President
Section 6. . The Chief Financial Officer shall have the responsibility for maintaining the financial records of the Corporation and shall have custody of all monies and securities of the Corporation. He shall make or cause to be made such disbursements of the funds of the Corporation as are authorized and shall render from time to time an account of all such transactions and of the financial condition of the Corporation. The Chief Financial Officer shall also perform such other duties as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe.
Chief Financial Officer
Section 7. . The Secretary shall issue all authorized notices for, and shall keep, or cause to be kept, minutes of all meetings of the stockholders, the Board of Directors, and all committees of the Board of Directors. The Secretary shall keep, or cause to be kept at the principal executive office or at the office of the Corporation's transfer agent or registrar, a record of the Corporation's stockholders, giving the names and addresses of all stockholders and the number and class of shares held by each. The Secretary shall have charge of the seal and the corporate books of the Corporation and shall perform such other duties as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe.
Secretary
Section 8. . The Board of Directors may from time to time delegate the powers or duties of any officer to any other officers or agents, notwithstanding any provision hereof.
Delegation of Authority
 
Bylaws - November 7, 2007
Section 9. . Any officer of the Corporation may be removed at any time, with or without cause, by the Board of Directors or by any officer who may be granted such power by the Board of Directors.
Removal
Section 10. . Unless otherwise directed by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or any officer of the Corporation authorized by the Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer shall have power to vote and otherwise act on behalf of the Corporation, in person or by proxy, at any meeting of stockholders of or with respect to any action of stockholders of any other corporation in which this Corporation may hold securities and otherwise to exercise any and all rights and powers which this Corporation may possess by reason of its ownership of securities in such other corporation.
Action With Respect to Securities of Other Corporations
Section 1. . There will be issued to each holder of fully paid shares of the capital stock of the Corporation a certificate or certificates for such shares, if so requested by the holder (in the absence of such request, shares may be issued in book-entry form). To the extent required by the Delaware General Corporation Law, each holder of stock represented by certificates and, upon request, each holder of stock represented by uncertificated shares shall be entitled to a certificate signed by, or in the name of the Corporation by, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or a Vice President, and by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, or the Chief Financial Officer or Treasurer (if there be such an officer), certifying the number of shares owned by him or her. Any or all of the signatures on the certificate may be a facsimile.
Certificates of Stock
Section 2. . Transfers of stock shall be made only upon the transfer books of the Corporation kept at an office of the Corporation or by transfer agents designated to transfer shares of the stock of the Corporation. Except where (a) a certificate is issued in accordance with Section 4 of Article V of these By-Laws or (b) the shares being transferred or re-issued are uncertificated shares, an outstanding certificate for the number of shares involved shall be surrendered for cancellation before a new certificate is issued therefor.
Transfers of Stock
Section 3. . The Board of Directors may fix a record date, which shall not be more than sixty (60) days nor fewer than ten (10) days before the date of any meeting of stockholders, nor more than sixty (60) days prior to the time for other action hereinafter described, as of which there shall be determined the stockholders who are entitled: to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof; to express consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting (if the
Record Date
 
Bylaws - November 7, 2007
Corporation's charter and By-Laws allow such action without a meeting); to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights; or to exercise any rights with respect to any change, conversion or exchange of stock or with respect to any other lawful action.
Section 4. . In the event of the loss, theft or destruction of any certificate of stock, another may be issued in its place pursuant to such regulations as the Board of Directors may establish concerning proof of such loss, theft or destruction and concerning the giving of a satisfactory bond or bonds of indemnity.
Lost, Stolen or Destroyed Certificates
Section 5. . The issue, transfer, conversion and registration of certificates of stock shall be governed by such other regulations as the Board of Directors may establish.
Regulations
Section 1. . Except as otherwise specifically provided herein or required by law, all notices required to be given to any stockholder, director, officer, employee or agent shall be in writing and may in every instance be effectively given by hand delivery to the recipient thereof, by depositing such notice in the mails, postage paid, or by sending such notice by electronic transmission, facsimile, prepaid telegram, mailgram or commercial courier service. Any such notice shall be addressed to such stockholder, director, officer, employee or agent at his or her last known address as the same appears on the books of the Corporation. The time when such notice shall be deemed to be given shall be (a) the time such notice is received by such stockholder, director, officer, employee or agent, or by any person accepting such notice on behalf of such person, if hand delivered, or (b) the time such notice is dispatched, if delivered through the mails or by electronic transmission, facsimile, telegram, mailgram or courier.
Notices
Section 2. . A written waiver of any notice, signed by a stockholder, director, officer, employee or agent or a waiver by electronic transmission by any such person, whether before or after the time of the event for which notice is to be given, shall be deemed equivalent to the notice required to be given to such stockholder, director, officer, employee or agent. Neither the business nor the purpose of any meeting need be specified in such a waiver. Attendance of a person at a meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice for such meeting, except when the person attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened.
Waivers
 
Bylaws - November 7, 2007
Section 1. . In addition to the provisions for use of facsimile signatures elsewhere specifically authorized in these By-Laws, facsimile signatures of any officer or officers of the Corporation may be used whenever and as authorized by the Board of Directors or a committee thereof.
Facsimile Signatures
Section 2. . The Board of Directors may provide a suitable seal, containing the name of the Corporation, which seal shall be in the charge of the Secretary. If and when so directed by the Board of Directors or a committee thereof, duplicates of the seal may be kept and used by the Chief Financial Officer or by an Assistant Secretary.
Corporate Seal
Section 3. . Each director, each member of any committee designated by the Board of Directors, and each officer of the Corporation shall, in the performance of his duties, be fully protected in relying in good faith upon the books of account or other records of the Corporation, including reports made to the Corporation by any of its officers, by an independent certified public accountant, or by an appraiser selected with reasonable care.
Reliance Upon Books, Reports and Records
Section 4. . The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be as fixed by the Board of Directors.
Fiscal Year
Section 5. . In applying any provision of these By-Laws which require that an act be done or not done a specified number of days prior to an event or that an act be done during a period of a specified number of days prior to an event, calendar days shall be used.
Time Periods
Section 1. . Each person who was or is made a party or is threatened to be made a party to or is involved in any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative ("proceeding"), by reason of the fact that he or a person of whom he is the legal representative, is or was a director, officer or employee of the Corporation or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer or employee of another corporation, or of a partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including service with respect to employee benefit plans, whether the basis of such proceeding is alleged action in an official capacity as a director, officer or employee or in any other capacity while serving as a director, officer or employee, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Corporation to the fullest extent authorized by Delaware Law, as the same exists or may hereafter be amended (but, in the case of any such amendment, only to the extent that such amendment permits the Corporation to provide broader indemnification rights than said Law permitted the Corporation to provide prior to such amendment) against all expenses, liability and loss (including attorneys' fees, judgments, fines, ERISA excise taxes or penalties, amounts
Right to Indemnification
 
Bylaws - November 7, 2007
paid or to be paid in settlement and amounts expended in seeking indemnification granted to such person under applicable law, this by-law or any agreement with the Corporation) reasonably incurred or suffered by such person in connection therewith and such indemnification shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director, officer or employee and shall inure to the benefit of his or her heirs, executors and administrators; that, except as provided in Section 2 of this Article VIII, the Corporation shall indemnify any such person seeking indemnity in connection with an action, suit or proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person only if such action, suit or proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized by the Board of Directors of the Corporation. Such right shall be a contract right and shall include the right to be paid by the Corporation expenses incurred in defending any such proceeding in advance of its final disposition; , , that, if the Delaware General Corporation Law then so requires, the payment of such expenses incurred by a director or officer of the Corporation in his or her capacity as a director or officer (and not in any other capacity in which service was or is rendered by such person while a director or officer, including, without limitation, service to an employee benefit plan) in advance of the final disposition of such proceeding, shall be made only upon delivery to the Corporation of an undertaking, by or on behalf of such director or officer, to repay all amounts so advanced if it should be determined ultimately that such director or officer is not entitled to be indemnified under this Section 1 or otherwise.
provided however,
provided
however
Section 2. . If a claim under Section 1 of this Article VIII is not paid in full by the Corporation within twenty (20) days after a written claim has been received by the Corporation, the claimant may at any time thereafter bring suit against the Corporation to recover the unpaid amount of the claim and, if such suit is not frivolous or brought in bad faith, the claimant shall be entitled to be paid also the expense of prosecuting such claim. It shall be a defense to any such action (other than an action brought to enforce a claim for expenses incurred in defending any proceeding in advance of its final disposition where the required undertaking, if any, has been tendered to this Corporation) that the claimant has not met the standards of conduct which make it permissible under the Delaware General Corporation Law for the Corporation to indemnify the claimant for the amount claimed, but the burden of proving such defense shall be on the Corporation. Neither the failure of the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel, or its stockholders) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such action that indemnification of the claimant is proper in the circumstances because he has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in the Delaware General Corporation Law, nor an actual determination by the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel, or its stockholders) that the claimant has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall be a defense to the action or create a presumption that claimant has not met the applicable standard of conduct.
Right of Claimant to Bring Suit
 
Bylaws - November 7, 2007
Section 3. . The rights conferred on any person in Sections 1 and 2 of this Article VIII shall not be exclusive of any other right which such persons may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, provision of the Certificate of Incorporation, by-law, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise.
Non-Exclusivity of Rights
Section 4. . The Board of Directors is authorized to enter into a contract with any director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation, or any person serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including employee benefit plans, providing for indemnification rights equivalent to or, if the Board of Directors so determines, greater than, those provided for in this Article VIII.
Indemnification Contracts
Section 5. . The Corporation shall maintain insurance to the extent reasonably available, at its expense, to protect itself and any such director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation or another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any such expense, liability or loss, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify such person against such expense, liability or loss under the Delaware General Corporation Law.
Insurance
Section 6. . Any amendment, repeal or modification of any provision of this Article VIII by the stockholders or the Directors of the Corporation shall not adversely affect any right or protection of a director or officer of the Corporation existing at the time of such amendment, repeal or modification.
Effect of Amendment
Section 7. . If this Article VIII or any portion hereof shall be invalidated on any ground by any court of competent jurisdiction, then the Corporation shall nevertheless indemnify each director, officer, employee and agent of the Corporation as to costs, charges and expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement with respect to any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, including an action by or in the right of the Corporation, to the full extent permitted by an applicable portion of this Article VIII that shall not have been invalidated and to the full extent permitted by applicable law.
Savings Clause
The Board of Directors is expressly empowered to adopt, amend or repeal By-Laws of the Corporation. Any adoption, amendment or repeal of By-Laws of the Corporation by the Board of Directors shall require the approval of a majority of the total number of authorized directors (whether or not there exist any vacancies in previously authorized directorships at the time any resolution providing for adoption, amendment or repeal is presented to the Board). The stockholders shall also have power to adopt, amend or repeal the By-Laws of the Corporation. In the event of any such adoption, amendment or repeal of these By-Laws by stockholders, in addition to any vote of the holders or any class or series of stock of this Corporation required by law or by these By-Laws, the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the voting power of all of the then-outstanding shares of the capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class, shall be required.
 
Bylaws - November 7, 2007

Exhibit 99.1
made as of the day of , 2007 by and between KLA-Tencor Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and , the holder of one or more options to purchase shares of the Company's common stock (the "Optionee").
AGREEMENT
        
            
            
the Company previously granted to Optionee the options identified on attached (the "Options") to purchase shares of the Company's common stock under one or more of the Company's employee stock incentive plans (individually, a "Plan").
WHEREAS,
Schedule I
the Company and Optionee entered into a formal Stock Option Agreement (the "Option Agreement") evidencing each such Option.
WHEREAS,
in order to avoid adverse tax consequences under section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, Optionee agreed to have each of the Options amended to increase the exercise price per share to be in effect for the unexercised portion of that Option which is subject to section 409A and identified as such on (the "Covered Portion") to the lower of (i) the fair market value per share of the Company's common stock on the actual grant date determined for that option or (ii) the fair market value per share on the date the Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors approved the increased exercise price.
WHEREAS,
Schedule I
in order to compensate Optionee for the increased exercise prices to be in effect for the Covered Portions of the Options, the Company is willing to pay Optionee a special cash bonus in a dollar amount equal to the aggregate increase in the exercise prices for the Covered Portions of the Options listed on , with the actual dollar of that bonus indicated as the Total Special Bonus on .
WHEREAS,
Schedule I
Schedule I
the parties hereby agree as follows:
NOW THEREFORE,
The exercise price per share set forth in the Option Agreement for each of the Options listed on is hereby increased, with respect to the shares subject to the Covered Portion of that Option, to the higher exercise price per share set forth for that Option on Each of the Options shall be taxable as a non-statutory option upon exercise, and the Company shall collect the applicable withholding taxes at the time of exercise.
1. .
Increased Exercise Price
Schedule I
Schedule I
.
Optionee shall become entitled to receive a cash bonus from the Company (the "Special Bonus") in the gross dollar amount indicated as his or her Total Special Bonus on attached Payment shall be made on the Company's first regularly scheduled payroll date after January 1, 2008, which is scheduled to be January 10, 2008. However, the Special Bonus shall be subject to the Company's collection of all applicable federal, state and local income and employment withholding taxes, and Optionee shall be paid only the net amount of such bonus remaining after such taxes have been collected. Optionee need not remain in the Company's employ to receive the Special Bonus.
2. .
Special Bonus
Schedule I.
This Agreement, together with the Option Agreements (to the extent not expressly amended hereby) and the applicable Plan under which each Option is outstanding, represents the entire agreement of the parties with respect to the Options, the Covered Portions thereof and the Special Bonus and supersedes any and all previous contracts, arrangements or understandings between the parties with respect to such Options and the Special Bonus. This Agreement may be amended at any time only by means of a writing signed by Optionee and an authorized officer of the Company.
3. .
Entire Agreement
. Except for the foregoing increases to the exercise prices per share for the Covered Portions of the Options, no other terms or provisions of the Option Agreements for such Options or the applicable Plans have been modified as a result of this Agreement, and those terms and provisions shall continue in full force and effect.
5.
Continuation of Option Agreements
this Agreement has been executed on behalf of KLA-Tencor Corporation by a duly-authorized officer of the Company and by Optionee.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Milpitas, Calif., November 8, 2007KLA-Tencor Corporation (NASDAQ: KLAC) today announced that its Board of Directors has declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.15 per share on its common stock payable on December 3, 2007 to KLA-Tencor stockholders of record on November 19, 2007.
KLA-Tencor is the world leader in yield management and process control solutions for semiconductor manufacturing and related industries. Headquartered in San Jose, Calif., the company has sales and service offices around the world. An S&P 500 company, KLA-Tencor is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol KLAC. Additional information about the company is available on the Internet at .
About KLA-Tencor:
http://www.kla-tencor.com


