FILE:KLAC/KLAC-8K-20070725142519.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
On July 25, 2007, KLA-Tencor Corporation (the "Company") announced that it has reached a settlement with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") by consenting to the entry of a permanent injunction against future violations of the reporting, books and records, and internal controls provisions of the federal securities laws.
The settlement resolves completely the previously disclosed SEC investigation into the Company's historical stock option granting practices. The Company was not charged by the SEC with fraud nor was the Company required to pay any civil penalty, fine, or money damages as part of the settlement.
A copy of the Company's news release issued on July 25, 2007 in connection with the foregoing, is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
The following exhibit is filed herewith:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
SAN JOSE, California, July 25, 2007  KLA-Tencor Corporation (NASDAQ: KLAC) today announced that it has reached a settlement with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") by consenting to the entry of a permanent injunction against future violations of the reporting, books and records, and internal controls provisions of the federal securities laws.
The settlement resolves completely the previously disclosed SEC investigation into the company's historical stock option granting practices. KLA-Tencor was not charged by the SEC with fraud nor was the company required to pay any civil penalty, fine, or money damages as part of the settlement.
About KLA-Tencor: KLA-Tencor is the world leader in yield management and process control solutions for semiconductor manufacturing and related industries. Headquartered in San Jose, California, the Company has sales and service offices around the world. An S&P 500 company, KLA-Tencor is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol KLAC. Additional information about the Company is available at .
http://www.kla-tencor.com


