FILE:KLAC/KLAC-8K-20070222170029.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On February 22, 2007, KLA-Tencor Corporation (the "Company") entered into a letter agreement (the "Agreement") with Merrill Lynch International ("Merrill Lynch") relating to an accelerated share repurchase under which the Company will repurchase $750 million of the Company's common stock from Merrill Lynch. Under the Agreement, the price at which the Company will repurchase shares will be determined based on a discount to the volume-weighted average price of the Company's common stock during a period following execution of the Agreement. The exact number of shares repurchased will be determined based on the volume-weighted average price of the Company's common stock during the same period, subject to a minimum that will be established in a similar manner following execution of the Agreement.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
On February 22, 2007, KLA-Tencor issued a press release announcing the approval by its Board of Directors of a $750 million accelerated share repurchase and an additional new 10 million share repurchase program. Both the accelerated share repurchase and the new 10 million share repurchase program are in addition to the existing 10 million share repurchase program authorized by the Company's Board of Directors in February 2005. Under the existing repurchase program, approximately 6.5 million shares have been repurchased to date and approximately 3.5 million shares remain available for repurchase. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in Item 7.01 of this Form 8-K and the exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
The following exhibits are filed herewith:
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
DRAFT NEWS RELEASE
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
February 22, 2007
SAN JOSE, CA  KLA-Tencor Corporation (NasdaqGS: KLAC) today announced that it has entered into an accelerated share repurchase agreement under which the Company will repurchase $750 million of its common stock. The Company also announced that its Board of Directors has approved a new 10 million share repurchase program. The new accelerated share repurchase and the new 10 million share repurchase program are in addition to the existing 10 million share repurchase program authorized by the Company's Board of Directors in February 2005.
KLA-Tencor is the world leader in yield management and process control solutions for semiconductor manufacturing and related industries. Headquartered in San Jose, Calif., the company has sales and service offices around the world. An S&P 500 company, KLA-Tencor is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol KLAC. Additional information about the company is available on the Internet at , which website is not part of this press release.
About KLA-Tencor:
http://www.kla-tencor.com


