FILE:KLAC/KLAC-8K-20080506172641.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 1.01.    Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
See disclosure under Item 2.03 of this report, which is incorporated by reference in this Item 1.01.
 
 
Item 2.03.    Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
 
On May 2, 2008, KLA-Tencor Corporation ("KLA-Tencor") issued $750,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 6.900% senior notes due 2018 (the "Notes") pursuant to an Indenture dated as of May 2, 2008 between KLA-Tencor and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as trustee (the "Indenture"). A copy of the Indenture is attached hereto as Exhibit 4.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference, and the following summary is qualified in its entirety by the full text of the Indenture.
The Notes bear interest at the rate of 6.900% per annum. Interest on the Notes is payable on May 1 and November 1 of each year beginning November 1, 2008. The Notes will mature on May 1, 2018.
KLA-Tencor may redeem all or part of the Notes for cash at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount to be redeemed plus a make-whole premium and accrued and unpaid interest. The make-whole premium is calculated as the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled interest payments on the Notes at the time of re demption, discounted at a rate equal to the yield to maturity of a comparable treasury security plus 50 basis points.
Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event (as defined in the Indenture), holders of the Notes may require KLA-Tencor to purchase all or a portion of their Notes for cash at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest. Subject to certain exceptions, the Indenture generally defines "Change of Control Triggering Event" as the combination of (i) a change of control of KLA-Tencor and (ii) a downgrade or withdrawal of the Notes' rating by two or more of the three rating agencies that rate the Notes during the period commencing on the date that KLA-Tencor announces the occurrence of or its intention to effect a change of control, and ending on the date that is 60 days after the consummation of such change of control.
The Indenture contains covenants restricting KLA-Tencor's and its subsidiaries' ability to incur secured indebted ness and to engage in sale-leaseback transactions, subject to certain exceptions.
The Notes will be unsecured and will rank equally in right of payment with all of KLA-Tencor's future unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness. The Notes will not be guaranteed by any of KLA-Tencor's subsidiaries and will be effectively subordinated to any of KLA-Tencor's future secured indebtedness and to all future indebtedness and other liabilities of KLA-Tencor's subsidiaries.
The Indenture contains additional customary terms and covenants, including provisions under which if certain events of default occur and are continuing, the trustee or the holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding may declare the principal of the Notes and any accrued and unpaid interest through the date of such declaration immediately due and payable.
 
 
Item 9.01.    Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits
The following exhibits are filed herewith:
Exhibit No.                        Description
        4.1        Indenture dated as of May 2, 2008 by and between KLA-Tencor Corporation and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as trustee
        4.2        Form of 6.900% Senior Notes Due 2018 (included in Exhibit 4.1)
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

KLA-TENCOR CORPORATION
and
WELLS FARGO BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,
Trustee
NOTE
: This reconciliation and tie shall not, for any purpose, be deemed to be a part of the Indenture.
_________________________
NOTE
: This Table of Contents shall not, for any purpose, be deemed to be a part of the Indenture.
SIGNATURES
EXHIBITS:
Exhibit A: Form of Security
     
INDENTURE, dated as of May 2, 2008, between KLA-TENCOR CORPORATION, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (herein called the "Company"), having its principal office at One Technology Drive, Milpitas, California 95035, and WELLS FARGO BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, a national banking association, as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee").
     
The Company has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Indenture to provide for the issuance from time to time of its unsecured notes (the "Securities") to be issued in one or more series under this Indenture.
     
All things necessary to make this Indenture a valid agreement of the Company, in accordance with its terms, have been done.
N
OW
, T
HEREFORE
, T
HIS
I
NDENTURE
W
ITNESSETH
:
     
For and in consideration of the premises and the purchase of the Securities of any series by the Holders thereof, it is mutually agreed, for the equal and proportionate benefit of all Holders of such Securities, as follows:
     
For all purposes of this Indenture and of any indenture supplemental hereto, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires:
     
(1) the terms defined in this Article have the meanings assigned to them in this Article and include the plural as well as the singular;
     
(2) all other terms used herein which are defined in the Trust Indenture Act, either directly or by reference therein, have the meanings assigned to them therein;
     
(3) all accounting terms not otherwise defined herein have the meanings assigned to them in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and, except as otherwise herein expressly provided, the term "generally accepted accounting principles" with respect to any computation required or permitted hereunder shall mean such accounting principles as are generally accepted in the United States of America at the date of such computation;
1
     
(4) unless the context otherwise requires, any reference to an "Article," a "Section" or a "Subsection" refers to an Article, a Section or a Subsection, as the case may be, of this Indenture; and
     
(5) the words "herein", "hereof" and "hereunder" and other words of similar import refer to this Indenture as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section, Subsection or other subdivision.
     
"Act", when used with respect to any Holder, has the meaning specified in Section 104.
     
"Affiliate" of any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For the purposes of this definition, "control" when used with respect to any specified Person means the power to direct the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" have meanings correlative to the foregoing.
     
"Applicable Procedures" means, with respect to any transfer or exchange of or for beneficial interests in any Global Security, the rules and procedures of the Depository that apply to such transfer or exchange.
     
"Attributable Debt" with regard to a Sale and Lease-Back Transaction with respect to any Principal Property means, at the time of determination, the present value of the total net amount of rent required to be paid under such lease during the remaining term thereof (including any period for which such lease has been extended), discounted at the rate of interest set forth or implicit in the terms of such lease (or, if not practicable to determine such rate, the weighted average interest rate per annum borne by the Securities then outstanding under this Indenture) compounded semi-annually. In the case of any lease which is terminable by the lessee upon the payment of a penalty, such net amount shall be the lesser of (x) the net amount determined assuming termination upon the first date such lease may be terminated (in which case the net amount shall also include the amount of the penalty, but shall not include any rent that would be required to be paid under such lease subsequent to the first date upon which it may be so terminated) or (y) the net amount determined assuming no such termination.
     
"Authenticating Agent" means any Person authorized by the Trustee pursuant to Section 614 to act on behalf of the Trustee to authenticate Securities of one or more series.
     
"Bankruptcy Law" means Title 11, U.S. Code or any similar Federal or state law for the relief of debtors.
     
"Board of Directors" means, as to any Person, the board of directors (or similar governing body) of such person or any duly authorized committee thereof.
2
     
"Board Resolution" means a copy of a resolution certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company to have been duly adopted by the Board of Directors, or a committee thereof or other persons to whom authority has been duly delegated, and to be in full force and effect on the date of such certification, and delivered to the Trustee.
     
"Business Day", when used with respect to any Place of Payment, means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday which is not a day on which banking institutions in that Place of Payment are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close.
     
(1) with respect to any Person that is a corporation, any and all shares, interests, participations or other equivalents (however designated and whether or not voting) of corporate stock, including each class of Common Stock and Preferred Stock of such Person, and all options, warrants or other rights to purchase or acquire any of the foregoing; and
     
(2) with respect to any Person that is not a corporation, any and all partnership, membership or other equity interests of such Person, and all options, warrants or other rights to purchase or acquire any of the foregoing.
     
"Change of Control" means the occurrence of any one of the following: (1) the direct or indirect sale, lease, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger, amalgamation, arrangement or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the properties or assets of the Company and those of the Subsidiaries of the Company, taken as a whole, to one or more persons, other than to the Company or one of the Subsidiaries of the Company; (2) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Board of Directors of the Company is not composed of Continuing Directors (as defined below); (3) the consummation of any transaction including, without limitation, any merger, amalgamation, arrangement or consolidation the result of which is that any person becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Voting Stock of the Company; (4) the Company consolidates with, or merges with or into, any person, or any person consolidates with, or merges with or into, the Company, in any such event pursuant to a transaction in which any of the outstanding Voting Stock of the Company or of such other person is converted into or exchanged for cash, securities or other property, other than any such transaction where the shares of the Voting Stock of the Company outstanding immediately prior to such transaction constitute, or are converted into or exchanged for, a majority of the Voting Stock of the surviving person immediately after giving effect to such transaction; or (5) the adoption of a plan relating to the liquidation or dissolution of the Company. For the purposes of this definition only, "person" and "beneficial owner" have the meanings used in Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act.
3
     
"Change of Control Triggering Event" with respect to the Securities of a series means the Securities of such series cease to be rated Investment Grade by at least two of the three Rating Agencies on any date during the period (the "Trigger Period") commencing on the date of the first public notice of the occurrence of a Change of Control or the intention of the Company to effect a Change of Control and ending 60 days following consummation of such Change of Control (which Trigger Period will be extended following consummation of a Change of Control for so long as any of the Rating Agencies has publicly announced that it is considering a possible ratings change). Unless at least two of the three Rating Agencies are providing a rating for the Securities of a series at the commencement of any Trigger Period, the Securities of such series will be deemed to have ceased to be rated Investment Grade by at least two of the three Rating Agencies during that Trigger Period. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Change of Control Triggering Event will be deemed to have occurred in connection with any particular Change of Control unless and until such Change of Control has actually been consummated.
     
"Commission" means the Securities and Exchange Commission created under the Exchange Act, as from time to time constituted, or, if at any time after the execution of this instrument such Commission is not existing and performing the duties now assigned to it under the Trust Indenture Act, then the body performing such duties at such time.
     
"Common Stock" of any Person means any and all shares, interests or other participations in, and other equivalents (however designated and whether voting or non-voting) of, such Person's common stock, whether outstanding on the Issue Date or issued after the Issue Date, and includes, without limitation, all series and classes of such common stock.
     
"Company" means the Person named as the "Company" in the first paragraph of this instrument until a successor Person shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Company" shall mean such successor Person.
     
"Company Request" or "Company Order" means a written request or order signed in the name of the Company by its Chairman of the Board, its Vice Chairman of the Board, its President, a Vice President, its Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, its Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, and delivered to the Trustee.
     
"Consolidated Net Tangible Assets" means, as of any date on which the Company effects a transaction requiring such Consolidated Net Tangible Assets to be measured hereunder, the aggregate amount of assets (less applicable reserves) after deducting therefrom: (a) all current liabilities, except for current maturities of long-term debt and obligations under capital leases; and (b) intangible assets (including goodwill), to the extent included in said aggregate amount of assets, all as set forth on the Company's most recent consolidated balance sheet and computed in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America applied on a consistent basis.
4
     
"Continuing Directors" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Board of Directors of the Company who (1) was a member of the Board of Directors of the Company on the Issue Date; or (2) was nominated for election, elected or appointed to the Board of Directors of the Company with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of the Board of Directors of the Company at the time of such nomination, election or appointment (either by a specific vote or by approval by such directors of the Company's proxy statement in which such member was named as a nominee for election as a director).
     
"Corporate Trust Office" means the office of the Trustee or the Security Registrar, as the case may be, at which at any particular time its corporate trust business shall be principally administered, which office as of the date of this Indenture is located at 707 Wilshire Boulevard, 17th Floor, Corporate Trust Department, Los Angeles, California, 90017, Attention: Corporate Trust Department except that with respect to presentation of Securities for payment or for registration of transfer or exchange or for service of notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of Securities and this Indenture, such term shall mean the office or agency of the Trustee at which at any particular time its corporate agency business shall be conducted, which office at the date of this instrument is located at 608 2nd Avenue South, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55402; Attention: Bondholder Communications, or, in the case of any of such offices, such other address as the Trustee may designate from time to time by notice to the Holders and the Company.
     
"corporation" means a corporation, association, company, joint-stock company or business (including Delaware statutory) trust.
     
"Default" means an event or condition the occurrence of which is, or with the lapse of time or the giving of notice or both would be, an Event of Default.
"Defaulted Interest" has the meaning specified in Section 305.
     
"Definitive Security" means a certificated Security registered in the name of the Holder thereof and issued in accordance with Section 203 hereof, substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto, except that such Security shall not bear the Global Security Legend and shall not have the "Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in the Global Security" attached thereto.
     
"Depository" means, with respect to Securities of any series issuable in whole or in part in the form of one or more Global Securities, a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act that is designated to act as Depository for such Securities as contemplated by Section 203.
"Event of Default" has the meaning specified in Section 501.
     
"Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and any successor thereto, in each case as amended from time to time.
5
     
"Global Securities" means one or more Securities, substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto, as appropriate, that bear the Global Security Legend and that have the "Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in the Global Security" attached thereto, and that are deposited with or on behalf of and registered in the name of the Depository, and issued in accordance with Section 201 or 203 of this Indenture.
     
"Global Security Legend" means the legend set forth in Section 203(d)(i), which is required to be placed on all Global Securities issued under this Indenture.
     
(1) interest rate swap agreements (whether from fixed to floating or from floating to fixed), interest rate cap agreements and interest rate collar agreements;
     
(2) other agreements or arrangements designed to manage interest rates or interest rate risk;
     
(3) other agreements or arrangements designed to protect against fluctuations in currency exchange rates or commodity prices; and
     
(4) other agreements or arrangements designed to protect against fluctuations in equity prices.
     
"Holder" means a Person in whose name a Security is registered in the Security Register.
     
"Indenture" means this instrument as originally executed and as it may from time to time be supplemented or amended by one or more indentures supplemental hereto entered into pursuant to the applicable provisions hereof, including, for all purposes of this instrument and any such supplemental indenture, the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act that are deemed to be a part of and govern this instrument and any such supplemental indenture, respectively. The term "Indenture" shall also include the terms of particular series of Securities established as contemplated by Section 301.
     
"Indirect Participant" means a Person who holds a beneficial interest in a Global Security through a Participant.
6
     
"Interest Payment Date", when used with respect to any Security, means the date specified in such Security as the fixed date on which an installment of interest on such Security is due and payable.
     
"Investment Grade" means a rating equal to or higher than Baa3 (or the equivalent) by Moody's, BBB- (or the equivalent) by S&P or BBB- (or the equivalent) by Fitch, and the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any replacement Rating Agency or Rating Agencies selected by the Company.
     
"Lien" means any lien, mortgage, deed of trust, hypothecation, pledge, security interest, charge or encumbrance of any kind.
     
"Maturity", when used with respect to a Security of any series, means the date on which the principal of such Security or an installment of principal becomes due and payable as therein or herein provided, whether at the Stated Maturity or by declaration of acceleration, call for redemption or otherwise.
     
"Moody's" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc, a subsidiary of Moody's Corporation, and its successors.
     
"Notice of Default" means a written notice of the kind specified in Section 501(d).
     
"Officer" means the Chairman of the Board, a Vice Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Legal Officer, the Chief Administrative Officer, a President, Vice President, Treasurer, Assistant Treasurer, Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, of the Company.
     
"Officer's Certificate" means a certificate signed on behalf of the Company by the principal executive, financial or accounting officer of the Company.
     
"Opinion of Counsel" means a written opinion of legal counsel, who may be an employee of, or outside counsel for, the Company, and who shall be acceptable to the Trustee.
     
"Outstanding", when used with respect to the Securities or Securities of any series, means, as of the date of determination, all such Securities theretofore authenticated and delivered under this Indenture,
except
:
     
(1) such Securities theretofore cancelled by the Trustee or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation;
     
(2) such Securities for whose payment or redemption money in the necessary amount has been theretofore deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent (other
7
than the Company) in trust or set aside and segregated in trust by the Company (if the Company shall act as its own Paying Agent) for the Holders of such Securities;
provided
,
however
, that, if such Securities are to be redeemed, notice of such redemption has been duly given pursuant to this Indenture or provision therefor satisfactory to the Trustee has been made;
     
(3) such Securities as to which Legal Defeasance has been effected pursuant to Section 1202; and
     
(4) such Securities which have been paid pursuant to Section 304 or in exchange for or in lieu of which other Securities have been authenticated and delivered pursuant to this Indenture, other than any such Securities in respect of which there shall have been presented to the Trustee proof satisfactory to it that such Securities are held by a bona fide purchaser in whose hands such Securities are valid obligations of the Company;
provided
,
however
, that in determining whether the Holders of the requisite aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities have given, made or taken any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action hereunder as of any date, Securities owned by the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or of such other obligor shall be disregarded and deemed not to be Outstanding, except that, in determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying upon any such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action, only Securities of which a Responsible Officer of the Trustee has actual knowledge are so owned shall be so disregarded. Securities so owned which have been pledged in good faith may be regarded as Outstanding if the pledgee establishes to the satisfaction of the Trustee the pledgee's right so to act with respect to such Securities and that the pledgee is not the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or of such other obligor.
     
"Participant" means, with respect to the Depository, a Person who has an account with the Depository.
     
"Paying Agent" means any Person authorized by the Company to pay the principal of or any premium or interest on the Securities of any series on behalf of the Company.
     
"Person" means any individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, trust, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision of a government or governmental agency.
     
"Place of Payment", when used with respect to the Securities of any series, means the place or places where the principal of and any premium and interest on the Securities of that series are payable as specified as contemplated by Section 301.
     
"Predecessor Security" of any particular Security means every previous Security evidencing all or a portion of the same debt as that evidenced by such particular Security, and, for the purposes of this definition, any Security authenticated and delivered under
Section 304 in exchange for or in lieu of a mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall be deemed to evidence the same debt as the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security.
     
"Preferred Stock" of any Person means any Capital Stock of such Person that has preferential rights to any other Capital Stock of such Person with respect to dividends or redemptions or upon liquidation.
     
"Principal Property" means the land, improvements, buildings, fixtures and equipment (including any leasehold interest therein) constituting the principal corporate office, any manufacturing, assembly or test plant, or any manufacturing, assembly, test, distribution or research facility (in each case, whether now owned or hereafter acquired) which is owned or leased by the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company unless the Board of Directors of the Company has determined in good faith that such office, plant or facility is not of material importance to the total business conducted by the Company and the Subsidiaries of the Company taken as a whole. With respect to any Sale and LeaseBack Transaction or series of related Sale and Lease-Back Transactions, the determination of whether any property is a Principal Property shall be determined by reference to all properties affected by such transaction or series of transactions.
     
"Rating Agencies" means (a) each of Moody's, S&P and Fitch to the extent Fitch makes its rating available; and (b) if any of the Rating Agencies ceases to rate the Securities of any series or fails to make a rating of the Securities of such series publicly available for reasons outside of the Company's control, a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act that is selected by the Company (as certified by a resolution of the Board of Directors) as a replacement for Moody's, S&P or Fitch, or some or all of them, as the case may be, and that is reasonably acceptable to the Trustee.
     
"Redemption Date", when used with respect to any Security to be redeemed, means the date fixed for such redemption by or pursuant to this Indenture.
     
"Redemption Price", when used with respect to any Security to be redeemed, means the price specified in the Security at which it is to be redeemed pursuant to this Indenture.
     
"Regular Record Date" for the interest payable on any Interest Payment Date on the Securities of any series means the date specified for that purpose as contemplated by Section 301.
     
"Repurchase Date" means, with respect to any Security of any series to be repurchased, the date fixed for such repurchase by or pursuant to this Indenture.
     
"Repurchase Price" means the amount payable for the repurchase of any Security of any series on a Repurchase Date, exclusive of accrued and unpaid interest (if any) thereon to the Repurchase Date, unless otherwise specifically provided.
     
"Responsible Officer", when used with respect to the Trustee, means any officer of the Trustee within the Corporate Trust Division  Corporate Finance Unit of the Trustee (or any successor unit or department of the Trustee) located at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee who has direct responsibility for the administration of this Indenture and, for the purposes of Section 601(3)(B) and Section 602 (for the purposes of Section 315(b) of the Trust Indenture Act), shall also include any officer of the Trustee to whom any corporate trust matter is referred because of his knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject.
     
"S&P" means Standard & Poor's Rating Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., and its successors.
     
"Sale and Lease-Back Transaction" means any arrangement with any Person providing for the leasing by the Company or any of the Subsidiaries of the Company of any Principal Property, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, which Principal Property has been or is to be sold or transferred by the Company or such Subsidiary to such Person.
     
"Securities" means the Securities described in the first recital hereto and issued on the date hereof, and any other Securities issued after the date hereof under this Indenture.
     
"Securities Act" means the Securities Act of 1933 and any statute successor thereto, in each case as amended from time to time.
     
"Security Register" and "Security Registrar" have the respective meanings specified in Section 303.
     
"Significant Subsidiary," with respect to any Person, means any Subsidiary of such Person that satisfies the criteria for a "significant subsidiary" set forth in Rule 1-02(w) of Regulation S-X under the Exchange Act.
     
"Special Record Date" for the payment of any Defaulted Interest means a date fixed by the Trustee pursuant to Section 305.
     
"Stated Maturity", when used with respect to any Security or any installment of principal thereof, means the date specified in such Security as the fixed date on which the principal of such Security or such installment of principal is due and payable.
     
"Subsidiary" means any corporation, limited liability company or other similar type of business entity in which the Company and/or one or more of its Subsidiaries together own more than 50% of the total voting power of shares of Capital Stock entitled (without regard to the occurrence of any contingency) to vote in the election of the Board of Directors or similar governing body of such corporation, limited liability company or other similar type of business entity, directly or indirectly.
     
"Trust Indenture Act" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as in force at the date as of which this instrument was executed;
provided
,
however
, that in the event the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 is amended after such date, "Trust Indenture Act" means, to
the extent required by any such amendment, the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as so amended.
     
"Trustee" means the Person named as the "Trustee" in the first paragraph of this instrument until a successor Trustee shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Trustee" shall mean and include each Person who is then a Trustee hereunder, and if at any time there is more than one such Person, "Trustee" as used with respect to the Securities of any series shall mean the Trustee with respect to Securities of that series.
     
"U.S. Government Securities" shall mean securities which are (i) direct obligations of the United States of America for the payment of which its full faith and credit is pledged or (ii) obligations of a person controlled or supervised by and acting as an agency or instrumentality of the United States of America, the payment of which is unconditionally guaranteed as a full faith and credit obligation by the United States of America, which, in either case, are not callable or redeemable at the option of the issuer thereof, and shall also include a depository receipt issued by a bank or trust company as custodian with respect to any such U.S. Government Securities or a specific payment of interest on or principal of any such U.S. Government Securities held by such custodian for the account of the holder of a depository receipt; provided that (except as required by law) such custodian is not authorized to make any deduction from the amount payable to the holder of such depository receipt from any amount received by the custodian in respect of the U.S. Government Securities or the specific payment of interest on or principal of the U.S. Government Securities evidenced by such depository receipt.
     
"Vice President", when used with respect to the Company or the Trustee, means any vice president, whether or not designated by a number or a word or words added before or after the title "vice president".
     
"Voting Stock" of any specified Person as of any date means the Capital Stock of such Person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the Board of Directors of such Person.
SECTION 102.
Compliance Certificates and Opinions
.
     
Upon any application or request by the Company to the Trustee to take any action under any provision of this Indenture, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee such certificates and opinions as may be required under the Trust Indenture Act. Each such certificate or opinion shall be given in the form of an Officer's Certificate, if to be given by an officer of the Company, or an Opinion of Counsel, if to be given by counsel, and shall comply with the requirements of the Trust Indenture Act and any other requirements set forth in this Indenture. The Trustee may conclusively rely on the Opinion of Counsel and Officer's Certificate and has no duty or obligation to investigate further.
     
Every certificate (other than a certificate pursuant to Section 314(a)(4) of the Trust Indenture Act) or opinion with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for in this Indenture shall include,
     
(1) a statement that each individual signing such certificate or opinion has read such covenant or condition and the definitions herein relating thereto;
     
(2) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such certificate or opinion are based;
     
(3) a statement that, in the opinion of each such individual, he has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable him to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and
     
(4) a statement as to whether, in the opinion of each such individual, such condition or covenant has been complied with.
SECTION 103.
Form of Documents Delivered to Trustee
.
     
In any case where several matters are required to be certified by, or covered by an opinion of, any specified Person, it is not necessary that all such matters be certified by, or covered by the opinion of, only one such Person, or that they be so certified or covered by only one document, but one such Person may certify or give an opinion with respect to some matters and one or more other such Persons as to other matters, and any such Person may certify or give an opinion as to such matters in one or several documents.
     
Any certificate or opinion of an officer of the Company may be based, insofar as it relates to legal matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, counsel, unless such officer knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to the matters upon which his certificate or opinion is based are erroneous. Any such certificate or opinion of counsel may be based, insofar as it relates to factual matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, an officer or officers of the Company stating that the information with respect to such factual matters is in the possession of the Company, unless such counsel knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to such matters are erroneous.
     
Where any Person is required to make, give or execute two or more applications, requests, consents, certificates, statements, opinions or other instruments under this Indenture, they may, but need not, be consolidated and form one instrument.
SECTION 104.
Acts of Holders; Record Dates
.
     
Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided or permitted by this Indenture to be given, made or taken by Holders may be embodied in and evidenced by one or more instruments of substantially similar tenor signed by such Holders in person or by an agent duly appointed in writing, and, except as herein otherwise expressly provided, such action shall become effective when such instrument or instruments are delivered to the Trustee and, where it is hereby expressly required, to the Company. Such instrument or instruments (and the action embodied therein and evidenced thereby) are herein sometimes referred to as the "Act" of the
Holders signing such instrument or instruments. Proof of execution of any such instrument or of a writing appointing any such agent shall be sufficient for any purpose of this Indenture and (subject to Section 601) conclusive in favor of the Trustee and the Company, if made in the manner provided in this Section.
     
The fact and date of the execution by any Person of any such instrument or writing may be proved by the affidavit of a witness of such execution or by a certificate of a notary public or other officer authorized by law to take acknowledgments of deeds, certifying that the individual signing such instrument or writing acknowledged to him the execution thereof. Where such execution is by a signatory acting in a capacity other than his individual capacity, such certificate or affidavit shall also constitute sufficient proof of his authority. The fact and date of the execution of any such instrument or writing, or the authority of the Person executing the same, may also be proved in any other manner which the Trustee deems sufficient.
     
Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act of the Holder of any Security shall bind every future Holder of the same Security and the Holder of every Security issued upon the registration of transfer thereof or in exchange therefor or in lieu thereof in respect of anything done, omitted or suffered to be done by the Trustee or the Company in reliance thereon, whether or not notation of such action is made upon such Security.
     
The Company may set any day as a record date for the purpose of determining the Holders of Outstanding Securities of any series entitled to give, make or take any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided or permitted by this Indenture to be given, made or taken by Holders of Securities of such series,
provided
,
however
, that the Company may not set a record date for, and the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply with respect to, the giving or making of any notice, declaration, request or direction referred to in the next paragraph. If any record date is set pursuant to this paragraph, the Holders of Outstanding Securities of the relevant series on such record date, and no other Holders, shall be entitled to take the relevant action, whether or not such Holders remain Holders after such record date;
provided
,
however
, that no such action shall be effective hereunder unless taken on or prior to the applicable Expiration Date by Holders of the requisite aggregate principal amount of Outstanding Securities of such series on such record date. Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to prevent the Company from setting a new record date for any action for which a record date has previously been set pursuant to this paragraph (whereupon the record date previously set shall automatically and with no action by any Person be cancelled and of no effect), and nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to render ineffective any action taken by Holders of the requisite aggregate principal amount of Outstanding Securities of the relevant series on the date such action is taken. Promptly after any record date is set pursuant to this paragraph, the Company, at its own expense, shall cause notice of such record date, the proposed action by Holders and the applicable Expiration Date to be given to the Trustee in writing and to each Holder of Securities of the relevant series in the manner set forth in Section 106.
13
The Trustee may set any day as a record date for the purpose of determining the
Holders of Outstanding Securities of any series entitled to join in the giving or making of
referred to in Section 512, in each case with respect to Securities of such series. If any record date is set pursuant to this paragraph, the Holders of Outstanding Securities of such series on such record date, and no other Holders, shall be entitled to join in such notice, declaration, request or direction, whether or not such Holders remain Holders after such record date;
provided
,
however
, that no such action shall be effective hereunder unless taken on or prior to the applicable Expiration Date by Holders of the requisite aggregate principal amount of Outstanding Securities of such series on such record date. Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to prevent the Trustee from setting a new record date for any action for which a record date has previously been set pursuant to this paragraph (whereupon the record date previously set shall automatically and with no action by any Person be cancelled and of no effect), and nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to render ineffective any action taken by Holders of the requisite aggregate principal amount of Outstanding Securities of the relevant series on the date such action is taken. Promptly after any record date is set pursuant to this paragraph, the Trustee, at the Company's expense, shall cause notice of such record date, the proposed action by Holders and the applicable Expiration Date to be given to the Company in writing and to each Holder of Securities of the relevant series in the manner set forth in Section 106.
     
With respect to any record date set pursuant to this Section, the party hereto which sets such record dates may designate any day as the "Expiration Date" and from time to time may change the Expiration Date to any earlier or later day;
provided
,
however
, that no such change shall be effective unless notice of the proposed new Expiration Date is given to the other party hereto in writing, and to each Holder of Securities of the relevant series in the manner set forth in Section 106, on or prior to the existing Expiration Date. If an Expiration Date is not designated with respect to any record date set pursuant to this Section, the party hereto which set such record date shall be deemed to have initially designated the 180th day after such record date as the Expiration Date with respect thereto, subject to its right to change the Expiration Date as provided in this paragraph. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Expiration Date shall be later than the 180th day after the applicable record date.
     
Without limiting the foregoing, a Holder entitled hereunder to take any action hereunder with regard to any particular Security may do so with regard to all or any part of the principal amount of such Security or by one or more duly appointed agents each of which may do so pursuant to such appointment with regard to all or any part of such principal amount.
SECTION 105.
Notices, Etc
., to Trustee and Company.
     
Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or Act of Holders or other document provided or permitted by this Indenture to be made upon, given or furnished to, or filed with,
14
     
(1) the Trustee by any Holder or by the Company shall be sufficient for every purpose hereunder if made, given, furnished or filed in writing to or with the Trustee at its Corporate Trust Office, or
     
(2) the Company by the Trustee or by any Holder shall be sufficient for every purpose hereunder (unless otherwise herein expressly provided) if in writing and mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to the Company addressed to it at the address of its principal office specified in the first paragraph of this instrument or at any other address previously furnished in writing to the Trustee by the Company.
     
Except as otherwise expressly provided in or pursuant to this Indenture, where this Indenture or any Security provides for notice to Holders of any event, such notice shall be sufficiently given (unless otherwise herein expressly provided) if in writing and mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to each Holder affected by such event, at his address as it appears in the Security Register, not later than the latest date (if any), and not earlier than the earliest date (if any), prescribed for the giving of such notice. In any case where notice to Holders is given by mail, neither the failure to mail such notice, nor any defect in any notice so mailed, to any particular Holder shall affect the sufficiency of such notice with respect to other Holders. Where this Indenture provides for notice in any manner, such notice may be waived in writing by the Person entitled to receive such notice, either before or after the event, and such waiver shall be the equivalent of such notice. Waivers of notice by Holders shall be filed with the Trustee, but such filing shall not be a condition precedent to the validity of any action taken in reliance upon such waiver.
     
In case by reason of the suspension of regular mail service or by reason of any other cause it shall be impracticable to give such notice by mail, then such notification as shall be made with the approval of the Trustee shall constitute a sufficient notification for every purpose hereunder.
SECTION 107.
Conflict with Trust Indenture Act
.
     
If any provision hereof limits, qualifies or conflicts with a provision of the Trust Indenture Act which is required under such Act or deemed to be a part of and govern this Indenture, such required or deemed provision shall control. If any provision of this Indenture modifies or excludes any provision of the Trust Indenture Act which may be so modified or excluded, the latter provision shall be deemed to apply to this Indenture as so modified or to be excluded, as the case may be.
SECTION 108.
Effect of Headings and Table of Contents
.
     
The Article and Section headings herein and the Table of Contents are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
15
     
All covenants and agreements in this Indenture by the Company shall bind its successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not.
     
In case any provision in this Indenture or in the Securities shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
     
Nothing in this Indenture or in the Securities, express or implied, shall give to any Person, other than the parties hereto and their successors hereunder and the Holders, any benefit or any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Indenture.
     
This Indenture and the Securities shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York (including without limitation Section 5-1401 of the New York General Obligations Law or any successor to such statute). The Trustee and the Company agree to submit to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of any United States federal or state court located in the Borough of Manhattan, in The City of New York in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Indenture or the Securities.
     
The Trustee and the Company hereby knowingly, voluntarily and intentionally waive any rights they may have to a trial by jury in respect of any litigation based hereon, or arising out of, under or in connection with this Indenture or any course of conduct, course of dealing, statements (whether oral or written) or actions of the Trustee or the Company relating thereto. The Company acknowledges and agrees that it has received full and sufficient consideration for this provision and that this provision is a material inducement for the Trustee and the Holders entering into this Indenture.
     
In any case where any Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date or Stated Maturity of any Security shall not be a Business Day at any Place of Payment, then (notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture or of the Securities (other than a provision of any Security which specifically states that such provision shall apply in lieu of this Section)) payment of interest or principal (and premium, if any) need not be made at such Place of Payment on such date, but may be made on the next succeeding Business Day at such Place of Payment with the same force and effect as if made on the Interest Payment Date or Redemption Date, or at the Stated Maturity; and no interest shall accrue for the period from and after such Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date or Stated Maturity, as the case may be, if payment is made on the next succeeding Business Day.
16
SECTION 114.
No Personal Liability of Directors, Officers, Employees and Stockholders
.
     
No past, present or future director, officer, employee, incorporator, agent, stockholder or Affiliate of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, as applicable, shall have any liability for any obligations of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries under the Securities, this Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. Each Holder by accepting a Security waives and releases all such liabilities. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for issuance of the Securities.
     
(a)
General
. The Securities of each series issued initially in the form of one or more Global Securities and, together with the Trustee's certificate of authentication thereon, shall be in substantially the form set forth in Exhibit A hereto, the terms of which are incorporated in and made a part of this Indenture, or in such other form as shall be established by or pursuant to a Board Resolution or in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, in each case with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as are required or permitted by this Indenture, and may have notations, legends or endorsements required by law, stock exchange rule or usage. If the form of Securities of any series is established by action taken by or pursuant to a Board Resolution, a copy of an appropriate record of such action shall be certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company and delivered to the Trustee at or prior to the delivery of the Company Order contemplated by Section 202 for the authentication and delivery of such Securities. Each Security shall be dated the date of its authentication. The Securities shall be issuable in registered form without interest coupons and only in minimum denominations of $2,000 and any integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof.
     
(b)
Global and Definitive Securities
. Securities issued in global form shall be substantially in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto (including the Global Security Legend thereon and the "Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in the Global Security" attached thereto). Securities issued in definitive form, if any, shall be substantially in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto (but without the Global Security Legend thereon and without the "Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in the Global Security" attached thereto) and shall be printed, lithographed or engraved or produced by a combination of these methods on steel engraved borders or may be produced in any other manner, all as determined by the Officers executing such Securities, as evidenced by their execution of such Securities. Each Global Security shall represent such of the outstanding Securities as shall be specified therein and each shall provide that it shall represent the aggregate principal amount of Outstanding Securities from
17
time to time endorsed thereon and that the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Securities represented thereby may from time to time be reduced or increased, as appropriate, to reflect exchanges and redemptions. Any endorsement of a Global Security to reflect the amount of any increase or decrease in the aggregate principal amount of Outstanding Securities represented thereby shall be made by the Trustee in accordance with instructions given by the Holder thereof as required by Section 203 hereof.
SECTION 202.
Execution and Authentication
.
     
An Officer of the Company shall sign the Securities for the Company, by manual or facsimile signature.
     
If the Officer of the Company whose signature is on a Security no longer holds that office at the time such Security is authenticated, such Security shall be valid nevertheless.
     
A Security shall not be valid or obligatory, or entitled to any benefit under this Indenture, unless there appears on such Security a certificate of authentication substantially in the form provided for herein executed by the Trustee or an Authentication Agent manually or by facsimile. The signature of the Trustee on such certificate upon such Security shall be conclusive evidence, and the only evidence, that such Security has been authenticated and delivered in accordance with the terms of this Indenture and is entitled to the benefits of this Indenture.
     
The Trustee, upon a Company Order, shall authenticate and deliver Securities for original issue in an aggregate principal amount specified in such order. Such Company Order shall specify the amount of the Securities to be authenticated and the date on which the original issue of Securities is to be authenticated. The aggregate principal amount of Securities which may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture is unlimited.
     
If the form or terms of the Securities of the series have been established by or pursuant to one or more Board Resolutions as permitted by Sections 201 and 301, in authenticating such Securities, and accepting the additional responsibilities under this Indenture in relation to such Securities, the Trustee shall be entitled to receive, and (subject to Section 601) shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel stating,
     
(1) if the form of such Securities has been established by or pursuant to Board Resolution as permitted by Section 201, that such form has been established in conformity with the provisions of this Indenture;
     
(2) if the terms of such Securities have been established by or pursuant to Board Resolution as permitted by Section 301, that such terms have been established in conformity with the provisions of this Indenture; and
     
(3) that such Securities, when authenticated and delivered by the Trustee and issued by the Company in the manner and subject to any conditions specified in such
18
Opinion of Counsel, will constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company, enforceable in accordance with their terms, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium and similar laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors' rights and to general equity principles.
If such form or terms have been so established, the Trustee shall not be required to authenticate such Securities if the issue of such Securities pursuant to this Indenture will affect the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under the Securities and this Indenture or otherwise in a manner which is not reasonably acceptable to the Trustee.
     
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any Security shall have been authenticated and delivered hereunder but never issued and sold by the Company, and the Company shall deliver such Security to the Trustee for cancellation as provided in Section 306, for all purposes of this Indenture such Security shall be deemed never to have been authenticated and delivered hereunder and shall never be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture.
     
The Trustee may appoint an authenticating agent acceptable to the Company to authenticate Securities. An authenticating agent may authenticate Securities whenever the Trustee may do so. Each reference in this Indenture to authentication by the Trustee includes authentication by such agent. An authenticating agent has the same rights as an Agent to deal with Holders or an Affiliate of the Company.
     
(a)
Transfer and Exchange of Global Securities
. A Global Security may not be transferred as a whole except by the Depository to a nominee of the Depository, by a nominee of the Depository to the Depository or to another nominee of the Depository, or by the Depository or any such nominee to a successor Depository or a nominee of such successor Depository. The Company initially appoints The Depository Trust Company to act as Depository with respect to the Global Securities. Global Securities shall be exchanged by the Company for Definitive Securities if:
     
(i) the Company delivers to the Trustee notice from the Depository that it is unwilling or unable to continue to act as Depository or that it is no longer a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act and, in either case, a successor Depository is not appointed by the Company within 90 days after the date of such notice from the Depository; or
     
(ii) the Company in its sole discretion determines that the Global Securities (in whole but not in part) should be exchanged for Definitive Securities and delivers written notice to such effect to the Trustee; or
     
(iii) there shall have occurred and be continuing an Event of Default under this Indenture and the Trustee has received a request from the Depository or any Holder to issue Definitive Securities.
19
Upon the occurrence of any of the preceding events in (i) or (ii) above, the Company will notify the Trustee in writing that, upon surrender by the Participants and Indirect Participants of their interest in such Global Securities, Definitive Securities will be issued to each Person that such Participants and Indirect Participants and the Depository identify as being the beneficial owner of the related Securities. Global Securities also may be exchanged or replaced, in whole or in part, as provided in Sections 302 and 304 hereof. Except as otherwise provided above in this Section 203(a), every Security authenticated and delivered in exchange for, or in lieu of, a Global Security or any portion thereof, pursuant to this Section 203 or Section 302 or 304 hereof, shall be authenticated and delivered in the form of, and shall be, a Global Security. A Global Security may not be exchanged for another Security other than as provided in this Section 203(a), however, beneficial interests in a Global Security may be transferred and exchanged as provided in Sections 203(b),
transfer and exchange of beneficial interests in the Global Securities shall be effected through the Depository, in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture and the Applicable Procedures. Transfers of beneficial interests in the Global Securities also shall require compliance with subparagraph (i) below, as well as one or more of the other following subparagraphs, as applicable:
     
(i)
All Other Transfers and Exchanges of Beneficial Interests in Global Securities
. In connection with all transfers and exchanges of beneficial interests, the transferor of such beneficial interest must deliver to the Security Registrar either (A) (1) a written order from a Participant or an Indirect Participant given to the Depository in accordance with the Applicable Procedures directing the Depository to credit or cause to be credited a beneficial interest in another Global Security in an amount equal to the beneficial interest to be transferred or exchanged and (2) instructions given in accordance with the Applicable Procedures containing information regarding the Participant account to be credited with such increase or, if Definitive Securities are at such time permitted to be issued pursuant to this Indenture, (B) (1) a written order from a Participant or an Indirect Participant given to the Depository in accordance with the Applicable Procedures directing the Depository to cause to be issued a Definitive Security in an amount equal to the beneficial interest to be transferred or exchanged and (2) instructions given by the Depository to the Security Registrar containing information regarding the Person in whose name such Definitive Security shall be registered to effect the transfer or exchange referred to in (1) above. Upon satisfaction of all of the requirements for transfer or exchange of beneficial interests in Global Securities contained in this Indenture and the Securities or otherwise applicable under the Securities Act, the Trustee shall adjust the principal amount of the relevant Global Securities pursuant to Section 203(e) hereof.
     
(c)
Transfer and Exchange of Definitive Securities for Definitive Securities
. Upon request by a Holder of Definitive Securities and such Holder's compliance with
20
the provisions of this Section 203(c), the Security Registrar shall register the transfer or exchange of Definitive Securities. Prior to such registration of transfer or exchange, the requesting Holder shall present or surrender to the Security Registrar the Definitive Securities duly endorsed or accompanied by a written instruction of transfer in form satisfactory to the Security Registrar duly executed by such Holder or by its attorney, duly authorized in writing. The Trustee shall cancel any such Definitive Securities so surrendered, and the Company shall execute and, upon receipt of a Company Order pursuant to Section 202, the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Person designated in the instructions a new Definitive Security in the appropriate principal amount. Any Definitive Security issued pursuant to this Section 203(c) shall be registered in such name or names and in such authorized denomination or denominations as the Holder of such beneficial interest shall instruct the Security Registrar through instructions from the Depository and the Participant or Indirect Participant. The Trustee shall deliver such Definitive Securities to the Persons in whose names such Definitive Securities are so registered. In addition, the requesting Holder shall provide any additional certifications, documents and information, as applicable, required pursuant to the following provisions of this Section 203(c).
     
(d)
Legends
. The following legend shall appear on the face of all Global Securities issued under this Indenture unless specifically stated otherwise in the applicable provisions of this Indenture.
     
(i)
Global Security Legend
. Each Global Security shall bear a legend in substantially the following form:
21
     
(e)
Cancellation and/or Adjustment of Global Securities
. At such time as all beneficial interests in a particular Global Security have been exchanged for Definitive Securities or a particular Global Security has been redeemed, repurchased or canceled in whole and not in part, each such Global Security shall be returned to or retained and canceled by the Trustee in accordance with Section 306 hereof. At any time prior to such cancellation, if any beneficial interest in a Global Security is exchanged for or transferred to a Person who will take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Global Security or for Definitive Securities, the principal amount of Securities represented by such Global Security shall be reduced accordingly and an endorsement shall be made on such Global Security by the Trustee or by the Depository at the direction of the Trustee to reflect such reduction; and if the beneficial interest is being exchanged for or transferred to a Person who will take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Global Security, such other Global Security shall be increased accordingly and an endorsement shall be made on such Global Security by the Trustee or by the Depository at the direction of the Trustee to reflect such increase.
shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate Global Securities and Definitive Securities upon the Company's order or at the Security Registrar's request.
     
(ii) No service charge shall be made to a Holder of a beneficial interest in a Global Security or to a Holder of a Definitive Security for any registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any transfer tax or similar governmental charge payable in connection therewith (other than any such transfer taxes or similar governmental charge payable upon exchange or transfer pursuant to Section 302 hereof).
     
(iii) The Security Registrar shall not be required to register the transfer of or exchange any Security selected for redemption in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any Security being redeemed in part.
22
     
(iv) All Global Securities and Definitive Securities issued upon any registration of transfer or exchange of Global Securities or Definitive Securities shall be the valid and legally binding obligations of the Company, evidencing the same debt, and entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture, as the Global Securities or Definitive Securities surrendered upon such registration of transfer or exchange.
     
(v) The Company shall not be required (A) to issue, to register the transfer of or to exchange any Securities during a period beginning at the opening of business on a Business Day 15 days before the day of any selection of Securities for redemption under Section 1103 hereof and ending at the close of business on the day of selection or (B) to register the transfer of or to exchange any Security so selected for redemption in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any Security being redeemed in part or (C) to register the transfer of or to exchange a Security between a record date for the payment of interest and the next succeeding interest payment date.
     
(vi) Prior to due presentment for the registration of a transfer of any Security, the Trustee, any Agent and the Company may deem and treat the Person in whose name any Security is registered as the absolute owner of such Security for the purpose of receiving payment of principal of and interest on such Securities and for all other purposes, and none of the Trustee, any Agent or the Company shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
     
(vii) The Trustee shall authenticate Global Securities and Definitive Securities in accordance with the provisions of Section 202 hereof.
     
(viii) All certifications, certificates and Opinions of Counsel required to be submitted to the Security Registrar pursuant to this Section 203 to effect a registration of transfer or exchange may be submitted by facsimile with the original to follow by first class mail.
shall have any responsibility or obligation to any beneficial owner in a Global Security, a member of, or a participant in the Depository or other Person with respect to the accuracy of the records of the Depository or its nominee or of any participant or member thereof, with respect to any ownership interest in the Securities or with respect to the delivery to any participant, member, beneficial owner or other Person (other than the Depository) of any notice (including any notice of redemption) or the payment of any amount, under or with respect to such Securities. All notices and communications to be given to the Holders and all payments to be made to Holders under the Securities shall be given or made only to or upon the order of the registered Holders (which shall be the Depository or its nominee in the case of the Global Security). The rights of beneficial owners in the Global Security shall be exercised only through the Depository subject to
23
SECTION 301.
Amount Unlimited; Issuable in Series
.
     
The aggregate principal amount of Securities which may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture is unlimited.
     
The Securities may be issued in one or more series. There shall be established in or pursuant to a Board Resolution and, subject to Section 202, set forth, or determined in the manner provided, in an Officer's Certificate, or established in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, prior to the issuance of Securities of any series,
     
(1) the title of the Securities of the series (which shall distinguish the Securities of the series from Securities of any other series);
24
     
(2) any limit upon the aggregate principal amount of the Securities of the series which may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture (except for Securities authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, other Securities of the series pursuant to Section 302, 303, 304, 906 or 1107 and except for any Securities which, pursuant to Section 202, are deemed never to have been authenticated and delivered hereunder);
     
(3) the date or dates on which the principal of any Securities of the series is payable;
     
(4) the rate or rates at which any Securities of the series shall bear interest, the date or dates from which any such interest shall accrue, the Interest Payment Dates on which any such interest shall be payable and the Regular Record Date for any such interest payable on any Interest Payment Date;
     
(5) the place or places where the principal of and any premium and interest on any Securities of the series shall be payable;
     
(6) the period or periods within which, the price or prices at which and the terms and conditions upon which any Securities of the series may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company and, if other than by a Board Resolution, the manner in which any election by the Company to redeem the Securities shall be evidenced; and
     
(7) any other terms of the series (which terms shall not be inconsistent with the provisions of this Indenture, except as permitted by Section 901(9)).
     
All Securities of any one series shall be substantially identical as to denomination and except as may otherwise be provided in or pursuant to the Board Resolution referred to above and (subject to Section 202) set forth, or determined in the manner provided, in the Officer's Certificate referred to above or in any such indenture supplemental hereto.
     
If any of the terms of the series are established by action taken by or pursuant to a Board Resolution, a copy of an appropriate record of such action shall be certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company and delivered to the Trustee at or prior to the delivery of the Officer's Certificate setting forth the terms of the series.
     
Pending the preparation of Definitive Securities of any series, the Company may execute and, upon receipt of Company Order the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, temporary Securities which are printed, lithographed, typewritten, mimeographed or otherwise produced, in any authorized denomination, substantially of the tenor of the Definitive Securities in lieu of which they are issued and with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as the officers executing such Securities may determine, as evidenced by their execution of such Securities.
25
     
If temporary Securities of any series are issued, the Company will cause Definitive Securities of that series to be prepared without unreasonable delay. After the preparation of Definitive Securities of such series, the temporary Securities of such series shall be exchangeable for Definitive Securities of such series upon surrender of the temporary Securities of such series at the office or agency of the Company in a Place of Payment for that series, without charge to the Holder. Upon surrender for cancellation of any one or more temporary Securities of any series, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor one or more Definitive Securities of the same series, of any authorized denominations and of like tenor and aggregate principal amount. Until so exchanged, the temporary Securities of any series shall in all respects be entitled to the same rights, benefits and privileges under this Indenture as Definitive Securities of such series and tenor.
SECTION 303.
Registration, Registration of Transfer and Exchange
.
     
The Company shall cause to be kept at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee a register (the register maintained in such office or agency and in any other office or agency of the Company in a Place of Payment being herein sometimes collectively referred to as the "Security Register") in which, subject to such reasonable regulations as it may prescribe, the Company shall provide for the registration of Securities and of transfers of Securities. The Trustee is hereby appointed "Security Registrar" for the purpose of registering Securities and transfers of Securities as herein provided.
SECTION 304.
Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost and Stolen Securities
.
     
If any mutilated Security is surrendered to the Trustee, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor a new Security of the same series and of like tenor and principal amount and bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding.
     
If there shall be delivered to the Company and the Trustee (i) evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of any Security and (ii) such security or indemnity as may be required by them to save each of them and any agent of either of them harmless, then, in the absence of notice to the Company or the Trustee that such Security has been acquired by a bona fide purchaser, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in lieu of any such destroyed, lost or stolen Security, a new Security of the same series and of like tenor and principal amount and bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding.
     
In case any such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security has become or is about to become due and payable, the Company in its discretion may, instead of issuing a new Security, pay such Security.
     
Upon the issuance of any new Security under this Section, the Company may require the payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in relation thereto and any other expenses (including the fees and expenses of the Trustee) connected therewith.
     
Every new Security of any series issued pursuant to this Section in lieu of any destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall constitute an original additional contractual obligation of the Company, whether or not the destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall be at any time enforceable by anyone, and shall be entitled to all the benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately with any and all other Securities of that series duly issued hereunder.
     
The provisions of this Section are exclusive and shall preclude (to the extent lawful) all other rights and remedies with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities.
SECTION 305.
Payment of Interest; Interest Rights Preserved
.
     
Interest on any Security which is payable, and is punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date shall be paid to the Person in whose name that Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest.
     
Any interest on any Security of any series which is payable, but is not punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date, or on the next succeeding Business Day as provided in Section 113 (herein called "Defaulted Interest"), shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on the relevant Regular Record Date by virtue of having been such Holder, and such Defaulted Interest may be paid by the Company, at its election in each case, as provided in Clause (1) or (2) below:
     
(1) The Company may elect to make payment of any Defaulted Interest to the Persons in whose names the Securities of such series (or their respective Predecessor Securities) are registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest, which shall be fixed in the following manner. The Company shall notify the Trustee in writing of the amount of Defaulted Interest proposed to be paid on each Security of such series and the date of the proposed payment, and at the same time the Company shall deposit with the Trustee an amount of money equal to the aggregate amount proposed to be paid in respect of such Defaulted Interest or shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for such deposit prior to the date of the proposed payment, such money when deposited to be held in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such Defaulted Interest as in this Clause provided. Thereupon the Trustee shall fix a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest which shall be not more than 15 days and not less than 10 days prior to the date of the proposed payment and not less than 10 days after the receipt by the Trustee of the notice of the proposed payment. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company of such Special Record Date and, in the name and at the expense of the Company, shall cause notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefor to be given to each Holder of Securities of such series in the manner set forth in Section 106, not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date. Notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefor having been so mailed, such Defaulted Interest shall be paid to the Persons in whose names the Securities of such series (or
their respective Predecessor Securities) are registered at the close of business on such Special Record Date and shall no longer be payable pursuant to the following Clause (2).
     
(2) The Company may make payment of any Defaulted Interest on the Securities of any series in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which such Securities may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, if, after notice given by the Company to the Trustee of the proposed payment pursuant to this Clause, such manner of payment shall be deemed practicable by the Trustee.
     
Subject to the foregoing provisions of this Section, each Security delivered under this Indenture upon registration of transfer of or in exchange for or in lieu of any other Security shall carry the rights to interest accrued and unpaid, and to accrue, which were carried by such other Security.
     
All Securities surrendered for payment, redemption, repurchase, registration of transfer or exchange shall, if surrendered to any Person other than the Trustee, be delivered to the Trustee and, if not already cancelled, shall be promptly cancelled by it. The Company may at any time deliver to the Trustee for cancellation any Securities previously authenticated and delivered hereunder which the Company may have acquired in any manner whatsoever, and may deliver to the Trustee (or to any other Person for delivery to the Trustee) for cancellation any Securities previously authenticated hereunder which the Company has not issued and sold, and all Securities so delivered shall be promptly cancelled by the Trustee. No Securities shall be authenticated in lieu of or in exchange for any Securities cancelled as provided in this Section, except as expressly permitted by this Indenture. All cancelled Securities held by the Trustee shall be disposed in accordance with the Trustee's then customary procedures. If requested by the Company, certification of the disposition of all cancelled Securities shall be delivered to the Company.
     
Unless otherwise provided as contemplated in Section 301, interest on the Securities of each series shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
     
The Company in issuing the Securities may use "CUSIP" and/or other similar numbers (if then generally in use), and, if so, the Trustee shall use "CUSIP" and/or such other numbers in notices of redemption or exchange as a convenience to Holders;
provided
that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Securities or as contained in any notice of a redemption or exchange and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Securities, and any such redemption shall not be
28
affected by any defect in or omission of such numbers. The Company will promptly notify the Trustee of any change in the "CUSIP" and/or such other numbers.
SECTION 401.
Satisfaction and Discharge of Indenture
.
     
As to all Outstanding Securities of any series, this Indenture will be discharged and will cease to be of further effect (except as to any surviving rights of registration of transfer or exchange of Securities herein expressly provided for) and the Trustee, at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture when:
29
     
(2) the Company has paid or caused to be paid all other sums payable under this Indenture by the Company with respect to the Securities of such series; and
     
(3) the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officer's Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel stating that all conditions precedent under this Indenture relating to the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture with respect to the Securities of such series have been complied with.
     
Notwithstanding the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture with respect to the Outstanding Securities of any series, the obligations of the Company to the Trustee under Section 607, the obligations of the Trustee to any Authenticating Agent under Section 614 and, if money shall have been deposited with the Trustee pursuant to subclause (B) of clause (1) of this Section, the obligations of the Trustee under Section 402 and the last paragraph of Section 1003 shall survive.
     
Subject to the provisions of the last paragraph of Section 1003, all money deposited with the Trustee pursuant to Section 401 shall be held in trust and applied by it, in accordance with the provisions of the Securities and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Company acting as its own Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the Persons entitled thereto, of the principal and any premium and interest for whose payment such money has been deposited with the Trustee.
     
Each of the following constitutes an "Event of Default" with respect to Securities of any series (whatever the reason for such Event of Default and whether it shall be voluntary or involuntary or be effected by operation of law or pursuant to any judgment, decree or order of any court or any order, rule or regulation of any administrative or governmental body):
     
(a) the failure to pay interest on any Security of such series when the same becomes due and payable and the default continues for a period of 30 days;
     
(b) the failure to pay the principal (or premium if any) of any Security of such series, when such principal becomes due and payable, at its Stated Maturity, upon acceleration, upon redemption or otherwise (including the failure to make a payment to purchase Securities of such series tendered pursuant to a Change of Control Offer);
30
     
(c) a default in the performance, or breach, of the obligations of the Company under Section 801 of this Indenture;
     
(d) a default in the observance or performance of any other covenant or agreement contained in this Indenture which default continues for a period of 60 days after the Company receives written notice specifying the default (and demanding that such default be remedied) from the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% of the Outstanding aggregate principal amount of the Securities of such series;
     
(e) (i) a failure by the Company to make any payment, at the stated maturity, on any Indebtedness of the Company (other than Indebtedness owing to any of its Subsidiaries) in an amount in excess of $75.0 million or its foreign currency equivalent at the time outstanding under or evidenced by any single indenture or instrument, whether such Indebtedness now exists or shall hereafter be created, and such failure shall have continued after any applicable grace period or (ii) a Default on any Indebtedness of the Company (other than Indebtedness owing to any of its Subsidiaries), whether such Indebtedness now exists or shall hereafter be created, which Default results in such Indebtedness being accelerated or otherwise declared due and payable prior to the stated maturity thereof in an amount in excess of $75.0 million or its foreign currency equivalent at the time, in the case of each of clauses (i) and (ii) above, without such Indebtedness having been discharged or the acceleration having been cured, waived, rescinded or annulled;
provided
,
however
, that if any failure, Default or acceleration referred to in clauses (i) or (ii) ceases or is cured, waived, rescinded or annulled, then the Event of Default shall be deemed cured;
     
(g) a court of competent jurisdiction enters an order or decree under any Bankruptcy Law that:
     
(i) is for relief in an involuntary case against the Company or any Significant Subsidiary of the Company;
     
(ii) appoints a custodian or receiver of the Company or any Significant Subsidiary or for all or substantially all of the property of any of the foregoing;
31
SECTION 502.
Acceleration of Maturity; Rescission and Annulment
.
     
If an Event of Default (other than an Event of Default specified in Section 501(f) or 501(g)) with respect to Securities of any series at the time Outstanding occurs and is continuing, then in every such case the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series may declare the aggregate principal amount of all the Securities of that series to be due and payable immediately, by a notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if given by Holders), which notice shall specify the respective Event of Default and that it is a "notice of acceleration" and upon any such declaration such aggregate principal amount (or specified amount) shall become immediately due and payable. If an Event of Default specified in Section 501(f) or 501(g) with respect to Securities of any series at the time Outstanding occurs, the aggregate principal amount of all the Securities of that series shall automatically, and without any declaration or other action on the part of the Trustee or any Holder, become immediately due and payable.
     
At any time after such a declaration of acceleration with respect to Securities of any series has been made and before a judgment or decree for payment of the money due has been obtained by the Trustee as hereinafter in this Article provided, the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series, by written notice to the Company and the Trustee, may rescind and annul such declaration and its consequences if
nonpayment of principal or interest that has become due solely because of the acceleration;
     
(3) to the extent the payment of such interest is lawful, if interest on overdue installments of interest and overdue principal (and premium, if any), which has become due otherwise than by such declaration of acceleration, has been paid;
     
(4) the Company has paid the Trustee its reasonable compensation and reimbursed the Trustee for its expenses, disbursements and advances; and
     
(5) in the event of the cure or waiver of an Event of Default of the type described in Section 501(f) or 501(g), the Trustee shall have received an Officer's Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel that such Event of Default has been cured or waived.
     
No such rescission shall affect any subsequent Event of Default or impair any right consequent thereto.
32
SECTION 503.
Collection of Indebtedness and Suits for Enforcement by Trustee
.
     
(1) Default is made in the payment of any interest on a Security of any series when such interest becomes due and payable and such Default continues for a period of 30 days, or
     
(2) Default is made in the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any, on) a Security of any series at the Maturity thereof,
and such Default is continuing, the Company will, upon demand of the Trustee, pay to the Trustee, for the benefit of the Holders of Securities of such series, the whole amount then due and payable on Securities of such series for principal and any premium and interest and, to the extent that payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable, interest on any overdue principal and premium, if any, and on any overdue interest, at the rate or rates prescribed therefor in Securities of such series, and, in addition thereto, such further amount as shall be sufficient to cover the costs and expenses of collection, including the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and all other amounts due the Trustee under Section 607.
     
If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of any series occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may in its discretion proceed to protect and enforce its rights and the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series by such appropriate judicial proceedings as the Trustee shall deem most effectual to protect and enforce any such rights, whether for the specific enforcement of any covenant or agreement in this Indenture or in aid of the exercise of any power granted herein, or to enforce any other proper remedy.
SECTION 504.
Trustee May File Proofs of Claim
.
     
In case of any judicial proceeding relative to the Company (or any other obligor upon the Securities of any series), its property or its creditors, the Trustee shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise, to take any and all actions authorized under the Trust Indenture Act in order to have claims of the Holders and the Trustee (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and all other amounts due the Trustee under Section 607) allowed in any such proceeding. In particular, the Trustee shall be authorized to collect and receive any moneys or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same; and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder to make such payments to the Trustee and, in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Holders, to pay to the Trustee any amount due it for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 607.
33
     
No provision of this Indenture shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Holder any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Securities of any series or the rights of any Holder thereof or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder in any such proceeding;
provided
,
however
, that the Trustee may, on behalf of the Holders, vote for the election of a trustee in bankruptcy or similar official and be a member of a creditors' or other similar committee.
SECTION 505.
Trustee May Enforce Claims Without Possession of Securities
.
     
All rights of action and claims under this Indenture or the Securities may be prosecuted and enforced by the Trustee without the possession of any of the Securities or the production thereof in any proceeding relating thereto, and any such proceeding instituted by the Trustee shall be brought in its own name as trustee of an express trust, and any recovery of judgment shall, after provision for the payment of the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, be for the ratable benefit of the Holders of the Securities in respect of which such judgment has been recovered.
SECTION 506.
Application of Money Collected
.
     
Any money collected by the Trustee pursuant to this Article and, after an Event of Default, any money or other property distributable in respect of the Company's obligations under this Indenture, shall be applied in the following order, at the date or dates fixed by the Trustee and, in case of the distribution of such money on account of principal or any premium or interest, upon presentation of the Securities and the notation thereon of the payment if only partially paid and upon surrender thereof if fully paid:
     
FIRST: To the payment of all amounts due the Trustee (including any predecessor Trustee) under Section 607;
     
SECOND: To the payment of the amounts then due and unpaid for principal of and any premium and interest on the Securities in respect of which or for the benefit of which such money has been collected, ratably, without preference or priority of any kind, according to the amounts due and payable on such Securities for principal and any premium and interest, respectively; and
     
THIRD: To the Company or to such party as a court of competent jurisdiction shall direct.
     
The Trustee may fix a record date for the payment of any amounts to Holders pursuant to this Section.
     
No Holder of any Security of any series shall have any right to institute any proceeding, judicial or otherwise, with respect to this Indenture, or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee, or for any other remedy hereunder, unless
34
     
(1) such Holder has previously given written notice to the Trustee of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the Securities of that series;
     
(2) the Holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of such Event of Default in its own name as Trustee hereunder;
     
(3) such Holder or Holders have offered to the Trustee indemnity or security reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee against the costs, expenses and liabilities to be incurred in compliance with such request;
     
(4) the Trustee for 60 days after its receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity has failed to institute any such proceeding; and
     
(5) no direction inconsistent with such written request has been given to the Trustee during such 60-day period by the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series;
it being understood and intended that no one or more of such Holders shall have any right in any manner whatever by virtue of, or by availing of, any provision of this Indenture to affect, disturb or prejudice the rights of any other of such Holders, or to obtain or to seek to obtain priority or preference over any other of such Holders or to enforce any right under this Indenture, except in the manner herein provided and for the equal and ratable benefit of all of such Holders.
SECTION 508.
Unconditional Right of Holders to Receive Principal, Premium and Interest
.
     
Notwithstanding any other provision in this Indenture, the Holder of a Security of any series shall have the right, which is absolute and unconditional, to receive payment of the principal of and any premium and (subject to Section 305) interest on such Security on the respective Stated Maturities expressed in such Security (or, in the case of redemption, on the Redemption Date) and to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment, and such rights shall not be impaired without the consent of such Holder.
SECTION 509.
Restoration of Rights and Remedies
.
     
If the Trustee or any Holder has instituted any proceeding to enforce any right or remedy under this Indenture and such proceeding has been discontinued or abandoned for any reason, or has been determined adversely to the Trustee or to such Holder, then and in every such case, subject to any determination in such proceeding, the Company, the Trustee and the Holders shall be restored severally and respectively to their former positions hereunder and thereafter all rights and remedies of the Trustee and the Holders shall continue as though no such proceeding had been instituted.
SECTION 510.
Rights and Remedies Cumulative
.
     
Except as otherwise provided with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities in the last paragraph of Section 304, no right or remedy herein conferred upon or reserved to the Trustee or to the Holders is intended to be exclusive of any other right or remedy, and every right and remedy shall, to the extent permitted by law, be cumulative and in addition to every other right and remedy given hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or otherwise. The assertion or employment of any right or remedy hereunder, or otherwise, shall not prevent the concurrent assertion or employment of any other appropriate right or remedy.
SECTION 511.
Delay or Omission Not Waiver
.
     
No delay or omission of the Trustee or of any Holder of Securities of any series to exercise any right or remedy accruing upon any Event of Default shall impair any such right or remedy or constitute a waiver of any such Event of Default or an acquiescence therein. Every right and remedy given by this Article or by law to the Trustee or to the Holders may be exercised from time to time, and as often as may be deemed expedient, by the Trustee or by the Holders, as the case may be.
     
The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series shall have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee, with respect to the Securities of such series,
provided
,
however
, that
     
(1) such direction shall not be in conflict with any rule of law or with this Indenture;
     
The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series may on behalf of the Holders of all the Securities of such series waive any existing or past Default or Event of Default under this Indenture, and its consequences, except a default in the payment of the principal of or interest on any Securities of such series. Upon any such waiver, such Default shall cease to exist, and any Event of Default arising therefrom shall be deemed to have been cured for every purpose of this Indenture; but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other Default or impair any right consequent thereon.
36
     
In any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture, or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken, suffered or omitted by it as Trustee, a court may require any party litigant in such suit to file an undertaking to pay the costs of such suit, and may assess costs against any such party litigant, in the manner and to the extent provided in the Trust Indenture Act;
provided
,
however
, that neither this Section nor the Trust Indenture Act shall be deemed to authorize any court to require such an undertaking or to make such an assessment in any suit instituted by the Company.
SECTION 515.
Waiver of Usury, Stay or Extension Laws
.
     
The Company covenants (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) that it will not at any time insist upon, or plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any usury, stay or extension law wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, which may affect the covenants or the performance of this Indenture; and the Company (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such law and covenants that it will not hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Trustee, but will suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law had been enacted.
SECTION 601.
Certain Duties and Responsibilities
.
     
(1) Except during the continuance of an Event of Default with respect to any series of Securities,
     
(A) the Trustee undertakes to perform such duties and only such duties as are specifically set forth in this Indenture with respect to the Securities of such series, and no implied covenants or obligations shall be read into this Indenture against the Trustee; and
     
(B) in the absence of bad faith on its part, the Trustee may conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon certificates or opinions furnished to the Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Indenture, but in the case of any such certificates or opinions which by any provision hereof are specifically required to be furnished to the Trustee, subject to the provisions of Section 102, the Trustee shall be under a duty to examine the same to determine whether or not they conform to the requirements of this Indenture.
     
(2) In case an Event of Default with respect to any series of Securities has occurred and is continuing, the Trustee shall exercise with respect to the Securities of such series such of the rights and powers vested in it by this Indenture, and use the
37
same degree of care and skill in their exercise, as a prudent person would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of his or her own affairs.
     
(3) No provision of this Indenture shall be construed to relieve the Trustee from liability for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act or its own willful misconduct, except that
     
(A) this Subsection shall not be construed to limit the effect of Subsections (1) and (4) of this Section;
     
(B) the Trustee shall not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by a Responsible Officer, unless it shall be proved that the Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts; and
     
(C) the Trustee shall not be liable with respect to any action taken or omitted to be taken by it in good faith in accordance with the direction of the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series relating to the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred upon the Trustee, under this Indenture with respect to the Securities of such series.
     
(4) Notwithstanding the foregoing, no provision of this Indenture shall require the Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability in the performance of any of its duties hereunder, or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers, if it shall have reasonable grounds for believing that repayment of such funds or adequate indemnity against such risk or liability is not reasonably assured to it.
     
(5) Whether or not therein expressly so provided, every provision of this Indenture relating to the conduct or affecting the liability of or affording protection to the Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of this Section.
     
If a Default occurs hereunder with respect to Securities of any series, the Trustee shall give the Holders of Securities of such series notice of such Default as and to the extent provided by the Trust Indenture Act;
provided
,
however
, that in the case of any Default of the character specified in Section 501(d) with respect to Securities of such series, no such notice to Holders shall be given until at least 30 days after the occurrence thereof. Except in the case of a Default or Event of Default in payment of principal of, premium, if any, or interest on a Security of any series, the Trustee may withhold such notice if and so long as a committee of its Responsible Officers in good faith determines that withholding the notice is in the interest of the Holders of Securities of such series.
38
     
(1) the Trustee may conclusively rely and shall be fully protected in acting or refraining from acting upon any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper party or parties;
     
(2) any request or direction of the Company mentioned herein shall be sufficiently evidenced by a Company Request or Company Order and an Officer's Certificate and Opinion of Counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee, and any resolution of the Board of Directors shall be sufficiently evidenced by a Board Resolution;
     
(3) whenever in the administration of this Indenture the Trustee shall deem it desirable that a matter be proved or established prior to taking, suffering or omitting any action hereunder, the Trustee (unless other evidence be herein specifically prescribed) may, in the absence of bad faith on its part, conclusively rely upon an Officer's Certificate;
     
(4) the Trustee may consult with counsel of its selection and the advice of such counsel or any Opinion of Counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it hereunder in good faith and in reliance thereon;
     
(5) the Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Indenture at the request or direction of any of the Holders pursuant to this Indenture, unless such Holders shall have offered to the Trustee security or indemnity reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee against the costs, expenses and liabilities which might be incurred by it in compliance with such request or direction;
     
(6) the Trustee shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document, but the Trustee, in its discretion, may make such further inquiry or investigation into such facts or matters as it may see fit, and, if the Trustee shall determine to make such further inquiry or investigation, it shall be entitled to examine the books, records and premises of the Company, personally or by agent or attorney;
     
(7) the Trustee may execute any of the trusts or powers hereunder or perform any duties hereunder either directly or by or through agents or attorneys and the Trustee shall not be responsible for any misconduct or negligence on the part of any agent or attorney appointed with due care by it hereunder,
39
     
(8) the Trustee shall not be liable for any action taken, suffered, or omitted to be taken by it in good faith and reasonably believed by it to be authorized or within the discretion or rights or powers conferred upon it by this Indenture;
     
(9) the Trustee shall not be deemed to have notice or be charged with knowledge of any Default (within the meaning of Section 602) or Event of Default with respect to the Securities of any series for which it is acting as Trustee unless written notice of such Default or Event of Default, as the case may be, is received by the Trustee at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee from the Company, any other obligor upon such Securities or by any Holder of such Securities, and such notice references such Securities and this Indenture;
     
(10) the rights, privileges, protections, immunities and benefits given to the Trustee, including, without limitation, its right to be indemnified, are extended to, and shall be enforceable by, the Trustee in each of its capacities hereunder, and each agent, custodian and other Person employed to act hereunder;
     
(11) the Trustee may request that the Company deliver an Officer's Certificate setting forth the names of individuals and/or titles of officers authorized at such time to take specified actions pursuant to this Indenture, which Officer's Certificate may be signed by any persons authorized to sign an Officer's Certificate, including any person specified as so authorized in any such certificate previously delivered and not superseded;
     
(12) the permissive right of the Trustee hereunder to take or omit to take any action shall not be construed as a duty; and
     
(13) anything in this Indenture notwithstanding, in no event shall the Trustee be liable for special, indirect, punitive or consequential loss or damage of any kind whatsoever (including but not limited to loss of profit), even if the Company has been advised as to the likelihood of such loss or damage and regardless of the form of action.
SECTION 604.
Not Responsible for Recitals or Issuance of Securities
.
     
The recitals contained herein and in the Securities, except the Trustee's certificates of authentication, shall be taken as the statements of the Company, and neither the Trustee nor any Authenticating Agent assumes any responsibility for their correctness. The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this Indenture or of the Securities. Neither the Trustee nor any Authenticating Agent shall be accountable for the use or application by the Company of Securities or the proceeds thereof.
     
The Trustee, any Authenticating Agent, any Paying Agent, any Security Registrar or any other agent of the Company, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Securities and, subject to Sections 608 and 613, may otherwise
40
deal with the Company with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee, Authenticating Agent, Paying Agent, Security Registrar or such other agent.
     
Subject to the provisions of Section 1003 hereof, money held by the Trustee in trust hereunder need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law. The Trustee shall be under no liability for interest on, or for the investment of, any money received by it hereunder except as otherwise agreed in writing with the Company.
SECTION 607.
Compensation and Reimbursement
.
     
(1) to pay to the Trustee from time to time such compensation as shall be agreed in writing between the Company and the Trustee for all services rendered by it hereunder (which compensation shall not be limited by any provision of law in regard to the compensation of a trustee of an express trust);
     
(2) except as otherwise expressly provided herein, to reimburse the Trustee upon its request for all reasonable expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by the Trustee in accordance with any provision of this Indenture (including the reasonable compensation and the expenses and disbursements of its agents and counsel), except any such expense, disbursement or advance as may be attributable to its gross negligence or willful misconduct; and
     
(3) to the fullest extent permitted by law, to indemnify each of the Trustee, or any predecessor Trustee, and their respective officers, employees, directors, shareholders and agents, for, and to hold them harmless against, any and all loss, damage, claim, liability or expense, including taxes (other than taxes based upon, measured by or determined by the income of the Trustee or any predecessor Trustee), incurred without gross negligence or willful misconduct on its part, arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of the trusts and its duties under this Indenture, including the enforcement of this provision, including the reasonable costs and expenses of defending (including the reasonable compensation and the expense and disbursements of its agents and counsel) themselves against any claim or liability in connection with the exercise or performance of any of its powers or duties hereunder.
     
As security for the performance of the obligations of the Company under this Section, the Trustee shall have a lien prior to the Securities upon all property and funds held or collected by the Trustee as such, other than funds held in trust under Section 402.
     
In addition and without prejudice to the rights provided to the Trustee under any of the provisions of this Indenture, when the Trustee incurs expenses or renders services in connection with an Event of Default specified in Section 501(f) or Section 501(g), the expenses (including the reasonable charges and expenses of its counsel) and the
41
compensation for the services are intended to constitute expenses of administration under any applicable Federal and State bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law.
     
The Company's obligations under this Section 607 and the lien referred to in this Section 607 shall survive the resignation or removal of the Trustee, the discharge of the Company's obligations under Articles Four and Thirteen of this Indenture and/or the termination of this Indenture.
     
"Trustee" for purposes of this Section 607 shall include any predecessor Trustee;
provided
,
however
, that the negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct of any Trustee hereunder shall not affect the rights of any other Trustee hereunder.
     
If the Trustee has or shall acquire a conflicting interest within the meaning of Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act, the Trustee shall eliminate such interest, apply to the Commission for permission to continue as trustee or resign, to the extent and in the manner provided by, and subject to the provisions of, the Trust Indenture Act and this Indenture. To the extent permitted by the Trust Indenture Act, the Trustee shall not be deemed to have a conflicting interest by virtue of being a trustee under this Indenture, in its capacity as trustee in respect of the Securities of any series, in its capacity as trustee in respect of the Securities of any other series, or under any other indenture or indentures under which other securities, or certificates of interest or participation in other securities, of the Company are outstanding. Nothing herein shall prevent the Trustee from filing with the Commission the application referred to in the second to last paragraph of Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act.
SECTION 609.
Corporate Trustee Required; Eligibility
.
     
There shall at all times be one (and only one) Trustee hereunder with respect to the Securities of each series, which may be Trustee hereunder for Securities of one or more other series. Each Trustee shall be a Person that is eligible pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act to act as such and has a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000 and has its Corporate Trust Office in the United States of America. If any such Person publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of its supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this Section and to the extent permitted by the Trust Indenture Act, the combined capital and surplus of such Person shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. If at any time the Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, it shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect hereinafter specified in this Article.
SECTION 610.
Resignation and Removal; Appointment of Successor
.
     
No resignation or removal of the Trustee and no appointment of a successor Trustee pursuant to this Article shall become effective until the acceptance of
42
appointment by the successor Trustee in accordance with the applicable requirements of Section 611.
     
The Trustee may resign at any time with respect to the Securities of one or more series by giving written notice thereof to the Company. If the instrument of acceptance by a successor Trustee required by Section 611 shall not have been delivered to the Trustee within 30 days after the giving of such notice of resignation, the resigning Trustee may, at the expense of the Company, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series.
     
The Trustee may be removed at any time with respect to the Securities of any series by Act of the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series, delivered to the Trustee and to the Company. If the instrument of acceptance by a successor Trustee required by Section 611 shall not have been delivered to the Trustee within 30 days after the Trustee's receipt of such notice of removal, the departing Trustee may, at the expense of the Company, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series.
     
(1) the Trustee shall fail to comply with Section 608 after written request therefor by the Company or by any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security for at least six months, or
     
(2) the Trustee shall cease to be eligible under Section 609 and shall fail to resign after written request therefor by the Company or by any such Holder, or
     
(3) the Trustee shall become incapable of acting or shall be adjudged a bankrupt or insolvent or a receiver of the Trustee or of its property shall be appointed or any public officer shall take charge or control of the Trustee or of its property or affairs for the purpose of rehabilitation, conservation or liquidation,
then, in any such case, (A) the Company by a Board Resolution may remove the Trustee with respect to all Securities, or (B) subject to Section 514, any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security for at least six months may, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee with respect to all Securities and the appointment of a successor Trustee or Trustees.
     
If the Trustee shall resign, be removed or become incapable of acting, or if a vacancy shall occur in the office of Trustee for any cause, with respect to the Securities of one or more series, the Company, by a Board Resolution, shall promptly appoint a successor Trustee or Trustees with respect to the Securities of that or those series (it being understood that any such successor Trustee may be appointed with respect to the Securities of one or more or all of such series and that at any time there shall be only one Trustee with respect to the Securities of any particular series) and shall comply with the applicable requirements of Section 611. If, within one year after such resignation,
43
removal or incapability, or the occurrence of such vacancy, a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series shall be appointed by Act of the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series delivered to the Company and the retiring Trustee, the successor Trustee so appointed shall, forthwith upon its acceptance of such appointment in accordance with the applicable requirements of Section 611, become the successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series and to that extent supersede the successor Trustee appointed by the Company. If no successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series shall have been so appointed by the Company or the Holders and accepted appointment in the manner required by Section 611, any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security of such series for at least six months may, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series.
     
The Company shall give notice of each resignation and each removal of the Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series and each appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series to all Holders of Securities of such series in the manner provided in Section 106. Each notice shall include the name of the successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series and the address of its Corporate Trust Office.
SECTION 611.
Acceptance of Appointment by Successor
.
     
In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor Trustee with respect to all Securities, every such successor Trustee so appointed shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to the Company and to the retiring Trustee an instrument accepting such appointment, and thereupon the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective and such successor Trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee; but, on the request of the Company or the successor Trustee, such retiring Trustee shall, upon payment of its reasonable charges, if any, execute and deliver an instrument transferring to such successor Trustee all the rights, powers and trusts of the retiring Trustee and shall duly assign, transfer and deliver to such successor Trustee all property and money held by such retiring Trustee hereunder; subject, nevertheless, to its lien provided for in Section 607.
     
In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more (but not all) series, the Company, the retiring Trustee and each successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more series shall execute and deliver an indenture supplemental hereto wherein each successor Trustee shall accept such appointment and which (1) shall contain such provisions as shall be necessary or desirable to transfer and confirm to, and to vest in, each successor Trustee all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates, (2) if the retiring Trustee is not retiring with respect to all Securities, shall contain such provisions as shall be deemed necessary or desirable to confirm that all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series as to which the
retiring Trustee is not retiring shall continue to be vested in the retiring Trustee, and (3) shall add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary, to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one Trustee, it being understood that nothing herein or in such supplemental indenture shall constitute such Trustees co-trustees of the same trust and that each such Trustee shall be trustee of a trust or trusts hereunder separate and apart from any trust or trusts hereunder administered by any other such Trustee; and upon the execution and delivery of such supplemental indenture the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective to the extent provided therein and each such successor Trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates; but, on request of the Company or any successor Trustee, such retiring Trustee shall duly assign, transfer and deliver to such successor Trustee all property and money held by such retiring Trustee hereunder with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates; subject, nevertheless, to its lien provided for in Section 607.
     
Upon request of any such successor Trustee, the Company shall execute any and all instruments for more fully and certainly vesting in and confirming to such successor Trustee all such rights, powers and trusts referred to in the first or second preceding paragraph, as the case may be.
     
No successor Trustee with respect to any series of Securities shall accept its appointment unless at the time of such acceptance such successor Trustee shall be qualified and eligible with respect to that series under this Article.
SECTION 612.
Merger, Conversion, Consolidation or Succession to Business
.
     
Any Person into which the Trustee may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any Person resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which the Trustee shall be a party, or any Person succeeding to all or substantially all the corporate trust business of the Trustee, shall be the successor of the Trustee hereunder, provided such Person shall be otherwise qualified and eligible under this Article, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of any of the parties hereto. In case any Securities shall have been authenticated, but not delivered, by the Trustee then in office, any successor by merger, conversion or consolidation to such authenticating Trustee may adopt such authentication and deliver the Securities so authenticated with the same effect as if such successor Trustee had itself authenticated such Securities.
SECTION 613.
Preferential Collection of Claims Against Company
.
     
If and when the Trustee shall be or become a creditor of the Company (or any other obligor upon the Securities), the Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act regarding the collection of claims against the Company (or any such other obligor).
SECTION 614.
Appointment of Authenticating Agent
.
     
The Trustee may appoint an Authenticating Agent or Agents with respect to one or more series of Securities which shall be authorized to act on behalf of the Trustee to authenticate Securities of such series issued upon original issue and upon exchange, registration of transfer or partial redemption thereof or pursuant to Section 304, and Securities so authenticated shall be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture and shall be valid and obligatory for all purposes as if authenticated by the Trustee hereunder. Wherever reference is made in this Indenture to the authentication and delivery of Securities by the Trustee or the Trustee's certificate of authentication, such reference shall be deemed to include authentication and delivery on behalf of the Trustee by an Authenticating Agent and a certificate of authentication executed on behalf of the Trustee by an Authenticating Agent. Each Authenticating Agent shall be acceptable to the Company and shall at all times be a corporation organized and doing business under the laws of the United States of America, any State thereof or the District of Columbia, authorized under such laws to act as Authenticating Agent, having a combined capital and surplus of not less than $50,000,000 and subject to supervision or examination by Federal or State authority. If such Authenticating Agent publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of said supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this Section, the combined capital and surplus of such Authenticating Agent shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. If at any time an Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, such Authenticating Agent shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect specified in this Section.
     
Any corporation into which an Authenticating Agent may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which such Authenticating Agent shall be a party, or any corporation succeeding to all or substantially all of the corporate agency or corporate trust business of an Authenticating Agent, shall continue to be an Authenticating Agent, provided such corporation shall be otherwise eligible under this Section, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of the Trustee or the Authenticating Agent.
     
An Authenticating Agent may resign at any time by giving written notice thereof to the Trustee and to the Company. The Trustee may at any time terminate the agency of an Authenticating Agent by giving written notice thereof to such Authenticating Agent and to the Company. Upon receiving such a notice of resignation or upon such a termination, or in case at any time such Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, the Trustee may appoint a successor Authenticating Agent which shall be acceptable to the Company and shall give notice of such appointment in the manner provided in Section 106 to all Holders of Securities of the series with respect to which such Authenticating Agent will serve. Any successor Authenticating Agent upon acceptance of its appointment hereunder shall become vested with all the rights, powers and duties of its predecessor hereunder, with like effect as if
originally named as an Authenticating Agent. No successor Authenticating Agent shall be appointed unless eligible under the provisions of this Section.
     
The Trustee agrees to pay to each Authenticating Agent from time to time reasonable compensation for its services under this Section, and the Trustee shall be entitled to be reimbursed for such payments, subject to the provisions of Section 607.
     
If an appointment with respect to one or more series is made pursuant to this Section, the Securities of such series may have endorsed thereon, in addition to the Trustee's certificate of authentication, an alternative certificate of authentication in the following form:
     
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
SECTION 701.
Company to Furnish Trustee Names and Addresses of Holders
.
The Company will furnish or cause to be furnished to the Trustee
     
(1) semi-annually, not later than March 1 and September 1 in each year, commencing September 1, 2008, a list, in such form as the Trustee may reasonably require, of the names and addresses of the Holders of Securities of each series as of the preceding March 1 or September 1, as the case may be, and
     
(2) at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing, within 30 days after the receipt by the Company of any such request, a list of similar form and content as of a date not more than 15 days prior to the time such list is furnished;
in each case to the extent (and only to the extent) such information is known to the Company and
excluding
from any such list names and addresses received by the Trustee in its capacity as Security Registrar.
47
SECTION 702.
Preservation of Information; Communications to Holders
.
     
The Trustee shall preserve, in as current a form as is reasonably practicable, the names and addresses of Holders contained in the most recent list furnished to the Trustee as provided in Section 701 and the names and addresses of Holders received by the Trustee in its capacity as Security Registrar. The Trustee may destroy any list furnished to it as provided in Section 701 upon receipt of a new list so furnished.
     
The rights of Holders to communicate with other Holders with respect to their rights under this Indenture or under the Securities, and the corresponding rights and privileges of the Trustee, shall be as provided by the Trust Indenture Act.
     
Every Holder of Securities, by receiving and holding the same, agrees with the Company and the Trustee that neither the Company nor the Trustee nor any agent of either of them shall be held accountable by reason of any disclosure of information as to names and addresses of Holders made pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act.
     
So long as any Securities remain outstanding, the Trustee shall transmit to Holders such reports concerning the Trustee and its actions under this Indenture as may be required pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act at the times and in the manner provided pursuant thereto. If required by Section 313(a) of the Trust Indenture Act, the Trustee shall, within sixty days after each September 1 following the date of this Indenture deliver to Holders a brief report, dated as of such September 1, which complies with the provisions of such Section 313(a) (but if no event described in Section 313(a) has occurred within the 12 months preceding the reporting date, no such report need be transmitted). The Trustee also shall comply with Section 313(b)(2) of the Trust Indenture Act and shall also transmit by mail all reports as required by Section 313(c) of the Trust Indenture Act.
     
The Company shall file with the Trustee and the Commission, and transmit to Holders, such information, documents and other reports, and such summaries thereof, as may be required pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act at the times and in the manner provided pursuant to such Act;
provided
,
however
, that any such information, documents or reports required to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act shall be filed with the Trustee within 30 days after the same is so required to be filed with the Commission;
provided further
, that if allowed under the Trust Indenture Act, any such information, documents or reports required to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act shall be deemed to be filed with the Trustee when filed with the Commission.
48
SECTION 801.
Company May Consolidate, Etc
., Only on Certain Terms.
     
The Company shall not merge into or consolidate with any other Person or Persons (whether or not affiliated with the Company) or sell, convey, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its property or assets to any other Person or Persons (whether or not affiliated with the Company), and the Company shall not permit any Person to consolidate with or merge into the Company or convey, transfer or lease substantially all of its property or assets to the Company, unless:
     
(1) either (a) the transaction is a merger or consolidation and the Company is the surviving entity; or (b) the successor Person (or the Person which acquires by sale, conveyance, transfer or lease all or substantially all of the property or assets of the Company) is a corporation organized under the laws of the United States, any state thereof or the District of Columbia and expressly assumes, by an indenture supplemental hereto, executed and delivered to the Trustee, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, the Company's obligation for the due and punctual payment of the principal of (and premium, if any, on) and interest on all the Outstanding Securities of any series and the performance and observance of every covenant of the Outstanding Securities of such series and this Indenture on the part of the Company to be performed or observed;
     
(2) immediately after giving effect to such transaction and treating any Indebtedness which becomes an obligation of the Company or any Subsidiary as a result of such transaction as having been incurred by the Company or such Subsidiary at the time of such transaction, no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing; and
     
(3) the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officer's Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that such consolidation, merger, conveyance, transfer or lease and, if a supplemental indenture is required in connection with such transaction, such supplemental indenture comply with this Article and that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to such transaction have been complied with.
     
Upon any consolidation of the Company with, or merger of the Company into, any other Person or any sale, transfer or other conveyance of substantially all of the properties and assets of the Company in accordance with Section 801, but not in the case of a lease, the successor Person formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or to which such sale, transfer or other conveyance is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Company under this Indenture with the same effect as if such successor Person had been named as the
49
Company herein, and thereafter, the predecessor Person shall be released of all obligations to pay principal and interest on the Securities and all other obligations and covenants under this Indenture.
SECTION 901.
Supplemental Indentures Without Consent of Holders
.
     
Without the consent of any Holders, the Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee, at any time and from time to time, may amend or supplement this Indenture or the Securities of any series for any of the following purposes:
place of certificated Securities of such series;
maintain the qualification of this Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act;
     
(5) to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment by a successor Trustee;
series to any corresponding provision of the "Description of the Notes" section of the
     
(7) to establish the form or terms of Securities of any series as permitted by Sections 201 and 301;
     
(8) to provide for the assumption by a successor corporation, partnership, trust or limited liability company of the Company's obligations to the Holders of the Securities of any series, in each case in compliance with the provisions of Article Eight; or
     
(9) to make any change that would provide any additional rights or benefits to the Holders of Securities of any series (including to secure Securities of any series, add guarantees with respect thereto, to add to the covenants of the Company for the benefit of the Holders of all or any series of Securities (and if such covenants are to be for the benefit of less than all series of Securities, stating that such covenants are expressly being included solely for the benefit of such series), or to surrender any right or power herein conferred upon the Company, or that does not adversely affect the legal rights under this Indenture of any Holder of Securities of any series in any material respect; or
50
SECTION 902.
Supplemental Indentures with Consent of Holders
.
     
With the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of each series affected by such supplemental indenture, by Act of said Holders delivered to the Company and the Trustee, the Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee may enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of this Indenture or of modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series under this Indenture;
provided
,
however
, that no such supplemental indenture shall, without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security affected thereby,
     
(1) reduce the aggregate principal amount of Securities of any series at maturity whose Holders must consent to an amendment;
     
(2) reduce the rate of or change or have the effect of changing the time for payment of interest, including Defaulted Interest, on Securities of any series;
     
(3) reduce the principal of or change or have the effect of changing the fixed maturity of Securities of any series, or change the date on which Securities of any series may be subject to redemption or repurchase or reduce the Redemption Price or Repurchase Price therefor;
     
(4) make Securities of any series payable in money other than that stated in the Securities of such series or change the Place of Payment of the Securities of any series from that stated in the Securities of such series or in this Indenture;
     
(5) make any change in provisions of this Indenture protecting the right of each Holder to receive payment of principal of and interest on such Holder's Security or Securities on or after the due date thereof or to bring suit to enforce such payment, or permitting Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of Securities of any series to waive Defaults or Events of Default;
A supplemental indenture which changes or eliminates any covenant or other provision of this Indenture which has expressly been included solely for the benefit of one or more particular series of Securities, or which modifies the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series with respect to such covenant or other provision, shall be deemed not to affect the rights under this Indenture of the Holders of Securities of any other series.
     
It shall not be necessary for any Act of Holders under this Section to approve the particular form of any proposed supplemental indenture, but it shall be sufficient if such Act shall approve the substance thereof.
51
SECTION 903.
Execution of Supplemental Indentures
.
     
In executing, or accepting the additional trusts created by, any supplemental indenture permitted by this Article or the modifications thereby of the trusts created by this Indenture, the Trustee shall be entitled to receive, and (subject to Section 601) shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel stating that the execution of such supplemental indenture is authorized or permitted by this Indenture. The Trustee may, but shall not be obligated to, enter into any such supplemental indenture which affects the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise.
SECTION 904.
Effect of Supplemental Indentures
.
     
Upon the execution of any supplemental indenture under this Article, this Indenture shall be modified in accordance therewith, and such supplemental indenture shall form a part of this Indenture for all purposes; and every Holder of Securities theretofore or thereafter authenticated and delivered hereunder shall be bound thereby.
SECTION 905.
Conformity with Trust Indenture Act
.
     
Every supplemental indenture executed pursuant to this Article shall conform to the requirements of the Trust Indenture Act.
SECTION 906.
Notice of Supplemental Indenture; Reference in Securities to Supplemental Indentures
.
     
After any supplemental indenture entered into pursuant to this Article becomes effective, the Company shall mail to Holders a notice briefly describing such supplemental indenture. The failure to give such notice to all Holders, or any defect therein, shall not impair or affect the validity of any such supplemental indenture under this Article.
     
Securities of any series authenticated and delivered after the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to this Article may, and shall if required by the Trustee, bear a notation in form approved by the Trustee as to any matter provided for in such supplemental indenture. If the Company shall so determine, new Securities of any series so modified as to conform, in the opinion of the Trustee and the Company, to any such supplemental indenture may be prepared and executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee in exchange for Outstanding Securities of such series.
SECTION 1001.
Payment of Principal, Premium and Interest
.
     
The Company covenants and agrees for the benefit of each series of Securities that it will duly and punctually pay the principal of and any premium and interest on the
52
Securities of that series in accordance with the terms of the Securities and this Indenture. The Company shall pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue principal, Redemption Price and Repurchase Price at the rate specified in the terms of each series of Securities to the extent lawful; it shall pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue installments of interest (without regard to any applicable grace period) at the same rate to the extent lawful.
SECTION 1002.
Maintenance of Office or Agency
.
     
The Company will maintain in each Place of Payment for any series of Securities an office or agency (which may be an office of the Trustee or an affiliate of the Trustee, Security Registrar or Co-Security Registrar) where Securities of that series may be presented or surrendered for payment, where Securities of that series may be surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities of that series and this Indenture may be served. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of the location, and any change in the location, of such office or agency. If at any time the Company shall fail to maintain any such required office or agency or shall fail to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, and the Company hereby appoints the Trustee as its agent to receive all such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands.
     
The Company may also from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies where the Securities of one or more series may be presented or surrendered for any or all such purposes and may from time to time rescind such designations;
provided
,
however
, that no such designation or rescission shall in any manner relieve the Company of its obligation to maintain an office or agency in each Place of Payment for Securities of any series for such purposes. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of any such designation or rescission and of any change in the location of any such other office or agency.
SECTION 1003.
Money for Securities Payments to Be Held in Trust
.
     
If the Company shall at any time act as its own Paying Agent with respect to any series of Securities, it will, on or before each due date of the principal of or any premium or interest on any of the Securities of that series, segregate and hold in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled thereto a sum sufficient to pay the principal and any premium and interest so becoming due until such sums shall be paid to such Persons or otherwise disposed of as herein provided and will promptly notify the Trustee of its action or failure so to act.
     
Whenever the Company shall have one or more Paying Agents for any series of Securities, it will, on or prior to each due date of the principal of or any premium or interest on any Securities of that series, deposit with a Paying Agent a sum sufficient to pay such amount, such sum to be held as provided by the Trust Indenture Act, and (unless
such Paying Agent is the Trustee) the Company will promptly notify the Trustee of its action or failure so to act.
     
The Company will cause each Paying Agent for any series of Securities other than the Trustee to execute and deliver to the Trustee an instrument in which such Paying Agent shall agree with the Trustee, subject to the provisions of this Section, that such Paying Agent will (1) comply with the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act applicable to it as a Paying Agent and (2) during the continuance of any Default by the Company (or any other obligor upon the Securities of that series) in the making of any payment in respect of the Securities of that series, upon the written request of the Trustee, forthwith pay to the Trustee all sums held in trust by such Paying Agent for payment in respect of the Securities of that series.
     
The Company may at any time, for the purpose of obtaining the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture with respect to any series of Securities or for any other purpose, pay, or by Company Order direct any Paying Agent to pay, to the Trustee all sums held in trust by the Company or such Paying Agent, such sums to be held by the Trustee upon the same trusts as those upon which such sums were held by the Company or such Paying Agent; and, upon such payment by any Paying Agent to the Trustee, such Paying Agent shall be released from all further liability with respect to such money.
     
Subject to applicable abandoned property laws, any money deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent, or then held by the Company, in trust for the payment of the principal of or any premium or interest on any Security of any series and remaining unclaimed for two years after such principal, premium or interest has become due and payable shall be paid to the Company on Company Request, or (if then held by the Company) shall be discharged from such trust; and the Holder of such Security shall thereafter, as an unsecured general creditor, look only to the Company for payment thereof, and all liability of the Trustee or such Paying Agent with respect to such trust money, and all liability of the Company as trustee thereof, shall thereupon cease;
provided
,
however
, that the Trustee or such Paying Agent, before being required to make any such repayment, may at the expense of the Company cause to be published once, in a newspaper published in the English language, customarily published on each Business Day and of general circulation in New York, New York, notice that such money remains unclaimed and that, after a date specified therein, which shall not be less than 30 days from the date of such publication, any unclaimed balance of such money then remaining will be repaid to the Company.
SECTION 1004.
Statement by Officers as to Default
.
     
The Company shall deliver to the Trustee, within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company, commencing with the fiscal year ending June 30, 2008, an Officer's Certificate stating to the knowledge of such Officer whether the Company has kept, observed, performed and fulfilled each and every covenant contained in this Indenture in all material respects and is not in Default in the performance or observance of any of the terms, provisions and conditions of this Indenture (and, if a Default or Event
of Default shall have occurred, describing all such Defaults or Events of Default) of which he or she may have knowledge.
     
The Company shall, so long as any of the Securities of any series are Outstanding, deliver to the Trustee, promptly upon any Officer of the Company becoming aware of any Default or Event of Default, an Officer's Certificate specifying such Default or Event of Default.
     
Subject to Article Eight, the Company will do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect its existence, rights (charter and statutory) and franchises;
provided
,
however
, that the Company shall not be required to preserve any such right or franchise if the Company shall determine that the preservation thereof is no longer desirable in the conduct of the business of the Company and that the loss thereof is not disadvantageous in any material respect to the Holders.
     
The Company shall not (nor shall it permit any of its Subsidiaries to) issue, incur, create, assume or guarantee any Indebtedness secured by a Lien upon any Principal Property or upon any of the Capital Stock or Indebtedness of any of its Subsidiaries (whether such Principal Property, or Capital Stock or Indebtedness is then existing or owed or thereafter created or acquired) without in any such case effectively providing, concurrently with the issuance, incurrence, creation, assumption or guaranty of any such secured Indebtedness, or the grant of such Lien, that the Securities (together with, if the Company shall so determine, any other Indebtedness of or guarantee by the Company or such Subsidiary ranking equally with the Securities) shall be secured equally and ratably with (or, at the option of the Company, prior to) such secured Indebtedness, except:
securing Indebtedness of only such Person,
provided
such Indebtedness was not incurred in connection with such Person or entity becoming a Subsidiary and such Liens do not extend to any assets other than those of the person becoming a Subsidiary;
     
(3) Liens on property or assets of a Person existing at the time such person is merged into or consolidated with the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or at the time of a sale, lease or other disposition of all or substantially all of the properties or assets of a person to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries,
provided
that such Lien was not incurred in anticipation of the merger, consolidation, or sale, lease, other disposition or other such transaction by which such Person was merged into or consolidated with the Company or any of its Subsidiaries;
     
(4) Liens existing on assets created at the time of, or within the 12 months following, the acquisition, purchase, lease, improvement or development of such assets to
55
secure all or a portion of the purchase price or lease for, or the costs of improvement or development of (in each case including related costs and expenses), such assets;
     
(5) Liens to secure any extension, renewal, refinancing or refunding (or successive extensions, renewals, refinancings or refundings), in whole or in part, of any Indebtedness secured by Liens referred to in this Section 1006, so long as such Lien is limited to all or part of substantially the same property which secured the Lien extended, renewed or replaced, and the amount of Indebtedness secured is not increased (other than by the amount equal to any costs and expenses (including any premiums, fees or penalties) incurred in connection with any extension, renewal, refinancing or refunding);
Indenture to the Trustee and granted in accordance with the Indenture;
which, together with the value of Attributable Debt incurred in Sale and Lease-Back Transactions permitted pursuant to Section 1007 hereof, do not exceed 20% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets measured at the date of incurrence of the Lien.
SECTION 1007.
Limitation on Sale and Lease-Back Transactions
.
     
The Company shall not, and shall not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, enter into any Sale and Lease-Back Transaction with respect to any Principal Property, other than any such Sale and Lease-Back Transaction involving a lease for a term of not more than three years or any such Sale and Lease-Back Transaction between the Company and one of its Subsidiaries or between its Subsidiaries, unless:
     
(1) the Company or such Subsidiary, as applicable, could have incurred Indebtedness secured by a Lien on the Principal Property involved in such Sale and Lease-Back Transaction in an amount at least equal to the Attributable Debt with respect to such Sale and Lease-Back Transaction, without equally and ratably securing the Securities, under Section 1006 hereto; or
     
(2) the proceeds of such Sale and Lease-Back Transaction are at least equal to the fair market value of the affected Principal Property (as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors of the Company) and the Company applies an amount equal to the net proceeds of such Sale and Lease-Back Transaction within 365 days of such Sale and Lease-Back Transaction to any of (or a combination of):
mandatory prepayment or by payment at maturity) of other Indebtedness of the Company or of one of its Subsidiaries (other than Indebtedness that is subordinated to the Securities
56
or Indebtedness owed to the Company or one of its Subsidiaries) that matures more than 12 months after its creation; or
     
(iii) the purchase, construction, development, expansion or improvement of other comparable property.
SECTION 1008.
Offer to Repurchase upon Change of Control
.
     
(1) Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event with respect to the Securities of a series, unless the Company shall have exercised its right pursuant to Section 1102 hereof to redeem the Securities of such series, each Holder of Securities of such series shall have the right to require the Company to repurchase all or, at the Holder's option, any part (equal to $2,000 and any integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof), of such Holder's Securities of such series (a "Change of Control Offer") at a Repurchase Price in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Securities of such series repurchased plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Securities of such series to be repurchased, to, but excluding, the Repurchase Date (the "Change of Control Payment").
     
(2) Within 30 days following any Change of Control Triggering Event with respect to the Securities of a series, the Company shall cause a notice to be mailed to Holders of Securities of such series, with a copy to the Trustee for the Securities of such series, describing the transaction or transactions that constitute the Change of Control Triggering Event and offering to repurchase the Securities of such series on the date specified in the notice, which date shall be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed (the "Change of Control Payment Date"), pursuant to the procedures required by such Securities and described in such notice. The Company shall comply with the requirements of applicable securities laws and regulations in connection with the repurchase of the Securities of such series as a result of a Change of Control Triggering Event.
     
(i) accept for payment all Securities or portions of Securities properly tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer;
     
(ii) deposit with the Paying Agent an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all Securities or portions of Securities properly tendered; and
     
(iii) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Securities properly accepted together with an Officer's Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of Securities or portions of Securities being purchased by the Company.
     
(4) The Paying Agent shall promptly mail, to each Holder who properly tendered Securities, the Repurchase Price for such Securities, and the Trustee shall promptly authenticate and mail (or cause to be transferred by book entry) to each such Holder a new Security equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of the
57
Securities surrendered, if any; provided that each new Security will be in a principal amount of $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof.
     
(5) The Company shall not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon a Change of Control Triggering Event if a third party makes the Change of Control Offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements set forth in this Indenture applicable to a Change of Control Offer made by the Company and purchases all Securities properly tendered and not withdrawn under such Change of Control Offer. In the event that such third party terminates or defaults its Change of Control Offer, the Company shall be required to make a Change of Control Offer treating the date of such terminating or default as though it were the date of the Change of Control Triggering Event.
     
(6) The Company shall comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act and any other securities laws and regulations to the extent such laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of Securities as a result of a Change of Control Triggering Event. To the extent that the provision of any such securities laws or regulations conflicts with this Section 1008, the Company shall comply with those securities laws and regulations and shall not be deemed to have breached its obligations under this Section 1008 by virtue of any such conflict.
     
Securities of any series shall be redeemable in accordance with their terms and (except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 for such Securities) in accordance with this Article.
SECTION 1102.
Election to Redeem; Notice to Trustee
.
     
The election of the Company to redeem Securities of any series shall be evidenced by a Board Resolution or in another manner specified as contemplated by Section 301 for such Securities. In case of any redemption at the election of the Company of less than all the Securities of any series (including any such redemption affecting only a single Security), the Company shall, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date fixed by the Company (unless a shorter notice shall be satisfactory to the Trustee), notify the Trustee of such Redemption Date, of the principal amount of Securities of such series to be redeemed and, if applicable, of the tenor of the Securities to be redeemed. In the case of any redemption of Securities prior to the expiration of any restriction on such redemption provided in the terms of such Securities or elsewhere in this Indenture, the Company shall furnish the Trustee with an Officer's Certificate evidencing compliance with such restriction.
58
SECTION 1103.
Selection by Trustee of Securities to Be Redeemed
.
     
If less than all the Securities of any series are to be redeemed (unless all the Securities of such series are to be redeemed or unless such redemption affects only a single Security), the particular Securities to be redeemed shall be selected not more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date by the Trustee, from the Outstanding Securities of such series not previously called for redemption, with the requirements of the principal national securities exchange, if any, on which the Securities are listed or, if the Securities are not so listed, by such method as the Trustee shall deem fair and appropriate and which may provide for the selection for redemption of a portion of the principal amount of any Security of such series,
provided
,
however
, that the unredeemed portion of the principal amount of any Security shall be in an authorized denomination (which shall not be less than the minimum authorized denomination) for such Security. If less than all the Securities of such series and of a specified tenor are to be redeemed (unless such redemption affects only a single Security), the particular Securities to be redeemed shall be selected not more than 60 days and not less than 30 days prior to the Redemption Date by the Trustee, from the Outstanding Securities of such series and specified tenor not previously called for redemption in accordance with the preceding sentence.
     
The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company and the Security Registrar (if other than itself) in writing of the Securities selected for redemption as aforesaid and, in case of any Securities selected for partial redemption as aforesaid, the principal amount thereof to be redeemed.
     
The provisions of the two preceding paragraphs shall not apply with respect to any redemption affecting only a single Security, whether such Security is to be redeemed in whole or in part. In the case of any such redemption in part, the unredeemed portion of the principal amount of the Security shall be in a denomination of $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof.
     
For all purposes of this Indenture, unless the context otherwise requires, all provisions relating to the redemption of Securities shall relate, in the case of any Securities redeemed or to be redeemed only in part, to the portion of the principal amount of such Securities which has been or is to be redeemed.
     
Notice of redemption shall be given by first-class mail, postage prepaid, mailed not less than 30 (unless otherwise provided in the supplemental indenture or Board Resolution establishing the relevant series) nor more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date, to each Holder of Securities to be redeemed, at his address appearing in the Security Register.
59
     
(3) if less than all the Outstanding Securities of any series consisting of more than a single Security are to be redeemed, the identification (and, in the case of partial redemption of any such Securities, the respective principal amounts) of the particular Securities to be redeemed and, if less than all the Outstanding Securities of any series consisting of a single Security are to be redeemed, the principal amount of the particular Security to be redeemed,
     
(4) that on the Redemption Date the Redemption Price will become due and payable upon each such Security to be redeemed and, if applicable, that interest thereon will cease to accrue on and after said date,
     
(5) the place or places where each such Security is to be surrendered for payment of the Redemption Price, and
(6) the CUSIP and/or other similar number as contemplated by Section 308.
     
Notice of redemption of Securities to be redeemed at the election of the Company shall be given by the Company or, at the Company's request, by the Trustee in the name and at the expense of the Company and shall be irrevocable.
SECTION 1105.
Deposit of Redemption Price
.
     
On or prior to 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on any Redemption Date, the Company shall deposit with the Trustee or with a Paying Agent (or, if the Company is acting as its own Paying Agent, segregate and hold in trust as provided in Section 1003) an amount of money sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of all the Securities which are to be redeemed on that date.
SECTION 1106.
Securities Payable on Redemption Date
.
     
Notice of redemption having been given as aforesaid, the Securities so to be redeemed shall, on the Redemption Date, become due and payable at the Redemption Price therein specified, and from and after such date (unless the Company shall default in the payment of the Redemption Price ) such Securities shall cease to bear interest. Upon surrender of any such Security for redemption in accordance with said notice, such Security shall be paid by the Company at the Redemption Price;
provided
,
however
, that, unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301, installments of interest whose Interest Payment Dates are on or prior to the Redemption Date will be payable to the Holders of such Securities, or one or more Predecessor Securities, registered as such at the close of business on the relevant Regular Record Dates according to their terms and the provisions of Section 305.
     
If any Security called for redemption shall not be so paid upon surrender thereof for redemption, the principal and any premium shall, until paid, bear interest from the Redemption Date at the rate prescribed therefor in the Security.
SECTION 1107.
Securities Redeemed in Part
.
     
Any Security which is to be redeemed only in part shall be surrendered at a Place of Payment therefor (with, if the Company or the Trustee so requires, due endorsement by, or a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Trustee duly executed by, the Holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing), and the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder of such Security without service charge, a new Security or Securities of the same series and Stated Maturity, of any authorized denomination as requested by such Holder, in aggregate principal amount equal to and in exchange for the unredeemed portion of the principal of the Security so surrendered.
SECTION 1201.
Company's Option to Effect Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance
.
     
The Company may, at the option of its Board of Directors evidenced by a Board Resolution, at any time elect to have Section 1202 or Section 1203 applied to any Securities or any series of Securities, as the case may be, upon compliance with the conditions set forth below in this Article.
SECTION 1202.
Legal Defeasance and Discharge
.
     
Upon the Company's exercise under Section 1201 hereof to have this Section 1202 applied to any Securities or any series of Securities, as the case may be, the Company shall be deemed to have been discharged from its obligations with respect to such Securities as provided in this Section on and after the date the conditions set forth in Section 1204 are satisfied (hereinafter called "Legal Defeasance"). For this purpose, Legal Defeasance means that the Company shall be deemed to have paid and discharged the entire Indebtedness represented by such Securities and to have satisfied all its other obligations under such Securities and this Indenture insofar as such Securities are concerned (and the Trustee, at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging the same), subject to the following which shall survive until otherwise terminated or discharged hereunder:
     
(1) the rights of Holders of such Securities to receive, solely from the trust fund described in Section 1204 and as more fully set forth in such Section, payments in respect of the principal of and any premium and interest on such Securities when payments are due;
     
(2) the Company's obligations with respect to such Securities under Sections 302, 303, 304, 1002 and 1003 and with respect to the Trustee, including but not limited to those under Section 607;
61
     
Subject to compliance with this Article, the Company may exercise its option to have this Section applied to Securities of any series notwithstanding the prior exercise of its option to have Section 1203 applied to such Securities.
     
Upon the Company's exercise of its option under Section 1201 hereof to have this Section 1203 applied to any Securities or any series of Securities, as the case may be, (1) the Company shall be released from its obligations under Sections 1001 through 1008, inclusive, and any covenants provided pursuant to Sections 901(7) or 901(9) for the benefit of the Holders of such Securities and (2) the occurrence of any event specified in Sections 501(d) (with respect to any of Sections 1001 through 1008, inclusive, and any such covenants provided pursuant to Section 901(7) or 901(9)) shall be deemed not to be or result in a Default or an Event of Default, in each case with respect to such Securities as provided in this Section on and after the date the conditions set forth in Section 1204 are satisfied (hereinafter called "Covenant Defeasance"). For this purpose, such Covenant Defeasance means that, with respect to such Securities, the Company may omit to comply with and shall have no liability in respect of any term, condition or limitation set forth in any such specified Section (to the extent so specified in the case of Section 501(d)), whether directly or indirectly, by reason of any reference elsewhere herein to any such Section or by reason of any reference in any such Section to any other provision herein or in any other document, but the remainder of this Indenture and such Securities shall be unaffected thereby. In addition, upon the Company's exercise of its option under Section 1201 hereof to have this Section 1203 applied to any Securities or any series of Securities, subject to the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 1204, Sections 501(c) and (d) shall not constitute Events of Default.
SECTION 1204.
Conditions to Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance
.
     
The following shall be the conditions to the application of Section 1202 or Section 1203 to any Securities or any series of Securities, as the case may be:
     
(1) the Company must irrevocably deposit with the Trustee (or another trustee satisfying the requirements of Section 609 who has agreed to comply with the provisions of this Article Thirteen applicable to it), in trust, for the benefit of the Holders of such Securities, cash in U.S. dollars, U.S. Government Securities, or a combination thereof, in such amounts as will be sufficient, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants selected by the Company, to pay the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on such Securities on the stated date for payment thereof or on the applicable redemption date, as the case may be;
62
     
(2) in the case of Legal Defeasance, the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel reasonably acceptable to the Trustee confirming that:
     
(a) the Company has received from, or there has been published by, the Internal Revenue Service a ruling; or
     
(b) since the date of this Indenture, there has been a change in the applicable federal income tax law,
     
in either case to the effect that, and based thereon such Opinion of Counsel shall confirm that, the Holders of such Securities will not recognize income, gain or loss for federal income tax purposes as a result of such Legal Defeasance and will be subject to federal income tax on the same amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such Legal Defeasance had not occurred;
     
(3) in the case of Covenant Defeasance, the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel in the United States reasonably acceptable to the Trustee confirming that the Holders of such Securities will not recognize income, gain or loss for federal income tax purposes as a result of such Covenant Defeasance and will be subject to federal income tax on the same amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such Covenant Defeasance had not occurred;
     
(4) no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing on the date of such deposit or insofar as Events of Default from bankruptcy or insolvency events are concerned, at any time in the period ending on the 91st day after the date of deposit (other than a Default or Event of Default resulting from the borrowing of funds to be applied to such deposit and the grant of any Lien securing such borrowings);
     
(5) such Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance shall not result in a breach or violation of, or constitute a default under this Indenture (other than a Default or an Event of Default resulting from the borrowing of funds to be applied to such deposit and the grant of any Lien securing such borrowings) or any other material agreement or instrument to which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries is a party or by which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries is bound;
     
(6) the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officer's Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent provided for or relating to the Legal Defeasance or the Covenant Defeasance have been complied with; and
     
(7) the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that, assuming no intervening bankruptcy of the Company between the date of deposit and the 91st day following the date of deposit and that no Holder of such Securities is an insider of the Company, after the 91st day following the date of deposit, the trust funds will not be subject to the effect of any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally.
     
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Opinion of Counsel required by clause (2) above with respect to a Legal Defeasance need not be delivered if all such Securities not
theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation (i) have become due and payable or (ii) will become due and payable on the Stated Maturity within one year or are to be called for redemption within one year under arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for the giving of notice of redemption by the Trustee in the name, and at the expense, of the Company.
SECTION 1205.
Deposited Money and U.S. Government Securities to Be Held in Trust; Miscellaneous Provisions
.
     
Subject to the provisions of the last paragraph of Section 1003, all money and U.S. Government Securities (including the proceeds thereof) deposited with the Trustee or other qualifying trustee (solely for purposes of this Section and Section 1206, the Trustee and any such other trustee are referred to collectively as the "Trustee") pursuant to Section 1204 in respect of Securities of any series shall be held in trust and applied by the Trustee, in accordance with the provisions of such Securities and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any such Paying Agent (including the Company acting as its own Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the Holders of such Securities, of all sums due and to become due thereon in respect of principal and any premium and interest, but money so held in trust need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.
     
The Company shall pay and indemnify the Trustee against any tax, fee or other charge imposed on or assessed against the U.S. Government Securities deposited pursuant to Section 1204 or the principal and interest received in respect thereof other than any such tax, fee or other charge which by law is for the account of the Holders of Outstanding Securities of any series.
     
Anything in this Article to the contrary notwithstanding, the Trustee shall deliver or pay to the Company from time to time upon Company Request any money or U.S. Government Securities held by it as provided in Section 1204 with respect to any Securities which, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, are in excess of the amount thereof which would then be required to be deposited to effect the Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance, as the case may be, with respect to such Securities.
     
If the Trustee or the Paying Agent is unable to apply any money in accordance with this Article with respect to Securities of any series by reason of any order or judgment of any court or governmental authority enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting such application, then the obligations under this Indenture and such Securities from which the Company has been discharged or released pursuant to Section 1202 or 1203 shall be revived and reinstated as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to this Article with respect to such Securities, until such time as the Trustee or Paying Agent is permitted to apply all money held in trust pursuant to Section 1205 with respect to such Securities in accordance with this Article;
provided
,
however
, that if the Company makes
64
any payment of principal of or any premium or interest on any such Security following such reinstatement of its obligations, the Company shall be subrogated to the rights (if any) of the Holders of such Securities to receive such payment from the money so held in trust.
     
This instrument may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
65
     
I
N
W
ITNESS
W
HEREOF
, the parties hereto have caused this Indenture to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written.
66
THIS GLOBAL SECURITY IS HELD BY AND REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF THE DEPOSITORY (AS DEFINED IN THE INDENTURE GOVERNING THIS SECURITY) OR ITS NOMINEE IN CUSTODY FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE BENEFICIAL OWNERS HEREOF, IS NOT EXCHANGEABLE FOR SECURITIES REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A PERSON OTHER THAN THE DEPOSITORY OR ITS NOMINEE EXCEPT IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE, AND IS NOT TRANSFERABLE TO ANY PERSON UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES EXCEPT THAT (I) THE TRUSTEE MAY MAKE SUCH NOTATIONS HEREON AS MAY BE REQUIRED PURSUANT TO SECTION 203 OF THE INDENTURE, (II) THIS GLOBAL SECURITY MAY BE EXCHANGED PURSUANT TO SECTION 203(a) OF THE INDENTURE, (III) THIS GLOBAL SECURITY MAY BE DELIVERED TO THE TRUSTEE FOR CANCELLATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 306 OF THE INDENTURE AND (IV) THIS GLOBAL SECURITY MAY BE TRANSFERRED TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITORY WITH THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF THE COMPANY.
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE
& CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED
REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
A-1
     
KLA-TENCOR CORPORATION, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (herein called the "Company", which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to , or registered assigns, the principal sum of dollars on , which aggregate principal amount may from time to time be reduced or increased, as appropriate, in accordance with the within mentioned Indenture and as reflected in the Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in the Global Security attached hereto, to reflect exchanges or redemptions of the Securities represented hereby, and to pay interest thereon from or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually on and in each year, commencing , at the rate of % per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment,
provided
,
however
that any principal and premium, and any such installment of interest, which is overdue shall bear interest at the rate of % per annum (to the extent that the payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable), from the dates such amounts are due until they are paid or made available for payment, and such interest shall be payable on demand). The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the or (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holder of Securities of this series not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date.
     
Payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and any such interest on this Security will be made at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in Minneapolis, Minnesota, in accordance with the terms of the Indenture referred to or the reverse hereof in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts.
A-2
     
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
     
This Security shall be deemed to be a contract made under the laws of the State of New York, and for all purposes shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of said state.
     
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual, facsimile or electronic signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
I
N
W
ITNESS
W
HEREOF
, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed.
KLA-TENCOR CORPORATION
By: ___________________________ Name: Title:
CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION
     
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
Dated: _______________________
WELLS FARGO BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,
as Trustee
By:
A-5
     
This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the "Securities"), issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture, dated as of May , 2008 (herein called the "Indenture", which term shall have the meaning assigned to it in such instrument), between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee", which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), and reference is hereby made to the Indenture for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Security is one of the series designated on the face hereof, initially limited in aggregate principal amount to $ .
     
The Securities of this series are subject to redemption at any time, upon not less than 30 days' and not more than 60 days' prior notice by mail to the registered address of each Holder of Securities of this series, as a whole or from time to time in part, at the election of the Company (
provided
,
however
, that, if the Company shall have elected pursuant to the Indenture to defease the entire indebtedness of this Security or certain covenants and Events of Defaults with respect to this Security, prior to making such election to redeem the Securities it shall have deposited in trust amounts sufficient to pay the Redemption Price), on any date prior to their Stated Maturity at a "
Redemption Price
" equal to (a) the greater of (i) 100% of the aggregate principal amount of such Securities to be redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the Redemption Date and (ii) the sum of the present values of the Remaining Scheduled Payments (as defined below) of such Securities to be redeemed, discounted to the Redemption Date on semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate (as defined below), plus basis points, plus (b) accrued and unpaid interest thereon to, but not including, the Redemption Date.
     
"
Treasury Rate
" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, the rate per annum equal to the semiannual equivalent yield to maturity or interpolation (on a day count basis) of the interpolated Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption Date. "
Comparable Treasury Issue
" means the United States Treasury security or securities selected by an Independent Investment Banker as having an actual or interpolated maturity comparable to the remaining term of such Securities to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of a comparable maturity to the remaining term of such Securities. "
Comparable Treasury Price
" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, (1) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date after excluding the highest and lowest of such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (2) if the Trustee obtains fewer than four such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations. "
Independent Investment Banker
" means one of the Reference Treasury Dealers, appointed by the Trustee after consultation with the Company. "
Reference Treasury Dealer
" means Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Lehman Brothers Inc. and Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC and their respective affiliates, all of which are primary U.S. government securities dealers, and their respective successors and two other nationally
A-6
recognized investment banking firms that are primary U.S. government securities dealers as selected by the Company. If any of the foregoing or their affiliates shall cease to be a primary U.S. government securities dealer in The City of New York (a "Primary Treasury Dealer"), the Company will substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer. "
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on the third business day preceding such Redemption Date. "
Remaining Scheduled Payments
" means, with respect to each note to be redeemed, the remaining scheduled payments of principal of and interest on the note that would be due after the related Redemption Date but for the redemption. If that Redemption Date is not an interest payment date with respect to a note, the amount of the next succeeding scheduled interest payment on the note will be reduced by the amount of interest accrued on the note to the Redemption Date.
     
In the event of redemption of this Security in part only, a new Security or Securities of this series and of like tenor for the unredeemed portion hereof will be issued in the name of the Holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof.
     
The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of the entire indebtedness of this Security or certain covenants and Events of Default with respect to this Security, in each case upon compliance with certain conditions set forth in the Indenture.
     
If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
     
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of each series to be affected. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of each series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
     
As provided in and subject to the provisions of the Indenture, if any Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the then Outstanding Securities of this series may declare all the Securities of this series to be due and payable immediately. Upon any such declaration, the entire aggregate principal amount of, and accrued and unpaid interest on the Securities of this series shall become immediately due and payable. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the case of an Event of Default
arising from certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency, all Outstanding Securities of this series will become due and payable without further action or notice. Holders may not enforce the Indenture or the Securities except as provided in the Indenture. Subject to certain limitations, Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then Outstanding Securities of this series may direct the Trustee in its exercise of any trust or power. The Trustee may withhold from Holders of the Securities notice of any continuing Default or Event of Default (except a Default or Event of Default relating to payment on any Security) if it determines that withholding notice is in their interest. The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of this series may waive any existing or past Default or Event of Default under the Indenture, and its consequences, except a default in the payment of the principal of, or interest on, any Securities. The Company is required to deliver to the Trustee annually a statement regarding compliance with the Indenture.
     
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and any premium and interest on this Security at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
     
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security may be registered and this Security may be exchanged as provided in the Indenture.
     
The Securities of this series are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 and any integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof.
     
No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
     
Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
     
No past, present or future director, officer, employee, incorporator, agent, stockholder or Affiliate of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, as applicable, shall have any liability for any obligations of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries under the Securities, the Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. Each Holder by accepting a Security waives and releases all such liabilities. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for issuance of the Securities.
     
All terms used in this Security which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
and irrevocably appoint as agent to transfer this Security on the books of the Company. The agent may substitute another to act for him.
Your Signature:
(Sign exactly as your name appears on the other side of this Security)
*NOTICE: The Signature must be guaranteed by an Institution which is a member of one of the following recognized signature Guarantee Programs: (i) The Securities Transfer Agent Medallion Program (STAMP); (ii) The New York Stock Exchange Medallion Program (MNSP); (iii) The Stock Exchange Medallion Program (SEMP); or (iv) such other guarantee program acceptable to the Trustee.
A-9
The initial outstanding principal amount of this Global Security is $ .
The following exchanges of an interest in this Global Security for an interest in another Global Security or for a Definitive Security, exchanges of an interest in another Global Security or a Definitive Security for an interest in this Global Security, or exchanges or purchases of a part of this Global Security have been made:
A-10
A-11


