FILE:KLAC/KLAC-8K-20080124163726.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
On January 24, 2008, KLATencor Corporation ("KLA-Tencor") issued a press release regarding selected operating results for its second quarter of fiscal year 2008, which ended December 31, 2007. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
The information in Item 2.02 of this Form 8-K and the exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
 
The Company reached an agreement in principle for the settlement of a securities class action that named KLA-Tencor and certain of its current and former directors and officers as defendants relating to its historical stock option practices. Under the terms of the memorandum of understanding confirming such agreement in principle, the Company will be required to make a payment of $65.0 million to the settlement class. The settlement, which is subject to a final agreement and court approval, will provide a full release of KLA-Tencor and the other named defendants in connection with the allegations raised in the lawsuit.
 
(d) Exhibits
The following exhibit is furnished herewith:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
News Release
 
SAN JOSE, Calif., January 24, 2008 KLA-Tencor Corporation (NASDAQ: KLAC) today announced operating results for its second quarter of fiscal 2008, which ended on December 31, 2007. The Company reported GAAP net income of $84 million and GAAP earnings per diluted share of $0.45 on revenue of $636 million for the second quarter of fiscal 2008.
"The actions we have taken over the past several quarters to globalize our operations, reduce overhead, and streamline our cost structure are driving efficiencies throughout our business, even in this challenging demand environment." said Rick Wallace, CEO of KLA-Tencor.
 
 
A reconciliation between GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income is provided in the tables accompanying this release. Non-GAAP results include the impact of stock-based compensation, but exclude the impact of acquisition, restatement and restructuring related items.
Financial Highlights for the second quarter of fiscal 2008
 
 
 
 
Business Highlights for the second quarter of fiscal 2008
 
 
 
 
KLA-Tencor will discuss its fiscal 2008 second quarter results, along with its outlook for the third quarter of fiscal 2008, on a conference call today beginning at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Standard Time. A webcast of the call will be available at: .
www.kla-tencor.com
Forward Looking Statements:
Statements in this press release other than historical facts, such as statements regarding the success of collaborations with other companies, the benefit to customers of and demand for KLA-Tencor's products, and the finalization and approval of the securities class action settlement, are forward-looking statements, and are subject to the Safe Harbor provisions created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on current information and expectations, and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those projected in such statements due to various factors, including but not limited to: the demand for semiconductors; new and enhanced product offerings by competitors; cancellation of orders by customers; and changing customer demands. For other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected and anticipated in forward-looking statements in this release, please refer to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2007, subsequently filed Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (including, but not limited to, the risk factors described therein).
About KLA-Tencor:
KLA-Tencor is the world's leading supplier of process control and yield management solutions for the semiconductor and related microelectronics industries. Headquartered in San Jose, Calif., the Company has sales and service offices around the world. An S&P 500 Company, KLA-Tencor is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol KLAC. Additional information about the Company is available on the Internet at .
http://www.kla-tencor.com
:
Use of Non-GAAP financial information
The non-GAAP information and supplemental information provided in this press release is a supplement to, and not a substitute for, our financial results presented in accordance with GAAP.
To supplement our condensed consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with GAAP, we provide non-GAAP financial information, which are adjusted from results based on GAAP to exclude certain costs and expenses, as well as other supplemental information. The non-GAAP and supplemental information are provided to enhance the user's overall understanding of our operating performance and our prospects in the future. Specifically, we believe the non-GAAP information provide useful measures to both management and investors regarding financial and business trends relating to our financial performance by excluding certain costs and expenses that we believe are not indicative of our core operating results. The non-GAAP information is among budgeting and planning tools that management uses for future forecasting. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with United States GAAP.
 
KLA-Tencor Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Unaudited Balance Sheets
 
 
KLA-Tencor Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Unaudited Statements Of Operations
 
 
KLA-Tencor Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Unaudited Statements of Cash Flows
 
 
KLA-Tencor Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Unaudited Supplemental Information
(In thousands except per share data)
Reconciliation of GAAP Net Income to Non-GAAP Net Income
 
Impact of items included in Condensed Statements of Operations:
 
To supplement our condensed consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with GAAP, we provide non-GAAP financial information, which are adjusted from results based on GAAP to exclude certain costs and expenses, as well as other supplemental information. The non-GAAP and supplemental information are provided to enhance the user's overall understanding of our operating performance and our prospects in the future. Specifically, we believe the non-GAAP information provide useful measures to both management and investors regarding financial and business trends relating to our financial performance by excluding certain costs and expenses that we believe are not indicative of our core operating
 
results. The non-GAAP information is among budgeting and planning tools that management uses for future forecasting. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with United States GAAP.
 
 
 
 
 
 


