FILE:KLAC/KLAC-8K-20090129164423.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 29, 2009, KLA-Tencor Corporation issued a press release announcing selected operating results for its second quarter of fiscal year 2009, which ended on December 31, 2008. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
The information in Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K and the exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
 
(d) Exhibits
The following exhibit is furnished herewith:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
MILPITAS, Calif. (Jan. 29, 2009)KLA-Tencor Corporation (NASDAQ: KLAC) today announced operating results for its second quarter of fiscal 2009, which ended on December 31, 2008. KLA-Tencor reported a GAAP net loss of $434 million and a GAAP loss per share of $2.57 on revenues of $397 million for the second quarter of fiscal 2009. The results for the second quarter of fiscal 2009 include the pre-tax impact of a $435 million charge related to the aggregate impairment of goodwill and purchased intangible assets. KLA-Tencor reported a non-GAAP net loss of $20 million and a non-GAAP loss per share of $0.12 for the second quarter of fiscal 2009.
"The continuing worldwide economic slowdown drove sharp reductions in our customers' capital budgets, and KLA-Tencor experienced a greater-than-expected decline in orders and revenue at the end of the December quarter, including service revenue," said Rick Wallace, president and chief executive officer of KLA-Tencor. "In light of the current economic environment and our limited visibility regarding future market conditions, KLA-Tencor has been taking aggressive steps to reduce operating expenses and drive structural efficiencies across our organization, while maintaining a high level of investment in research and development, as well as our focus on customer service. We are confident these actions will allow us to sustain our technological and market leadership during this severe downturn and position us well when industry conditions improve, while protecting our balance sheet."
 
A reconciliation between GAAP operating results and non-GAAP operating results is provided following the financial statements that are part of this release. Non-GAAP results include the impact of stock-based compensation, but exclude the impact of acquisition, goodwill and intangible asset impairment, restatement, and restructuring related items.
KLA-Tencor will discuss its fiscal 2009 second quarter results, along with its outlook, on a conference call today beginning at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Standard Time. A webcast of the call will be available at:
www.kla-tencor.com
Forward-Looking Statements:
Statements in this press release other than historical facts, such as statements regarding the benefit to customers of KLA-Tencor's products, anticipated performance of the company's products, anticipated market conditions, potential market opportunities for KLA-Tencor, anticipated steps designed to reduce KLA-Tencor's costs and the success of such efforts, KLA-Tencor's ability to sustain its current technological and market position in the future, and demand for KLA-Tencor's products, are forward-looking statements, and are subject to the Safe Harbor provisions created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on current information and expectations, and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those projected in such statements due to various factors, including but not limited to: the demand for semiconductors; the financial condition of the global capital markets and the general macroeconomic environment; new and enhanced product offerings by competitors; cancellation of orders by customers; KLA-Tencor's inability to successfully integrate and manage businesses that it acquires; and changing customer demands. For other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected and anticipated in forward-looking statements in this release, please refer to KLA-Tencor's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2008, subsequently filed Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (including, but not limited to, the risk factors described therein). KLA-Tencor assumes no obligation to, and does not currently intend to, update these forward-looking statements.
About KLA-Tencor:
KLA-Tencor Corporation is the world's leading supplier of process control and yield management solutions for the semiconductor and related nanoelectronics industries. Headquartered in Milpitas, California, the company has sales and service offices around the world. An S&P 500 company, KLA-Tencor is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol KLAC. Additional information about the company is available at . (KLAC-F)
http://www.kla-tencor.com
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information:
The non-GAAP and supplemental information provided in this press release is a supplement to, and not a substitute for, our financial results presented in accordance with United States GAAP.
To supplement our condensed consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with GAAP, we provide certain non-GAAP financial information, which is adjusted from results based on GAAP to exclude certain costs and expenses, as well as other supplemental information. The non-GAAP and supplemental information is provided to enhance the user's overall understanding of our operating performance and our prospects in the future. Specifically, we believe the non-GAAP information provides useful measures to both management and investors regarding financial and business trends relating to our financial performance by excluding certain costs and expenses that we believe are not indicative of our core operating results. The non-GAAP information is among the budgeting and planning tools that management uses for future forecasting. The presentation of non-GAAP and supplemental information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared and presented in accordance with United States GAAP.
KLA-Tencor Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Unaudited Balance Sheets
 
KLA-Tencor Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Unaudited Statements of Operations
 
KLA-Tencor Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Unaudited Statements of Cash Flows
 
KLA-Tencor Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Unaudited Supplemental Information
(In thousands except per share data)
Reconciliation of GAAP Net Income (Loss) to Non-GAAP Net Income (Loss)
 
Impact of items included in Condensed Consolidated Unaudited Statements of Operations:
 
 
To supplement our condensed consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with GAAP, we provide certain non-GAAP financial information, which is adjusted from results based on GAAP to exclude certain costs and expenses, as well as other supplemental information. The non-GAAP and supplemental information is provided to enhance the user's overall understanding of our operating performance and our prospects in the future. Specifically, we believe the non-GAAP information provides useful measures to both management and investors regarding financial and business trends relating to our financial performance by excluding certain costs and expenses that we believe are not indicative of our core operating results. The non-GAAP information is among the budgeting and planning tools that management uses for future forecasting. The presentation of non-GAAP and supplemental information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared and presented in accordance with United States GAAP.
 
 
 
 
 
 


