FILE:KLAC/KLAC-8K-20091029162318.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 29, 2009, KLA-Tencor Corporation issued a press release announcing selected operating results for its first quarter of fiscal year 2010, which ended on September 30, 2009. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
The information in Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K and the exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
 
(d) Exhibits
The following exhibit is furnished herewith:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
MILPITAS, Calif., October 29, 2009 (NASDAQ: KLAC) today announced operating results for its first quarter of fiscal year 2010, which ended on September 30, 2009. KLA-Tencor reported GAAP net income of $20 million and GAAP earnings per diluted share of $0.12 on revenues of $343 million for the first quarter of fiscal year 2010.
KLA-Tencor Corporation
"KLA-Tencor delivered stronger-than-expected results and returned to profitability in the first quarter of fiscal 2010, led by a sharp increase in demand from foundry customers. Our results were also favorably impacted by a one-time non-operating gain and by a lower than normal tax rate," commented Rick Wallace, President and Chief Executive Officer of KLA-Tencor. "We announced several new products targeted at addressing our customers' next-generation wafer and reticle inspection requirements. As our customers increase their technology investments at the leading edge, we are advancing our market leadership while remaining focused on cost discipline."
 
A reconciliation between GAAP operating results and non-GAAP operating results is provided following the financial statements that are part of this release. Non-GAAP results include the impact of stock-based compensation, but exclude the impact of acquisition, goodwill and intangible asset impairment, restatement, and restructuring related items.
KLA-Tencor will discuss the results for its fiscal year 2010 first quarter, along with its outlook, on a conference call today beginning at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Daylight Time. A webcast of the call will be available at:
www.kla-tencor.com
Forward-Looking Statements:
Statements in this press release other than historical facts, such as statements regarding the next-generation requirements of the company's customers and KLA-Tencor's ability to successfully innovate, develop and sell new technologies and products that meet customer demands, future business levels, expected increases in customer investments in technology at the leading edge, anticipated gains in market leadership, and the company's ability to continue to control its cost structure, are forward-looking statements, and are subject to the Safe Harbor
provisions created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on current information and expectations, and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those projected in such statements due to various factors, including but not limited to: the demand for semiconductors; the financial condition of the global capital markets and the general macroeconomic environment; new and enhanced product offerings by competitors; cancellation of orders by customers; the ability of KLA-Tencor's research and development teams to successfully innovate and develop technology that is responsive to customer demands; unanticipated delays in the completion or implementation of KLA-Tencor's recent cost-reduction efforts; KLA-Tencor's ability to successfully integrate and manage businesses that it acquires; and changing customer demands. For other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected and anticipated in forward-looking statements in this release, please refer to KLA-Tencor's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2009 and other subsequent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (including, but not limited to, the risk factors described therein). KLA-Tencor assumes no obligation to, and does not currently intend to, update these forward-looking statements.
About KLA-Tencor:
KLA-Tencor Corporation (NASDAQ: KLAC), a leading provider of process control and yield management solutions, partners with customers around the world to develop state-of-the-art inspection and metrology technologies. These technologies serve the semiconductor, data storage, compound semiconductor, photovoltaic, and other related nanoelectronics industries. With a portfolio of industry-standard products and a team of world-class engineers and scientists, the company has created superior solutions for its customers for over 30 years. Headquartered in Milpitas, California, KLA-Tencor has dedicated customer operations and service centers around the world. Additional information may be found at www.kla-tencor.com. (KLAC-F)
:
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
The non-GAAP and supplemental information provided in this press release is a supplement to, and not a substitute for, KLA-Tencor's financial results presented in accordance with United States GAAP.
To supplement KLA-Tencor's condensed consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with GAAP, the company provides certain non-GAAP financial information, which is adjusted from results based on GAAP to exclude certain costs and expenses, as well as other supplemental information. The non-GAAP and supplemental information is provided to enhance the user's overall understanding of KLA-Tencor's operating performance and its prospects in the future. Specifically, KLA-Tencor believes the non-GAAP information provides useful measures to both management and investors regarding financial and business trends relating to KLA-Tencor's financial performance by excluding certain costs and expenses that the company believes are not indicative of its core operating results. The non-GAAP information is among the budgeting and planning tools that management uses for future forecasting. The presentation of non-GAAP and supplemental information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared and presented in accordance with United States GAAP.
KLA-Tencor Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Unaudited Balance Sheets
 
KLA-Tencor Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Unaudited Statements of Operations
 
KLA-Tencor Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Unaudited Statements of Cash Flows
 
KLA-Tencor Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Unaudited Supplemental Information
(In thousands, except per share data)
Reconciliation of GAAP Net Income (Loss) to Non-GAAP Net Income (Loss)
 
Impact of items included in Condensed Consolidated Unaudited Statements of Operations:
 
 
To supplement our condensed consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with GAAP, we provide certain non-GAAP financial information, which is adjusted from results based on GAAP to exclude certain costs and expenses, as well as other supplemental information. The non-GAAP and supplemental information is provided to enhance the user's overall understanding of our operating performance and our prospects in the future. Specifically, we believe the non-GAAP information provides useful measures to both management and investors regarding financial and business trends relating to our financial performance by excluding certain costs and expenses that we believe are not indicative of our core operating results. The non-GAAP information is among the budgeting and planning tools that management uses for future forecasting. The presentation of non-GAAP and supplemental information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared and presented in accordance with United States GAAP.
 
 


