FILE:KLAC/KLAC-8K-20090723164541.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 23, 2009, KLA-Tencor Corporation issued a press release announcing selected operating results for its fourth fiscal quarter and fiscal year ended June 30, 2009. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
The information in Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K and the exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
 
(d) Exhibits
The following exhibit is furnished herewith:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
MILPITAS, Calif., July 23, 2009 (NASDAQ: KLAC) today announced operating results for its fourth quarter and fiscal year ended on June 30, 2009. KLA-Tencor reported GAAP net loss of $26 million and GAAP loss per share of $0.15 on revenue of $282 million for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009. For the year ended June 30, 2009, the company reported GAAP net loss of $523 million and GAAP loss per diluted share of $3.07 on revenue of $1.5 billion.
KLA-Tencor Corporation
"We are encouraged by investments in technology development programs by customers at the leading edge as well as improved demand from our foundry customers," commented Rick Wallace, president and CEO of KLA-Tencor. "We continue to manage our business to align our cost structure with projected revenue levels and are focused on achieving non-GAAP breakeven by the end of calendar year 2009, while at the same time maintaining a high level of R&D investment to support our customers' next-generation process control needs."
 
 
A reconciliation between GAAP operating results and non-GAAP operating results is provided following the financial statements that are part of this release. Non-GAAP results include the impact of stock-based compensation, but exclude the impact of acquisition, goodwill and intangible asset impairment, restatement, and restructuring related items.
KLA-Tencor will discuss the results for its fourth quarter and fiscal year 2009, along with its outlook, on a conference call today beginning at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Daylight Time. A webcast of the call will be available at:
www.kla-tencor.com
Forward-Looking Statements:
Statements in this press release other than historical facts, such as statements regarding the encouragement derived from the investment in technology development programs witnessed in the June quarter (including without limitation the potential success of such technology development programs and whether such programs will result in future sales for KLA-Tencor) and from the improved demand seen in the June quarter from foundry customers (including without limitation the possibility that such improved demand will be sustained in future
periods); the company's ability to align its cost structure with projected revenue levels so as to achieve non-GAAP breakeven operating results by the end of the calendar year; future levels of investment in research and development by KLA-Tencor; and KLA-Tencor's ability to successfully innovate, develop and sell new technologies and products that meet customer demands, are forward-looking statements, and are subject to the Safe Harbor provisions created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on current information and expectations, and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those projected in such statements due to various factors, including but not limited to: the demand for semiconductors; the financial condition of the global capital markets and the general macroeconomic environment; new and enhanced product offerings by competitors; cancellation of orders by customers; the ability of KLA-Tencor's research and development teams to successfully innovate and develop technology that is responsive to customer demands; the impact of local labor and employment laws on KLA-Tencor's ability to complete, and realize the anticipated cost savings from, its recent global workforce reductions; unanticipated delays in the completion of KLA-Tencor's facilities consolidation efforts or the implementation of other cost-reduction efforts; KLA-Tencor's ability to successfully integrate and manage businesses that it acquires; and changing customer demands. For other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected and anticipated in forward-looking statements in this release, please refer to KLA-Tencor's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2008, subsequently filed Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (including, but not limited to, the risk factors described therein). KLA-Tencor assumes no obligation to, and does not currently intend to, update these forward-looking statements.
About KLA-Tencor:
KLA-Tencor Corporation (NASDAQ: KLAC), a leading provider of process control and yield management solutions, partners with customers around the world to develop state-of-the-art inspection and metrology technologies. These technologies serve the semiconductor, data storage, compound semiconductor, photovoltaic, and other related nanoelectronics industries. With a portfolio of industry-standard products and a team of world-class engineers and scientists, the company has created superior solutions for its customers for over 30 years. Headquartered in Milpitas, California, KLA-Tencor has dedicated customer operations and service centers around the world. Additional information may be found at www.kla-tencor.com. (KLAC-F)
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information:
The non-GAAP and supplemental information provided in this press release is a supplement to, and not a substitute for, KLA-Tencor's financial results presented in accordance with United States GAAP.
To supplement KLA-Tencor's condensed consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with GAAP, the company provides certain non-GAAP financial information, which is adjusted from results based on GAAP to exclude certain costs and expenses, as well as other supplemental information. The non-GAAP and supplemental information is provided to enhance the user's overall understanding of KLA-Tencor's operating performance and its prospects in the future. Specifically, KLA-Tencor believes the non-GAAP information provides useful measures to both management and investors regarding financial and business trends relating to KLA-Tencor's financial performance by excluding certain costs and expenses that the company believes are not indicative of its core operating results. The non-GAAP information is among the budgeting and planning tools that management uses for future forecasting. The presentation of non-GAAP and supplemental information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared and presented in accordance with United States GAAP.
KLA-Tencor Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Unaudited Balance Sheets
 
KLA-Tencor Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Unaudited Statements of Operations
 
KLA-Tencor Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Unaudited Statements of Cash Flows
 
KLA-Tencor Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Unaudited Supplemental Information
(In thousands, except per share data)
Reconciliation of GAAP Net Income (Loss) to Non-GAAP Net Income (Loss)
 
Impact of items included in Condensed Consolidated Unaudited Statements of Operations:
 
 
To supplement our condensed consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with GAAP, we provide certain non-GAAP financial information, which is adjusted from results based on GAAP to exclude certain costs and expenses, as well as other supplemental information. The non-GAAP and supplemental information is provided to enhance the user's overall understanding of our operating performance and our prospects in the future. Specifically, we believe the non-GAAP information provides useful measures to both management and investors regarding financial and business trends relating to our financial performance by excluding certain costs and expenses that we believe are not indicative of our core operating results. The non-GAAP information is among the budgeting and planning tools that management uses for future forecasting. The presentation of non-GAAP and supplemental information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared and presented in accordance with United States GAAP.
 
 
 
 
 
 


