FILE:KLAC/KLAC-8K-20100429162350.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 29, 2010, KLA-Tencor Corporation issued a press release announcing selected operating results for its third quarter of fiscal year 2010, which ended on March 31, 2010. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
The information in Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K and the exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
 
(d) Exhibits
The following exhibit is furnished herewith:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
MILPITAS, Calif., April 29, 2010 (NASDAQ: KLAC) today announced operating results for its third quarter of fiscal year 2010, which ended on March 31, 2010, and reported GAAP net income of $57 million and GAAP earnings per diluted share of $0.33 on revenues of $478 million.
KLA-Tencor Corporation
"KLA-Tencor posted strong third quarter results from the combination of an improving industry environment, solid operational execution, and customer adoption of advanced technologies at the leading edge," said Rick Wallace, KLA-Tencor's president and chief executive officer. "These results are a testament to our team's ongoing commitment to innovation and fiscal discipline. Looking forward, we believe that our leading technology will enable us to develop solutions that address our customers' most complex process control challenges, and that our improved operating efficiencies will help us drive even stronger financial performance as industry growth continues."
 
A reconciliation between GAAP operating results and non-GAAP operating results is provided following the financial statements that are part of this release. Non-GAAP results include the impact of stock-based compensation, but exclude the impact of acquisition, restatement and restructuring related items, goodwill and intangible asset impairment, and certain discrete tax items.
KLA-Tencor will discuss the results for its fiscal year 2010 third quarter, along with its outlook, on a conference call today beginning at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Daylight Time. A webcast of the call will be available at:
www.kla-tencor.com
Forward-Looking Statements:
Statements in this press release other than historical facts, such as statements regarding KLA-Tencor's anticipated ability to maintain its recent operating efficiencies and improve its financial performance in future periods, the company's expected capacity to maintain its technology leadership position relative to its competitors, and KLA-Tencor's ability to successfully innovate, develop and sell new technologies and products that meet customer needs are forward-looking statements, and are subject to the Safe Harbor provisions created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on current information and expectations, and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those projected in such statements due to various factors, including but not limited to: the demand for semiconductors; the financial condition of the global capital markets and the general macroeconomic environment; KLA-Tencor's ability to successfully control its future operating expenses; new and enhanced product and technology offerings by competitors; cancellation of orders by customers; the ability of KLA-Tencor's research and development teams to successfully innovate and develop technology that is responsive to customer demands; KLA-Tencor's ability to successfully integrate and manage businesses that it acquires; market acceptance of the company's existing and newly issued products; and changing customer demands. For other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected and anticipated in forward-looking statements in this release, please refer to KLA-Tencor's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2009 and other subsequent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (including, but not limited to, the risk factors described therein). KLA-Tencor assumes no obligation to, and does not currently intend to, update these forward-looking statements.
About KLA-Tencor:
KLA-Tencor Corporation (NASDAQ: KLAC), a leading provider of process control and yield management solutions, partners with customers around the world to develop state-of-the-art inspection and metrology technologies. These technologies serve the semiconductor, data storage, LED, photovoltaic, and other related nanoelectronics industries. With a portfolio of industry-standard products and a team of world-class engineers and scientists, the company has created superior solutions for its customers for over 30 years. Headquartered in Milpitas, California, KLA-Tencor has dedicated customer operations and service centers around the world. Additional information may be found at www.kla-tencor.com. (KLAC-F)
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information:
The non-GAAP and supplemental information provided in this press release is a supplement to, and not a substitute for, KLA-Tencor's financial results presented in accordance with United States GAAP.
To supplement KLA-Tencor's condensed consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with GAAP, the company provides certain non-GAAP financial information, which is adjusted from results based on GAAP to exclude certain costs and expenses, as well as other supplemental information. The non-GAAP and supplemental information is provided to enhance the user's overall understanding of KLA-Tencor's operating performance and its prospects in the future. Specifically, KLA-Tencor believes that the non-GAAP information provides useful measures to both management and investors regarding financial and business trends relating to KLA-Tencor's financial performance by excluding certain costs and expenses that the company believes are not indicative of its core operating results. The non-GAAP information is among the budgeting and planning tools that management uses for future forecasting. However, because there are no standardized or generally accepted definitions for most non-GAAP financial metrics, definitions of non-GAAP financial metrics (for example, determining which costs and expenses to exclude when calculating such a metric) are inherently subject to significant discretion. As a result, non-GAAP financial metrics may be defined very differently from company to company, or even from period to period within the same company, which can potentially limit the usefulness of such information to an investor. The presentation of non-GAAP and supplemental information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared and presented in accordance with United States GAAP.
KLA-Tencor Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Unaudited Balance Sheets
 
KLA-Tencor Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Unaudited Statements of Operations
 
KLA-Tencor Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Unaudited Statements of Cash Flows
 
KLA-Tencor Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Unaudited Supplemental Information
(In thousands, except per share data)
Reconciliation of GAAP Net Income (Loss) to Non-GAAP Net Income (Loss)
 
Pre-tax impact of items included in Condensed Consolidated Unaudited Statements of Operations
 
 
To supplement our condensed consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with GAAP, we provide certain non-GAAP financial information, which is adjusted from results based on GAAP to exclude certain costs and expenses, as well as other supplemental information. The non-GAAP and supplemental information is provided to enhance the user's overall understanding of our operating performance and our prospects in the future. Specifically, we believe that the non-GAAP information provides useful measures to both management and investors regarding financial and business trends relating to our financial performance by excluding certain costs and expenses that we believe are not indicative of our core operating results. The non-GAAP information is among the budgeting and planning tools that management uses for future forecasting. However, because there are no standardized or generally accepted definitions for most non-GAAP financial metrics, definitions of non-GAAP financial metrics (for example, determining which costs and expenses to exclude when calculating such a metric) are inherently subject to significant discretion. As a result, non-GAAP financial metrics may be defined very differently from company to company, or even from period to period within the same company, which can potentially limit the usefulness of such information to an investor. The presentation of non-GAAP and supplemental information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared and presented in accordance with United States GAAP.
 
 


