FILE:KLAC/KLAC-8K-20110712084356.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 8.01.    Other Events
 
On July 12, 2011, KLA-Tencor Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that the Company's Board of Directors had authorized an increase in the level of the Company's quarterly dividend from $0.25 to $0.35 per share. This increase is expected to take effect beginning with the Company's quarterly dividend to be declared in August 2011. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Forward Looking Statements: Statements in this Form 8-K and in the attached press release other than historical facts, such as statements regarding the anticipated future level of the Company's quarterly dividend, the Company's commitment to continue paying dividends at any level in the future, the Company's ability to maintain its market leadership position and successfully execute its long-term growth strategies, and the Company's future operating results and financial strength (including without limitation the Company's future cash flows and availability of cash for the payment of dividends), are forward-looking statements and are subject to the Safe Harbor provisions created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on current information and expectations, and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Actual future results and/or events may differ materially from those projected in such statements due to various factors, including without limitation: a change in the Company's dividend policy by the Company's Board of Directors (which has the ability in its sole discretion to increase, decrease or eliminate entirely the Company's dividend at any time); unanticipated material payment obligations incurred by the Company that decrease the Company's willingness or ability to continue paying dividends at the anticipated increased level, or at all; the financial condition of the global capital markets and the general macroeconomic environment; the demand for semiconductors; new and enhanced product offerings by competitors; the ability of the Company's research and development teams to successfully innovate and develop technology that is responsive to customer demands; and changing customer demands or technological requirements. For other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected and anticipated in forward-looking statements in this Form 8-K and in the attached press release, please refer to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2010, subsequently filed Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (including, but not limited to, the risk factors described therein). The Company assumes no obligation to, and does not currently intend to, update these forward-looking statements.
 
 
Item 9.01.    Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits
The following exhibit is filed herewith:
Exhibit No.                        Description                                                        
        99.1        Text of press release issued by KLA-Tencor Corporation dated July 12, 2011
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Ed Lockwood Sr. Director, Investor Relations (408) 875-9529 ed.lockwood@kla-tencor.com
Investor Relations:
Media Relations:
Meggan Powers Sr. Director, Corporate Communications (408) 875-8733 meggan.powers@kla-tencor.com
 
- KLA-Tencor Corporation (NASDAQ: KLAC) today announced that its board of directors has authorized an increase of the company's quarterly dividend from $0.25 to $0.35 per share. This increase is expected to take effect beginning with KLA-Tencor's quarterly dividend to be declared in August 2011. This represents a 40% increase compared to the prior quarterly dividend and is the third dividend increase since KLA-Tencor first instituted its dividend in April 2005.
MILPITAS, Calif., July 12
, 2011
in the level
"Since 2005, we have used our strong cash flows and solid balance sheet to return significant cash to KLA-Tencor's shareholders as part of our dividend program, while also providing the resources to execute our strategies for growth," said Rick Wallace, president and chief executive officer of KLA-Tencor. "This increase in the level of the dividend reflects our market leadership and management's confidence in our long-term strategies, as well as our commitment to rewarding shareholders for their investment in KLA-Tencor."
This announcement and other news regarding KLA-Tencor will be discussed later today, July 12, 2011, at the company's annual SEMICON West analyst briefing at the W San Francisco Hotel, with a live webcast beginning at 12:45 p.m. Pacific Daylight Time. The live webcast can be accessed through the Investors page of the KLA-Tencor website at http://ir.kla-tencor.com/.
 
About KLA-Tencor:
KLA-Tencor is the world leader in yield management and process control solutions for semiconductor manufacturing and related nanoelectronics industries. Headquartered in Milpitas, Calif., the company has sales and service offices around the world. An S&P 500 company, KLA-Tencor is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol KLAC. Additional information about the company is available at (KLAC-F).
http://www.kla-tencor.com
 
Forward Looking Statements
Statements in this press release other than historical facts, such as statements regarding the anticipated future level of KLA-Tencor's quarterly dividend, the company's commitment to continue paying dividends at any level in the future, KLA-Tencor's ability to maintain its market leadership position and successfully execute its long-term growth strategies, and the company's future operating results and financial strength (including without limitation the company's future cash flows and availability of cash for the payment of dividends), are forward-looking statements and are subject to the Safe Harbor provisions created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on current information and expectations, and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Actual future results and/or events may differ materially from those projected in such statements due to various factors, including without limitation: a change in KLA-Tencor's dividend policy by the company's Board of Directors (which has the ability in its sole discretion to increase, decrease or eliminate entirely the company's dividend at any time); unanticipated material payment obligations incurred by KLA-Tencor that decrease the company's willingness or ability to continue paying dividends at the anticipated increased level, or at all; the financial condition of the global capital markets and the general macroeconomic environment; the demand for semiconductors; new and enhanced product offerings by competitors; the ability of KLA-Tencor's research and development teams to successfully innovate and develop technology that is responsive to customer demands; and changing customer demands or technological requirements. For other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected and anticipated in forward-looking statements in this release, please refer to KLA-Tencor's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2010, subsequently filed Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (including, but not limited to, the risk factors described therein). KLA-Tencor assumes no obligation to, and does not currently intend to, update these forward-looking statements.


