FILE:F/F-8K-20040720082538.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits.
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     Our news release dated July 20, 2004 and supplemental financial information, concerning second quarter 2004 financial results, filed as Exhibits 99.1 through 99.9, respectively, to this report, are incorporated by reference herein.
     Ford Motor Company will conduct two conference calls on July 20, 2004 to review second quarter 2004 results.
     Don Leclair, Ford's Group Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, will host a conference call with the investment community and the news media that will begin at 9:00 a.m. to review our second quarter 2004 results. Investors can access this conference call by dialing 800-599-9795 (617-786-2905 for international dial-in) or on the Internet at . The passcode for both numbers is a verbal response of "Ford Earnings Call".
www.shareholder.ford.com
     Malcolm Macdonald, Ford's Vice President and Treasurer, and David Cosper, Ford Motor Credit Company's Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer, will host a second conference call with fixed income investors beginning at 11:00 a.m. Investors can access this conference call by dialing 800-599-9795 (617-786-2905 for international dial-in). The passcode for both numbers is a verbal response of "Ford Fixed Income".
Table of Contents
     Investors can access replays of these calls by visiting one of the following web sites: or or by dialing 888-286-8010 (617-801-6888 for international dial-in), passcode 29481628 for the 9:00 a.m. call and passcode 55865600 for the 11:00 a.m. call. The times referenced above are Eastern Time.
www.shareholder.ford.com
www.streetevents.com
     Exhibits 99.1, 99.8 and 99.9 to this report contain certain "non-GAAP financial measures" as defined in Item 10 of Regulation S-K of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The non-GAAP financial measures include financial results excluding special items and operating-related cash flows in respect of our Automotive sector, and managed leverage and credit loss ratios in respect of our subsidiary, Ford Motor Credit Company ("Ford Credit"). Each of these non-GAAP financial measures is discussed below, including the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States ("GAAP") and the reasons why we believe the presentation of the non-GAAP financial measure provides useful information to our investors.
     The exhibits discuss our operating-related cash flows before contributions to trusts to fund pension and health care obligations and before tax refunds for the second quarter and first half of 2004 and our milestone for operating-related cash flow for 2004. The exhibits indicate that we had positive operating cash flow before contributions and tax refunds of $0.1 billion for the second quarter of 2004 and $2.4 billion for the first half of 2004. The most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP to this cash flow measure is Cash Flows from Operating Activities Before Securities Trading. Slide 17 of Exhibit 99.8 and the appendix (pages 13 and 14 of 14) to Exhibit 99.8 combine to provide a reconciliation of our non-GAAP operating cash flow measure and Cash Flows from Operating Activities Before Securities Trading. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Before Securities Trading was $1.0 billion for the second quarter of 2004 and $3.6 billion for the first half of 2004. We believe the non-GAAP operating cash flow before contributions and tax refunds measure is useful to investors because it includes cash flow elements not included in Cash Flows from Operating Activities Before Securities Trading that we consider to be related to our operating activities (for example, capital spending). As a result, our operating cash flow measure provides investors with a more relevant measure of the cash generated by our operations.
Operating-related Cash Flows.
Table of Contents
     The exhibits discuss second quarter and first half 2004 pre-tax profits excluding special items for our Automotive sector and each of our primary operating segments and business units within the Automotive sector. The most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP to this measure is pre-tax profits including the special items. We believe that pre-tax profits excluding special items is useful to investors because it excludes elements that we do not consider to be indicative of earnings from our on-going operating activities. As a result, pre-tax profits excluding special items provides investors with a more relevant measure of the results generated by our operations. Slide 3 to Exhibit 99.8 includes a list of the special items and their impact on our second quarter 2004 results and appendix page 2 of 14 includes a list of the special items and their impact on our first half 2004 results. The table below sets forth the pre-tax profits for our Automotive sector, each of the operating segments and business units within our Automotive sector, and our Financial Services sector, both including and excluding the special items for the second quarter of 2004.
Financial Results Excluding Special Items.
2003  2004 SECOND QUARTER PRE-TAX RESULTS
     The exhibits discuss Ford Credit's leverage (i.e., debt-to-equity ratio) on both a financial statement and managed basis. Financial statement leverage is the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP to our non-GAAP managed leverage financial measure. The appendices to the exhibits contain a reconciliation of Ford Credit's non-GAAP managed leverage measure to its financial statement leverage. The appendices indicate that Ford Credit's financial statement and managed leverage at June 30, 2004 were 11.4 and 12.7 to 1, respectively. We believe that the use of the non-GAAP managed leverage measure, which is the result of several adjustments to Ford Credit's financial statement leverage, is useful to investors because it reflects the way Ford Credit manages its business. Ford Credit retains interests in receivables sold in off-balance sheet securitization transactions, and, with respect to subordinated retained interests, has credit risk. Accordingly, it considers securitization as an alternative source of funding and
Managed Leverage.
Table of Contents
evaluates credit losses, receivables and leverage on a managed as well as on a financial statement basis. As a result, the managed leverage measure provides our investors with meaningful information regarding management's decision-making processes.
     In calculating its managed leverage ratio, Ford Credit adds the total amount of receivables sold in off-balance sheet securitizations, net of retained interests, to its debt. It also deducts cash and cash equivalents because these generally correspond to excess debt beyond the amount required to support Ford Credit's financing operations. It adds minority interests to equity because all of the debt of such consolidated entities is included in total debt. It excludes the impact of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133 in both the numerator and the denominator in order to exclude the interim effects of changes in market rates because Ford Credit generally repays its debt funding obligations as they mature.
     . Exhibit 99.9 discusses Ford Credit's loss to receivables ratios on an "on-balance sheet" and a managed basis. Exhibit 99.9 indicates that Ford Credit's total on-balance sheet credit loss ratio was 1.07% (including credit losses on reacquired receivables) and was 1.03% (excluding credit losses on reacquired receivables) for the second quarter of 2004. Exhibit 99.9 further indicates that Ford Credit's on-balance sheet credit loss ratio for its U.S. retail and lease business was 1.21% (including credit losses on reacquired receivables) and was 1.13% (excluding credit losses on reacquired receivables) for the second quarter of 2004. A loss-to-receivables ratio equals net credit losses divided by the average amount of net receivables outstanding for the period. The receivables that were reacquired in the second quarter of 2003 are those of FCAR Owner Trust ("FCAR"), an entity integral to a Ford Credit asset-backed commercial paper program. FCAR was consolidated for financial statement purposes with Ford Credit in the second quarter of 2003. The financial measure that is most directly comparable to these loss-to-receivables ratios and that is calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP is the on-balance sheet credit loss ratio excluding losses on the reacquired FCAR receivables. We believe that the use of the non-GAAP on-balance sheet credit loss ratio is useful to investors because it provides a more complete representation of our actual on-balance sheet credit loss experience.
Loss-to-Receivables Ratio
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized on the date indicated.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
IMMEDIATE RELEASE
FORD ANNOUNCES SECOND QUARTER FINANCIAL RESULTS
DEARBORN, Mich., July 20  Ford Motor Company [NYSE: F] today reported net income of 57 cents per share, or $1.2 billion, for the second quarter of 2004. This compares with net income of 22 cents per share, or $417 million, in the second quarter of 2003.
Ford's second-quarter earnings from continuing operations, excluding special items, were 61 cents per share, or $1.3 billion. This result exceeds the First Call consensus estimate of 50 cents per share.
Ford's total sales and revenue in the second quarter rose to $42.8 billion from $40.6 billion in the year-ago period.
     Go to for news releases and high-resolution photographs.
http://media.ford.com
 
"I am pleased that we continue to make solid progress in this extremely competitive environment," said Bill Ford, chairman and chief executive officer. "Although the remainder of the year includes many challenges, we'll generate lots of excitement with the introduction of new products such as the Ford Five Hundred, Freestyle and Escape Hybrid, the Land Rover Discovery/LR3 and the new Ford Focus in Europe."
Additional product introductions for the rest of the year include Ford F-Series Super Duty, GT and Mustang as well as Mercury Mariner and Montego.
AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR
On a pre-tax basis, Ford's worldwide automotive sector reported a loss of $57 million during the second quarter of 2004. Excluding special items of $140 million, worldwide automotive profit in the second quarter was $83 million, an $80 million improvement over the same period a year ago. The special items included a $120 million charge in North America related to the restructuring and revaluation of our investment in Ballard Power Systems [NASDAQ: BLDP; TSX: BLD], a leading fuel cell manufacturer, and $20 million for the completion of restructuring in Ford Europe.
Worldwide automotive sales for the second quarter rose to $36.7 billion from $34.1 billion in the same period last year. Worldwide vehicle-unit sales in the quarter were 1,748,000, up from 1,718,000 a year ago.
Automotive cash, marketable securities, loaned securities and short-term Voluntary Employee Beneficiary Association (VEBA) assets on June 30, 2004 were $26.8 billion, up from $26.5 billion at the end of the first quarter.
THE AMERICAS
For the second quarter, the Americas reported a pre-tax profit of $477 million, excluding special items, up $101 million from the same period a year ago.
     Go to for news releases and high-resolution photographs.
http://media.ford.com
 
Ford's North America automotive pre-tax profit for the second quarter was $455 million, excluding special items, up $10 million from a year ago. The increase primarily reflected improved vehicle mix and favorable net pricing, partially offset by lower volumes and the non-recurrence of favorable 2003 warranty reserve adjustments. Sales were $20.5 billion, down from $20.7 billion in the same period a year ago.
North America:
Ford's South America operations reported a second-quarter pre-tax profit of $22 million, a $91 million improvement from the 2003 second quarter. The improvement primarily reflected favorable pricing and higher vehicle volumes, partially offset by higher material costs. Sales improved to $665 million from $435 million in the same period a year ago.
South America:
FORD EUROPE AND PREMIER AUTOMOTIVE GROUP (PAG)
The 2004 second-quarter combined pre-tax loss for Ford Europe and PAG was $151 million, excluding special items, compared with a loss of $359 million for the year-ago period, a year-over-year improvement of $208 million.
Ford Europe's second-quarter pre-tax profit was $211 million, excluding special items, compared with a pre-tax loss of $525 million during the 2003 period. The improvement of more than $700 million primarily reflected higher volumes and lower costs. Ford Europe's sales in the second quarter were $6.7 billion, compared with $5.2 billion during the second quarter of 2003.
Ford Europe:
PAG reported a pre-tax loss of $362 million for the second quarter, compared with a pre-tax profit of $166 million for the second quarter of 2003. The decline in results primarily reflected unfavorable exchange rates, higher costs including the effects of product changeovers, unfavorable mix and lower net pricing. Second-quarter sales for PAG were $6.9 billion, compared with $6.4 billion a year ago.
Premier Automotive Group:
     Go to for news releases and high-resolution photographs.
http://media.ford.com
 
FORD ASIA-PACIFIC, AFRICA, MAZDA AND ASSOCIATED OPERATIONS
The 2004 second-quarter combined pre-tax profit for Ford Asia-Pacific, Africa, Mazda and Associated Operations was $55 million, compared with $17 million for the year-ago period, a year-over-year improvement of $38 million.
For the second quarter of 2004, Ford Asia-Pacific and Africa reported a combined pre-tax loss of $5 million, an improvement of $23 million from the same period a year ago. The improvement primarily reflected favorable exchange rates and stronger volume and mix, partially offset by higher costs and unfavorable net pricing. Sales rose to $1.9 billion, compared with $1.4 billion during the second quarter of 2003.
Ford Asia-Pacific and Africa:
During the second quarter of 2004, Ford's share of Mazda and Associated Operations was a combined pre-tax profit of $60 million, compared with $45 million a year ago.
Mazda and Associated Operations:
FORD CREDIT
Ford Motor Credit Company reported record net income of $897 million in the second quarter of 2004, up $496 million from $401 million a year earlier. On a pre-tax basis from continuing operations, Ford Credit earned $1.4 billion in the second quarter, compared with $661 million in the previous year. The increase in earnings primarily reflected continued improved credit loss performance, higher used vehicle prices and the favorable impact of the low interest rate environment.
HERTZ
Hertz reported a pre-tax profit of $144 million in the second quarter compared with a $57 million profit during the same period a year ago. The improvement primarily reflected higher rental car volume in leisure and commercial segments, higher profit from the disposal of used vehicles and equipment sales, and favorable cost performance. The improvements were partially offset by lower pricing in highly competitive car rental markets worldwide.
     Go to for news releases and high-resolution photographs.
http://media.ford.com
 
OUTLOOK
"When you look at our second-quarter results you see continued strong performance in Financial Services and significant progress at Ford Europe, where actions we took last year have begun to pay off," said Chief Financial Officer Don Leclair. "Looking forward, we remain dedicated to achieving our financial milestones in this competitive marketplace and continuing to improve our balance sheet."
For the third quarter of 2004, Ford expects to earn in a range of breakeven to 5 cents per share from continuing operations, excluding special items.
Ford is increasing its full-year earnings guidance by 15 cents per share to a range of $1.80 to $1.90 per share from continuing operations, excluding special items. The increase primarily reflects the strong performance of the company's Financial Services sector. Special items, which are presently estimated to reduce full-year earnings by 8 cents per share, are expected to consist primarily of the restructuring and revaluation of our Ballard investment and completed European restructuring actions.
Investors and media can hear a review of second quarter results by Don Leclair via conference call at 800-599-9795 (617-786-2905 for international dial-in) with a verbal passcode of "Ford Earnings Call" or on the Internet at http://www.shareholder.ford.com. Supporting presentation material will be available at the same Internet address. The presentation will begin at 9:00 a.m. EDT, July 20.
Ford Motor Company, a global automotive industry leader based in Dearborn, Mich., manufactures and distributes automobiles in 200 markets across six continents. With more than 327,000 employees worldwide, the company's core and affiliated automotive brands include Aston Martin, Ford, Jaguar, Land Rover, Lincoln, Mazda, Mercury and Volvo. Its automotive-related services include Ford Credit, Quality Care and Hertz.
     Go to for news releases and high-resolution photographs.
http://media.ford.com
 
Statements included herein may constitute "forward looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated, including, without limitation:
     Go to for news releases and high-resolution photographs.
http://media.ford.com

 
Exhibit 99.2

 
Exhibit 99.3

 
Exhibit 99.4

 
Exhibit 99.5

 
Exhibit 99.6

 
Exhibit 99.7

 
EXHIBIT 99.8
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.9
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


