FILE:F/F-8K-20040917140906.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Material Impairments	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Material Impairments
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Table of Contents
Item 2.05. Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities.
     On September 17, 2004, Ford Motor Company committed to plans to close the final assembly operations at Browns Lane in Coventry, England and reduce salaried staffing levels at its Jaguar operations. Browns Lane is currently used for final assembly of Jaguar XJ and Jaguar XK model cars. As a result of this action, and in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we will incur pre-tax charges and cash expenditures estimated at approximately $175 million for employee separation costs.
     See our related press release and investor presentation, filed as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively, and incorporated by reference herein, for a discussion of the facts and circumstances surrounding this action.
Item 2.06. Material Impairments.
     On September 17, 2004, Ford Motor Company decided to exit Formula One racing and to sell its Formula One racing operations within the next year, as market conditions warrant. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, those racing operations are being classified as discontinued operations and we will incur an impairment charge estimated at about $275 million pre-tax.
     See our related press release and investor presentation, filed as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively, and incorporated by reference herein, for a discussion of the facts and circumstances surrounding this action.
Item 8.01. Other Events.
     See our press release and investor presentation, filed as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively, and incorporated by reference herein, for a discussion of our updated third-quarter and full-year earnings guidance. The exhibits discuss our updated earnings guidance on a per share basis that excludes results from discontinued operations and excludes special items. The most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles to this measure is earnings per share on a basis that includes results from discontinued operations and includes special items. We believe the earnings per share measure excluding results from discontinued operations and excluding special items is useful to investors because it excludes elements that we do not consider indicative of earnings from our on-going operating activities and, accordingly, provides investors with a more relevant measure of the results of our operations.
Table of Contents
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
FORD ANNOUNCES DETAILS OF JAGUAR IMPROVEMENT ACTIONS; INCREASES EARNINGS GUIDANCE FOR 2004
DEARBORN, Mich., September 17, 2004  Ford Motor Company and its Jaguar Cars unit announced today improvement actions for Jaguar and, separately, an increase in its third-quarter and full-year financial guidance for 2004.
In a separate release issued earlier today, Jaguar Cars announced a series of actions aimed at improving its business fundamentals. (See the Jaguar Cars release, dated September 17, 2004, for complete details.) The actions included:
The personnel reductions and the Formula One decision together are estimated to result in a charge to pre-tax income of approximately $450 million. Of this, it is expected that
 
approximately $375 million of these charges are to occur this year, with the remainder occurring next year. Together with previously announced 2004 special items, these actions are expected to reduce full-year 2004 earnings by about 25 cents per share.
Separately, the company announced it is raising its third-quarter earnings guidance by 10 cents per share, from a range of breakeven to 5 cents per share to a range of 10 to 15 cents per share, in each case from continuing operations, excluding special items.
As a result, full-year earnings now are expected to be in the range of $1.90 to $2.00 per share, compared with previous guidance of $1.80 to $1.90 per share, in each case from continuing operations, excluding special items. The improvement primarily reflects continued strong performance in Financial Services and improved cost performance in the Automotive Sector, partially offset by lower production at Jaguar.
The Company will host a conference to discuss these developments beginning at 8.30 a.m. EDT today, with Don Leclair, Chief Financial Officer; Mark Fields, Executive Vice President, Premier Automotive Group and Ford of Europe; and Joe Greenwell, Chairman and CEO of Jaguar and Land Rover. Participants can access the call by dialing 800-237-9752. (International dial-in number is 617-847-8706.) The pass code for both numbers is a verbal response of "Ford Business Update." A listen-only web cast also will be available on the Internet at www.shareholder.ford.com. Supporting presentation materials will be available shortly before the call begins at the same web site address. Teleconference participants will have an opportunity to ask questions following the presentation.
Replays of the call will be available through Friday, September 24, by dialing 888-286-8010 with passcode 95842917. The international access number for the replay is 617-801-6888 with the same passcode. Replays will also be available at http://www.shareholder.ford.com.
 
Statements included herein may constitute "forward looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated, including, without limitation:

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


