FILE:F/F-8K-20040421082539.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits.
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     Our news release dated April 21, 2004 and supplemental financial information, concerning first quarter 2004 financial results, filed as Exhibits 99.1 through 99.9, respectively, to this report, are incorporated by reference herein.
     Ford Motor Company will conduct two conference calls on April 21, 2004 to review first quarter 2004 results.
     Don Leclair, Ford's Group Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, will host a conference call with the investment community and the news media that will begin at 9:00 a.m. to review our first quarter 2004 results. Investors can access this conference call by dialing 800-299-7635 (617-786-2901 for international dial-in) or on the Internet at . The passcode for both numbers is a verbal response of "Ford Earnings Call".
www.shareholder.ford.com
     Malcolm Macdonald, Ford's Vice President and Treasurer, Jim Gouin, Ford's Vice President and Controller, and David Cosper, Ford Motor Credit Company's Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer will host a second conference call with fixed income investors beginning at 11:00 a.m. Investors can access this conference call by dialing 800-299-7635 (617-786-2901 for international dial-in). The passcode for both numbers is a verbal response of "Ford Fixed Income".
Table of Contents
     Investors can access replays of these calls by visiting one of the following web sites: or or by dialing 888-286-8010 (617-801-6888 for international dial-in), passcode 44456529 for the 9:00 a.m. call and passcode 33675945 for the 11:00 a.m. call. The times referenced above are Eastern Time.
www.shareholder.ford.com
www.streetevents.com
     Exhibits 99.1, 99.8 and 99.9 to this report contain certain "non-GAAP financial measures" as defined in Item 10 of Regulation S-K of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The non-GAAP financial measures include financial results excluding special items, net pricing and operating-related cash flows in respect of our Automotive sector, and managed leverage and credit loss ratios in respect of our subsidiary, Ford Motor Credit Company ("Ford Credit"). Each of these non-GAAP financial measures is discussed below, including the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States ("GAAP") and the reasons why we believe the presentation of the non-GAAP financial measure provides useful information to our investors.
     The exhibits discuss our operating-related cash flows before contributions to trusts to fund pension and health care obligations and before tax refunds for the first quarter of 2004 and our milestone for operating-related cash flow for 2004. The exhibits indicate that we had positive operating cash flow before contributions and tax refunds of $2.3 billion for the first quarter of 2004. The most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP to this cash flow measure is Cash Flows from Operating Activities Before Securities Trading. Slide 17 of Exhibit 99.8 and the appendix (pages 12 and 13 of 13) to Exhibit 99.8 combine to provide a reconciliation of our non-GAAP operating cash flow measure and Cash Flows from Operating Activities Before Securities Trading. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Before Securities Trading was $2.6 billion for the first quarter of 2004. We believe the non-GAAP operating cash flow before contributions and tax refunds measure is useful to investors because it includes cash flow elements not included in Cash Flows from Operating Activities Before Securities Trading that we consider to be related to our operating activities (for example, capital spending). As a result, our operating cash flow measure provides investors with a more relevant measure of the cash generated by our operations.
Operating-Related Cash Flows.
     The exhibits indicate a change in net pricing in North America for the first quarter of 2004 was a positive 1.2%. The most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP to this net pricing measure is the period-over-period change in Automotive Sales. The period-over-period change in Automotive Sales is affected by changes in unit sales volume, product mix, foreign exchange rates, wholesale prices for vehicles sold and marketing incentives. The net pricing measure (which measures the combined effect of changes in wholesale prices and marketing incentives, while excluding the effects of changes in unit sales volumes, product mix, and foreign exchange rates) is useful to investors because it provides an indication of the underlying direction of changes in revenue in one performance measure. The change in Automotive Sales on a per unit basis for the first quarter of 2004 compared with for the first quarter of 2003 was an increase of 5.9% for North America. The appendix (page 7 of 13) to Exhibit 99.8 contains a reconciliation of the change in net pricing for the first quarter of 2004 compared with the first quarter of 2003 to the change in Automotive Sales for the same periods.
Net Pricing.
Table of Contents
     The exhibits discuss first quarter 2004 pre-tax profits excluding special items for our Automotive Sector and each of our primary operating segments and business units within the Automotive sector. The most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP to this measure is pre-tax profits including the special items. We believe that pre-tax profits excluding special items is useful to investors because it excludes elements that we do not consider to be indicative of earnings from our on-going operating activities. As a result, pre-tax profits excluding special items provides investors with a more relevant measure of the results generated by our operations. The appendix (page 2 of 13) to Exhibit 99.8 includes a list of the special items and their impact on our first quarter 2004 results. The table below sets forth the pre-tax profits for our Automotive sector, each of the operating segments and business units within our Automotive sector, and our Financial Services sector, both including and excluding the special items for the first quarter of 2004.
Financial Results Excluding Special Items.
     The exhibits discuss Ford Credit's leverage (i.e., debt-to-equity ratio) on both a financial statement and managed basis. Financial statement leverage is the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP to our non-GAAP managed leverage financial measure. The appendices to the exhibits contain a reconciliation of Ford Credit's non-GAAP managed leverage measure to its financial statement leverage. The exhibits indicate that Ford Credit's financial statement and managed leverage at March 31, 2004 were 11.6 and 12.8 to 1, respectively. We believe that the use of the non-GAAP managed leverage measure, which is the result of several adjustments to Ford Credit's financial statement leverage, is useful to investors because it reflects the way Ford Credit manages its business. Ford Credit retains interests in receivables sold in off-balance sheet securitization transactions, and, with respect to subordinated retained interests, has credit risk. Accordingly, it considers securitization as an alternative source of funding and evaluates
Managed Leverage.
Table of Contents
credit losses, receivables and leverage on a managed as well as on a financial statement basis. As a result, the managed leverage measure provides our investors with meaningful information regarding management's decision-making processes.
     In calculating its managed leverage ratio, Ford Credit adds the total amount of receivables sold in off-balance sheet securitizations, net of retained interests, to its debt. It also deducts cash and cash equivalents because these generally correspond to excess debt beyond the amount required to support Ford Credit's financing operations. It adds minority interests to equity because all of the debt of such consolidated entities is included in total debt. It excludes the impact of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133 in both the numerator and the denominator in order to exclude the interim effects of changes in market rates because Ford Credit generally repays its debt funding obligations as they mature.
     . The exhibits discuss Ford Credit's loss to receivables ratios on an "on-balance sheet" and a managed basis. The exhibits indicate that Ford Credit's total on-balance sheet credit loss ratio was 1.11% (including credit losses on reacquired receivables) and was 1.03% (excluding credit losses on reacquired receivables) for the first quarter of 2004. The exhibits further indicate that Ford Credit's on-balance sheet credit loss ratio for its U.S. retail and lease business was 1.49% (including credit losses on reacquired receivables) and was 1.34% (excluding credit losses on reacquired receivables) for the first quarter of 2004. A loss-to-receivables ratio equals net credit losses divided by the average amount of net receivables outstanding for the period. The receivables that were reacquired in the second quarter of 2003 are those of FCAR Owner Trust ("FCAR"), an entity integral to a Ford Credit asset-backed commercial paper program. FCAR was consolidated for financial statement purposes with Ford Credit in the second quarter of 2003. The financial measure that is most directly comparable to these loss-to-receivables ratios and that is calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP is the on-balance sheet credit loss ratio excluding losses on the reacquired FCAR receivables. We believe that the use of the non-GAAP on-balance sheet credit loss ratio is useful to investors because it provides a more complete representation of our actual on-balance sheet credit loss experience.
Loss-to-Receivables Ratio
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized on the date indicated.
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 99.1a
NEWS
IMMEDIATE RELEASE
FORD ANNOUNCES FIRST QUARTER FINANCIAL RESULTS
DEARBORN, Mich., April 21  Ford Motor Company [NYSE: F] today reported net income of 94 cents per share, or $1,952 million, for the first quarter of 2004. This compares with net income of 45 cents per share, or $896 million, in the first quarter of 2003.
Ford's first-quarter earnings from continuing operations excluding special items were 96 cents per share, or $1,983 million. This result exceeds the First Call consensus estimate of analysts of 44 cents per share.
Ford's total sales and revenue in the first quarter rose to $44.7 billion from $40.8 billion in the year-ago period.
 
"This is the best quarter we have achieved since we began our back-to-basics efforts more than two years ago, and it clearly demonstrates our plan is working and building momentum," said Bill Ford, chairman and chief executive officer. "As we showed at the New York Auto Show, our product lineup continues to strengthen with new vehicles such as the Ford Escape Hybrid, Ford Mustang and Land Rover LR3/Discovery."
On a pre-tax basis, Ford's worldwide automotive sector reported a profit of $1,806 million during the first quarter of 2004. Excluding special items of $12 million, worldwide automotive profits in the first quarter were $1,818 million, a $1,156 million improvement over the same period a year ago. The special items included $29 million for restructuring in Ford Europe and a $17 million gain related to a prior divestiture.
AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR
Worldwide automotive sales for the first quarter rose more than 13 percent, or $4.6 billion, to $38.8 billion. Worldwide vehicle-unit sales in the quarter were 1,788,000, up from 1,704,000 a year ago.
Automotive cash, marketable securities, loaned securities and short-term Voluntary Employee Beneficiary Association (VEBA) assets on March 31, 2004 were $26.5 billion, up from $25.9 billion on December 31, 2003.
For the first quarter, the Americas reported a pre-tax profit of $1,977 million, up $772 million from the same period a year ago.
THE AMERICAS
Ford's North America automotive pre-tax profit for the first quarter was $1,962 million, up from $1,236 million a year ago. The increase primarily reflected favorable cost performance, improved vehicle mix and favorable net pricing. Sales increased to $23.3 billion from $22.2 billion in the same period a year ago.
North America:
 
Ford's South America operations reported a first-quarter pre-tax profit of $15 million, a $46 million improvement from the 2003 first quarter. The improvement primarily reflected improved pricing, favorable mix and higher vehicle volumes. Sales were $650 million, up $320 million from the same period a year ago.
South America:
The 2004 first-quarter pre-tax profit for International was $107 million, excluding special items, compared with a loss of $319 million for the year-ago period, a year-over-year improvement of $426 million.
INTERNATIONAL
Ford Europe's first-quarter pre-tax profit was $5 million, excluding special items, compared with a pre-tax loss of $247 million during the 2003 period. The improvement primarily reflected favorable cost performance; stronger industry sales, particularly in Turkey; and favorable net pricing, partially offset by unfavorable exchange rates. Ford Europe's sales in the first quarter were $6.5 billion, compared with $5 billion during the first quarter of 2003.
Ford Europe:
PAG reported a pre-tax profit of $20 million for the first quarter, compared with a pre-tax loss of $88 million for the first quarter of 2003. The improvement primarily reflected lower costs, higher volume and positive net pricing, partially offset by unfavorable exchange rates. First-quarter sales for PAG were $6.8 billion, compared with $5.4 billion a year ago.
Premier Automotive Group (PAG):
During the first quarter of 2004, Ford Asia-Pacific reported a pre-tax profit of $28 million, compared with a pre-tax loss of $25 million in the same period a year ago. The improvement primarily reflected favorable exchange rates and cost reductions. Sales rose to $1.6 billion, compared with $1.3 billion during the first quarter of 2003.
Ford Asia-Pacific:
 
Ford Motor Credit Company reported net income of $688 million in the first quarter of 2004, up $246 million from earnings of $442 million a year earlier. On a pre-tax basis from continuing operations, Ford Credit earned $1.1 billion in the first quarter, compared with $727 million in the previous year. The increase in earnings primarily reflected improved credit loss performance, higher used vehicle prices and the favorable impact of the present low interest rate environment.
FORD CREDIT
Hertz reported a pre-tax loss of $7 million in the first quarter, compared with a $59 million loss during the same period a year ago. The improvement is primarily due to improved rental car demand, offset partly by unfavorable pricing.
HERTZ
"We are very pleased with our first-quarter results across all our automotive and financial services operations," said Don Leclair, chief financial officer. "Our efforts to improve our quality and our business structure are continuing to pay off, and our strong pipeline of new products gives us continued confidence that we are on the right track."
OUTLOOK
For these reasons, Ford is raising its full-year earnings guidance from a range of $1.20 to $1.30 per share to a range of $1.50 to $1.60 per share from continuing operations, excluding special items, which are presently estimated to reduce earnings by about 7 cents per share.
For the second quarter of 2004, Ford expects to earn 30 to 35 cents per share from continuing operations, excluding special items.
Investors and media can hear a review of first quarter results by Don Leclair via conference call at 800-299-7635 (617-786-2901 for international dial-in) or on the Internet at Supporting presentation material will be available at the same Internet address. The presentation will begin at 9:00 a.m. EDT, April 21.
http://www.shareholder.ford.com.
 
Ford Motor Company, a global automotive industry leader based in Dearborn, Mich., manufactures and distributes automobiles in 200 markets across six continents. With more than 327,000 employees worldwide, the company's core and affiliated automotive brands include Aston Martin, Ford, Jaguar, Land Rover, Lincoln, Mazda, Mercury and Volvo. Its automotive-related services include Ford Credit, Quality Care and Hertz. Ford Motor Company celebrated its 100 anniversary on June 16, 2003.
th
Statements included herein may constitute "forward looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated, including, without limitation:

 
Exhibit 99.2

 
Exhibit 99.3

 
Exhibit 99.4

 
Exhibit 99.5

 
Exhibit 99.6

 
Exhibit 99.7

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


