FILE:F/F-8K-20041019085504.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     Ford Motor Company ("Ford") hereby incorporates by reference its news release dated October 19, 2004 and supplemental financial information concerning third quarter 2004 financial results, furnished as Exhibits 99.1 through 99.9 to this report.
     Ford will conduct two conference calls on October 19, 2004 to review third quarter 2004 financial results. Don Leclair, Ford's Group Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, hosts a conference call with the investment community and the news media beginning at 9:00 a.m. to review third quarter 2004 financial results. Investors may access this conference call by dialing 800-599-9795 (or 617-786-2905 if dialing from outside the United States). The passcode for either telephone number is a verbal response of "Ford Earnings Call".
     Malcolm Macdonald, Ford's Vice President and Treasurer, David Cosper, Ford Motor Credit Company's Vice Chairman, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, and Jim Gouin, Ford's Vice President and Controller will host a second conference call with fixed income investors beginning at 11:00 a.m. Investors may access this conference call by dialing 800-599-9795 (or 617-786-2905 if dialing from outside the United States). The passcode for either telephone number is a verbal response of "Ford Fixed Income".
     A listen-only webcast, and supporting presentation materials for each call, will be available on the Internet at . Investors may also access replays of the calls by visiting , or by dialing 888-286-8010 (617-801-6888 if dialing from outside the United States) through October 26. The passcode for replay of the 9:00 a.m. call is 29481628; the passcode for replay of the 11:00 a.m. call is 55865600. All times referenced above are in Eastern Time.
www.shareholder.ford.com
www.shareholder.ford.com
     Exhibits 99.1, 99.8 and 99.9 to this report contain certain "non-GAAP financial measures" as defined in Item 10 of Regulation S-K of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The non-GAAP financial measures include the following: operating-related cash flow for Ford's Automotive sector, financial results that exclude special items, and managed leverage and credit loss ratios for our subsidiary, Ford Motor Credit Company ("Ford Motor Credit"). Each of these non-GAAP financial measures is discussed below, along with the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States ("GAAP"), and the reason we believe the presentation of each non-GAAP financial measure provides useful information to investors.
      The exhibits hereto discuss operating-related cash flow before contributions to trusts (funding pension and health care obligations) and before tax refunds for the third quarter and for the first nine months of 2004. The exhibits also include a milestone for operating-related cash flow for 2004. The exhibits hereto indicate that our Automotive sector had negative operating-related cash flow before contributions and tax refunds for the third quarter of negative $2.9 billion, and for the first nine months of 2004 of negative $0.5 billion. The most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP is Cash Flow from Operating Activities before Securities Trading for our Automotive sector. Slide 17 and the Appendix (pages 13 and 14) to Exhibit 99.8 combine to provide a reconciliation of non-GAAP operating-related cash flow to Cash Flow from
Operating-Related Cash Flow.
Table of Contents
Operating Activities before Securities Trading. Cash Flow from Operating Activities before Securities Trading for our Automotive sector was a negative $2.2 billion for the third quarter of 2004, and a positive $1.4 billion for the first nine months of 2004. We believe that the non-GAAP measure of operating-related cash flow before contributions and tax refunds is useful to investors because it includes cash flow elements not included in the GAAP measure of Cash Flow from Operating Activities before Securities Trading for our Automotive sector which we consider to be related to operating activities (for example, capital spending). Consequently, operating-related cash flow provides investors with a more relevant measure of the cash generated by Ford's Automotive operations than the GAAP measure of Cash Flow from Operating Activities before Securities Trading.
     The exhibits hereto also discuss pre-tax profits for the third quarter and first nine months of 2004, excluding special items for Ford's Automotive sector and each of the primary operating segments and business units within the Automotive sector. The most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP is pre-tax profits including special items. Ford believes that pre-tax profits excluding special items is a useful measure to provide investors, because it excludes those items that Ford does not consider to be indicative of earnings from ongoing operating activities. As a result, pre-tax profits excluding special items provides investors with a more relevant measure of the results generated by our operations. Slide 3 to Exhibit 99.8 includes a list of the special items and their impact on third quarter 2004 results. The Appendix (page 4) demonstrates the impact of special items on results for the first nine months of 2004. Additionally, the table below sets forth pre-tax profits for our Automotive sector for each of the operating segments and business units within our Automotive sector, and for our Financial Services sector (both including and excluding special items) for the third quarter of 2004.
Financial Results Excluding Special Items.
 
Table of Contents
      The exhibits hereto also discuss Ford Motor Credit's leverage (i.e., debt-to-equity ratio) on both a financial statement and managed basis. Financial statement leverage is the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP to the non-GAAP managed leverage financial measure. The appendices to the exhibits hereto contain a reconciliation of Ford Motor Credit's non-GAAP managed leverage measure to its financial statement leverage. The appendices indicate that Ford Motor Credit's financial statement and managed leverage at September 30, 2004 were 11.8 and 13.2 to 1, respectively. We believe that the use of the non-GAAP managed leverage measure, which is the result of several adjustments to Ford Motor Credit's financial statement leverage, is useful to investors because it reflects the way Ford Motor Credit manages its business. Ford Motor Credit retains interests in receivables sold in off-balance sheet securitization transactions, and, with respect to subordinated retained interests, has credit risk. Accordingly, Ford Motor Credit considers securitization as an alternative source of funding and evaluates credit losses, receivables and leverage on a managed as well as on a financial statement basis. As a result, the managed leverage measure provides investors with meaningful information regarding management's decision-making processes.
Managed Leverage.
     In calculating its managed leverage ratio, Ford Motor Credit adds the total amount of receivables sold in off-balance sheet securitizations, net of retained interests, to its debt. It also deducts cash and cash equivalents because these generally correspond to excess debt beyond the amount required to support Ford Motor Credit's financing operations. It adds minority interests to equity because all of the debt of such consolidated entities is included in total debt. It excludes the impact of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133 in both the numerator and the denominator in order to exclude the interim effects of changes in market rates, because Ford Motor Credit generally repays its debt funding obligations as they mature.
      Exhibit 99.9 discusses Ford Motor Credit's loss to receivables ratios on an "on-balance sheet" and a managed basis. Exhibit 99.9 indicates that Ford Motor Credit's total on-balance sheet credit loss ratio was 1.13% (including credit losses on reacquired receivables) and was 1.07% (excluding credit losses on reacquired receivables) for the third quarter of 2004. Exhibit 99.9 further indicates that Ford Motor Credit's on-balance sheet credit loss ratio for its U.S. retail and lease business was 1.47% (including credit losses on reacquired receivables) and was 1.36% (excluding credit losses on reacquired receivables) for the third quarter of 2004. A loss-to-receivables ratio equals net credit losses divided by the average amount of net receivables outstanding for the period. The receivables that were reacquired in the second quarter of 2003 are those of FCAR Owner Trust ("FCAR"), an entity integral to a Ford Motor Credit asset-backed commercial paper program. FCAR was consolidated for financial statement purposes with Ford Motor Credit in the second quarter of 2003. The financial measure that is most directly comparable to these loss-to-receivables ratios and that is calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP is the on-balance sheet credit loss ratio excluding losses on the reacquired FCAR receivables. Ford believes that the use of the non-GAAP on-balance sheet credit loss ratio is useful to investors because it provides a more complete representation of actual on-balance sheet credit loss experience.
Loss-to-Receivables Ratio.
Table of Contents
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
NEWS
IMMEDIATE RELEASE
FORD ANNOUNCES THIRD QUARTER FINANCIAL RESULTS
DEARBORN, Mich., Oct. 19  Ford Motor Company [NYSE: F] today reported net income of 15 cents per share, or $266 million, for the third quarter of 2004. This compares with a net loss of 1 cent per share, or $25 million, in the third quarter of 2003.
Ford's third-quarter earnings from continuing operations, excluding special items, were 28 cents per share, or $537 million.
Ford's total sales and revenue in the third quarter rose to $39 billion from $36.7 billion in the year-ago period.
    Go to http://media.ford.com for news releases and high-resolution photographs.
 
"I'm very proud of what our team has accomplished," said Bill Ford, chairman and chief executive officer. "We've made solid progress in the last two and a half years and we're building momentum. We're not going to let up on our efforts to raise our quality, lower our costs, or improve on the fundamentals of our business, and we'll continue the biggest product roll-out in our company's history."
New Ford Motor Company products now on the road around the world include the all-new Ford Mustang, Ford GT, Ford Five Hundred, Ford Freestyle, and the redesigned F-Series Super Duty; the all-new Mercury Montego and Mercury Mariner; the all-new Ford Escape Hybrid  the world's only hybrid SUV; the redesigned Ford Focus in Europe and Asia; the Land Rover LR3; the Volvo S40 and V50; and the long wheelbase Jaguar XJ. These new products are part of an unprecedented roll-out of new vehicles that will continue in 2005.
On a pre-tax basis, excluding special items of $64 million, worldwide automotive losses in the third quarter were $609 million, a deterioration of $61 million from the same period a year ago. The special items included a $23 million charge for restructuring at Jaguar, and $41 million in North America related to the revaluation of Ford's investment in Ballard Power Systems [NASDAQ: BLDP; TSX: BLD], a leading fuel cell manufacturer.
AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR
Worldwide automotive sales for the third quarter rose to $32.8 billion from $30.2 billion in the same period last year. Worldwide vehicle-unit sales in the quarter were 1,508,000, up from 1,423,000 a year ago.
Automotive cash, marketable securities, loaned securities and short-term Voluntary Employee Beneficiary Association (VEBA) assets on September 30, 2004 were $23.4 billion, down from $26.9 billion at the end of the second quarter, reflecting seasonal changes in operating cash flow, as well as additional funding of retiree health care liabilities.
    Go to http://media.ford.com for news releases and high-resolution photographs.
 
For the third quarter, the Americas reported a pre-tax loss of $422 million, excluding special items, down $288 million from the $134 million loss in the same period a year ago.
THE AMERICAS
In the third quarter, Ford's North America automotive operations reported a loss of $481 million, excluding special items, down $373 million from a year ago. The decrease primarily reflected unfavorable currency exchange rates and lower production volumes. Sales were $18.1 billion, up from $17.9 billion in the same period a year ago.
North America:
Ford's South America operations reported a third-quarter pre-tax profit of $59 million, an $85 million improvement from the 2003 third quarter. The improvement primarily reflected higher volume and pricing, partially offset by higher material costs. Sales improved to $784 million from $489 million in the same period a year ago.
South America:
The 2004 third-quarter combined pre-tax loss for Ford Europe and PAG was $204 million, excluding special items, compared with a loss of $424 million for the year-ago period, a year-over-year improvement of $220 million.
FORD EUROPE AND PREMIER AUTOMOTIVE GROUP (PAG)
Ford Europe's third quarter pre-tax loss was $33 million, compared with a pre-tax loss of $400 million, excluding special items, during the 2003 period. The improvement of $367 million primarily reflected higher sales volume and improved cost performance. Ford Europe's sales in the third quarter increased to $5.9 billion, compared with $4.6 billion during the third quarter of 2003.
Ford Europe:
PAG reported a pre-tax loss of $171 million for the third quarter, excluding special items, compared with a pre-tax loss of $24 million for the third quarter of 2003. The decline in results primarily reflected vehicle launch costs, particularly at Land Rover, and unfavorable currency exchange rates. Third-quarter sales for PAG were $6.1 billion, compared with $5.6 billion a year ago.
Premier Automotive Group:
    Go to http://media.ford.com for news releases and high-resolution photographs.
 
The 2004 third-quarter combined pre-tax profit for Ford Asia-Pacific/Africa and Mazda was $48 million, compared with $8 million for the year-ago period, a year-over-year improvement of $40 million.
FORD ASIA-PACIFIC/AFRICA AND MAZDA
For the third quarter of 2004, Ford Asia-Pacific/Africa reported a pre-tax profit of $35 million, an improvement of $32 million from the same period a year ago. The improvement primarily reflected favorable currency exchange rates. Sales rose to $1.9 billion, compared with $1.6 billion during the third quarter of 2003.
Ford Asia-Pacific/Africa:
During the third quarter of 2004, Ford's share of the pre-tax profit of Mazda and associated operations was $13 million, compared with $5 million a year ago.
Mazda:
FORD MOTOR CREDIT COMPANY
Ford Motor Credit Company reported net income of $734 million in the third quarter of 2004, up $230 million from $504 million a year earlier. On a pre-tax basis from continuing operations, Ford Motor Credit earned $1.2 billion in the third quarter, compared with $808 million in the previous year. The increase in earnings primarily reflected improved credit loss performance and leasing results
.
Hertz reported a pre-tax profit of $249 million in the third quarter compared with a $186 million profit during the same period a year ago. The improvement primarily reflected higher rental car volume in the leisure and commercial segments, and higher profit from the disposal of used vehicles and equipment. The improvements were partially offset by lower pricing in car rental markets, due to the highly competitive environment, as well as higher costs.
HERTZ
    Go to http://media.ford.com for news releases and high-resolution photographs.
 
"Overall, we had a good third quarter," said Don Leclair, group vice president and chief financial officer. "We are on track to deliver this year's milestone of $1 billion in automotive pre-tax profits, excluding special items. Our results show continued strong performance in Financial Services and continuing improvement in North American revenue, even though the market remains difficult. New products in the fourth quarter should improve our U.S. market share, and we're making good progress in Europe. In addition, South America, Asia-Pacific/Africa, and Mazda were all profitable."
OUTLOOK
As a result, Ford increased its 2004 full-year earnings guidance to a range of $2.00 to $2.05 per share from continuing operations, excluding special items. The increase from prior guidance of $1.90 to $2.00 per share primarily reflects the strong performance of the company's Financial Services sector. Special items, which are presently estimated to reduce full-year earnings by 13 cents per share, are expected to consist primarily of the restructuring and revaluation of the company's investment in Ballard, and restructuring actions at Jaguar and Ford Europe.
Investors and news media can hear Don Leclair review Ford's third-quarter financial results via conference call at 800-599-9795 (617-786-2905 for international dial-in) with a verbal passcode of "Ford Earnings Call" or on the Internet at www.shareholder.ford.com. Supporting presentation material will be available the same internet address. The presentation will begin at 9:00 a.m. ET, October 19.
Representatives of the investment community and news media participating by teleconference will have an opportunity to ask questions following Leclair's presentation.
Replays of the call will be available through October 26, by dialing 888-286-8010 with passcode 29481628. The international access number for the replay is 617-801-6888 with the same passcode as above. Replays also are available at www.shareholder.ford.com.
    Go to http://media.ford.com for news releases and high-resolution photographs.
 
Treasurer Malcolm Macdonald, Controller Jim Gouin, and Ford Motor Credit Company CFO and Vice Chairman Dave Cosper will host a conference call for fixed income analysts at 11 a.m. ET on Tuesday, October 19. The dial-in number for the call is 800-599-9795. (International dial-in is 617-786-2905.) The passcode for both numbers is a verbal response of "Ford Fixed Income."
Ford Motor Company, a global automotive industry leader based in Dearborn, Michigan, manufactures and distributes automobiles in 200 markets across six continents. With more than 326,000 employees worldwide, the company's core and affiliated automotive brands include Aston Martin, Ford, Jaguar, Land Rover, Lincoln, Mazda, Mercury and Volvo. Its automotive-related services include Ford Motor Credit Company and Hertz.
Statements included herein may constitute "forward looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated, including, without limitation:
SAFE HARBOR
    Go to http://media.ford.com for news releases and high-resolution photographs.

 
Exhibit 99.2

 
Exhibit 99.3

 
Exhibit 99.4

 
Exhibit 99.5

 
Exhibit 99.6

 
Exhibit 99.7

 
Exhibit 99.8
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.9
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


