FILE:F/F-8K-20050420083941.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     Ford Motor Company ("Ford") hereby incorporates by reference its news release dated April 20, 2005 and supplemental financial information concerning first quarter 2005 financial results, furnished as Exhibits 99.1, 99.2 and 99.3, respectively.
     Ford will conduct two conference calls on April 20, 2005 to review first quarter 2005 financial results. Don Leclair, Ford's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, hosts a conference call with the investment community and the news media beginning at 9:00 a.m. to review first quarter 2005 financial results. Investors may access this conference call by dialing 800-599-9795 (or 1-617-786-2905 if dialing from outside the United States). The passcode for either telephone number is a verbal response of "Ford Earnings Call".
     Ford's Vice President and Treasurer, Ann Marie Petach, Ford Motor Credit Company's ("Ford Credit's") Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer, David Cosper, and Ford's Vice President and Controller, Jim Gouin, will host a second conference call with fixed income analysts and investors beginning at 11:00 a.m. Investors may access this conference call by dialing 800-599-9795 (or 1-617-786-2905 if dialing from outside the United States). The passcode for either telephone number is a verbal response of "Ford Fixed Income".
     A listen-only webcast, and supporting presentation materials for each call, will be available on the Internet at . Investors may also access replays of the calls by visiting , or by dialing 888-286-8010 (1-617-801-6888 if dialing from outside the United States) through April 27, 2005. The passcode for replays of the 9:00 a.m. call is 29481628; the passcode for replays of the 11:00 a.m. call is 55865600. All times referenced above are in Eastern Time.
www.shareholder.ford.com
www.shareholder.ford.com
     Please note that the exhibits to this report contain certain "non-GAAP financial measures" as defined in Item 10 of Regulation S-K of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These non-GAAP financial measures include the following: operating-related cash flow for Ford's Automotive sector; financial results that exclude special items; and managed leverage ratios for our subsidiary, Ford Credit. Each of these non-GAAP financial measures is discussed below, along with the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States ("GAAP") and the reason we believe the presentation of each non-GAAP financial measure provides useful information to investors.
     The exhibits hereto discuss operating-related cash flow before contributions to trusts (which fund pension and health care obligations) and before tax refunds for the first quarter of 2005. The exhibits also include a milestone for operating-related cash flow for 2005. These exhibits indicate that our Automotive sector had operating-related cash flow before contributions and tax refunds for the first quarter of 2005 of $800 million. The most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP is Cash Flow from Operating Activities before Securities Trading for our Automotive sector. Slide 14 and the Appendix (pages 14 and 15) of Exhibit 99.2 combine to provide a reconciliation of non-GAAP operating-related cash flow to Cash Flow from Operating Activities before Securities Trading. Cash Flow from Operating Activities before Securities Trading for our Automotive sector was $2.4 billion for the first quarter of 2005.
Operating-Related Cash Flow
.
Table of Contents
     We believe that the non-GAAP measure of operating-related cash flow before contributions and tax refunds is useful to investors because it includes cash flow elements not included in the GAAP measure of Cash Flow from Operating Activities before Securities Trading for our Automotive sector which we consider to be related to operating activities (for example, capital spending). Consequently, operating-related cash flow provides investors with a more relevant measure of the cash generated by Ford's Automotive operations than the GAAP measure of Cash Flow from Operating Activities before Securities Trading.
     The exhibits hereto also discuss pre-tax profits excluding special items for Ford's Automotive sector and the primary operating segments and business units within the Automotive sector. The most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP is pre-tax profits including special items. Ford believes that pre-tax profits excluding special items is a useful measure to provide investors, because it excludes those items that Ford does not consider to be indicative of earnings from ongoing operating activities. As a result, pre-tax profits excluding special items provides investors with a more relevant measure of the results generated by our operations. Slide 3 and Appendix (page 3) of Exhibit 99.2 list the special items and their impact on first quarter 2005 results. Additionally, the table set forth below shows the pre-tax profits for each of the operating segments and business units within our Automotive sector, and for our Financial Services sector (both including and excluding special items), for the first quarter of 2005.
Financial Results Excluding Special Items
.
-
TOTAL COMPANY 2004  2005 FIRST QUARTER PRE
TAX RESULTS*
Table of Contents
     The exhibits hereto also discuss Ford Credit's leverage (i.e., debt-to-equity ratio) on both a financial statement and managed basis. Financial statement leverage is the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP to the non-GAAP managed leverage financial measure. The appendices to the exhibits hereto contain a reconciliation of Ford Credit's non-GAAP managed leverage measure to its financial statement leverage. The appendices indicate that Ford Credit's financial statement and managed leverage at March 31, 2005 were 11.4 and 13.0 to 1, respectively. We believe that the use of the non-GAAP managed leverage measure, which is the result of several adjustments to Ford Credit's financial statement leverage, is useful to investors because it reflects the way Ford Credit manages its business. Ford Credit retains interests in receivables sold in off-balance sheet securitization transactions, and, with respect to subordinated retained interests, has credit risk. Accordingly, Ford Credit considers securitization as an alternative source of funding and evaluates credit losses, receivables and leverage on a managed as well as on a financial statement basis. As a result, the managed leverage measure provides investors with meaningful information regarding management's decision-making processes.
Managed Leverage
.      
     In calculating its managed leverage ratio, Ford Credit adds the total amount of receivables sold in off-balance sheet securitizations (including securitized funding from discontinued operations), net of retained interests (including retained interest in securitized receivables from discontinued operations), to its debt. It also deducts cash and cash equivalents because these generally correspond to excess debt beyond the amount required to support Ford Credit's financing operations. It adds minority interests to equity because all of the debt of such consolidated entities is included in total debt. It excludes the impact of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133 in both the numerator and the denominator in order to exclude the interim effects of changes in market rates, because Ford Credit generally repays its debt funding obligations as they mature.
Table of Contents
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
IMMEDIATE RELEASE
FORD ANNOUNCES FIRST-QUARTER FINANCIAL RESULTS
DEARBORN, Mich., April 20  Ford Motor Company [NYSE: F] today reported net income of 60 cents per share, or $1.21 billion, for the first quarter of 2005. This compares with net income of 94 cents per share, or $1.95 billion, in the first quarter of 2004.
Ford's first-quarter earnings from continuing operations, excluding special items, were 62 cents per share, or $1.26 billion.*
Ford's total sales and revenue in the first quarter rose to $45.1 billion from $44.7 billion in the year-ago period.
* Earnings per share from continuing operations is calculated on a basis that includes pre-tax profit (excluding special items), provision for taxes and minority interest. See attachment for reconciliation to GAAP.
 
"The plan that we launched in 2002 has led to profits and positive cash flow," said Bill Ford, chairman and chief executive officer. "Going forward, we will continue to focus on improving our quality, lowering our costs, and delivering exciting new products, as well as taking actions that strengthen our finances, optimize our global footprint and lead to the faster development of new products."
The following discussion of the results of our automotive sector and business units is on a basis that excludes special items. See attachment for the nature and amount of these special items and a reconciliation to pre-tax results on a GAAP basis.
AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR
On a pre-tax basis, excluding special items of $106 million, worldwide automotive profits in the first quarter were $579 million, down by $1.25 billion from the same period a year ago.
Worldwide automotive sales for the first quarter rose to $39.3 billion from $38.8 billion in the same period last year. Worldwide vehicle-unit sales in the quarter were 1,716,000, down from 1,788,000 a year ago.
Operating-related cash flow was $800 million positive for the quarter. Automotive cash, marketable securities, loaned securities and short-term Voluntary Employee Beneficiary Association (VEBA) assets on March 31, 2005 were $22.9 billion, down from $23.6 billion at the end of the fourth-quarter.
THE AMERICAS
For the first quarter, the Americas reported a pre-tax profit of $740 million, excluding special items, down $1.24 billion from a $1.98 billion pre-tax profit in the same period a year ago.
In the first quarter, Ford's North American automotive operations reported pre-tax profit of $663 million, excluding special items, down $1.3 billion from a year ago. Lower volumes, higher costs, unfavorable currency exchange, and unfavorable net pricing contributed to the decline. Sales were $21.1 billion, down from $23.2 billion in the same period a year ago.
North America:
Ford's South American automotive operations reported a first-quarter pre-tax profit of $77 million, an increase of $62 million from first quarter 2004. The improvement reflected primarily higher volumes, favorable currency exchange, and higher pricing partially offset by higher commodity costs. Revenue for the first quarter increased to $866 million from $650 million in 2004.
South America:
Go to for news releases and high-resolution photographs.
http://media.ford.com
 
FORD EUROPE AND PREMIER AUTOMOTIVE GROUP (PAG)
The 2005 first-quarter combined pre-tax profit for Ford Europe and PAG automotive operations was $4 million, compared with a profit of $38 million for the year-ago period, excluding special items, a year-over-year deterioration of $34 million.
Ford Europe's first-quarter pre-tax profit was $59 million, compared with a pre-tax profit of $5 million, excluding special items, during the 2004 period. The improvement of $54 million primarily reflected higher volume and ongoing cost reductions. Ford Europe's sales in the first quarter increased to $7.7 billion, compared with $6.5 billion during the first quarter of 2004.
Ford Europe:
PAG reported a pre-tax loss of $55 million for the first quarter, compared with a pre-tax profit of $33 million for the first quarter of 2004. The decline in results primarily reflected unfavorable currency exchange, offset partially by lower costs. First-quarter sales for PAG were $7.6 billion, compared with $6.8 billion a year ago.
Premier Automotive Group:
FORD ASIA-PACIFIC and AFRICA/MAZDA
The 2005 first-quarter combined pre-tax profit for Ford Asia-Pacific and Africa/Mazda was $97 million, compared with $82 million for the year-ago period, a year-over-year improvement of $15 million.
For the first quarter of 2005, Ford Asia-Pacific and Africa reported a pre-tax profit of $43 million, an improvement of $15 million from the same period a year ago. The improvement primarily reflected higher volumes and a gain on the sale of Ford's interest in Mahindra and Mahindra in India. Sales rose to $2 billion, compared with $1.6 billion during the first quarter of 2004.
Ford Asia-Pacific and Africa:
During the first quarter of 2005, Ford's share of the pre-tax profit of Mazda and associated operations was $54 million, unchanged from the same period a year ago.
Mazda:
FORD MOTOR CREDIT COMPANY
Ford Motor Credit reported net income of $710 million in the first quarter of 2005, up $22 million from earnings of $688 million a year earlier. On a pre-tax basis, Ford Motor Credit earned $1.1 billion in the first quarter, unchanged from the previous year. The results primarily reflected improved credit loss performance, offset partially by the impact of a decline in volume and higher borrowing costs.
Go to for news releases and high-resolution photographs.
http://media.ford.com
 
Hertz reported a first-quarter pre-tax profit of $33 million, a $40 million improvement from the $7 million pre-tax loss from the same period in 2004. The improvement reflected higher car and equipment rental volumes and higher proceeds from the disposal of used vehicles, partially offset by a highly competitive pricing environment in car rental markets.
HERTZ
"As we previously announced, we have reduced our full-year earnings guidance for 2005 to a range of $1.25 to $1.50 per share, excluding special items. This outlook is based on our expectation of a tougher operating environment for the remainder of the year," said Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Don Leclair. "Consistent with this, we expect our second-quarter earnings per share, excluding special items, to range from a loss of 15 cents per share to breakeven."
OUTLOOK
Full-year and second-quarter 2005 earnings-per-share guidance excludes the effect of special items, which are presently estimated to include charges related to the following items:
* Ford expects to incur a charge to earnings associated with concluding a final agreement with Visteon, but at this time we are not able to provide any estimate.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Bill Ford, and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Don Leclair, will host a conference call beginning at 9:00 a.m. ET to discuss first-quarter financial results.
FIRST-QUARTER RESULTS CONFERENCE CALL  APRIL 20
Following the earnings call, at 11:00 a.m. ET, Ford Vice President and Treasurer Ann Marie Petach, Ford Credit Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer David Cosper, and Ford Vice President and Controller Jim Gouin, will host a conference call for fixed income analysts and investors.
The presentations (listen-only) and supporting materials also will be available on the Internet at . Representatives of the news media and the investment community participating by teleconference will have the opportunity to ask questions following the presentations.
www.shareholder.ford.com
Go to for news releases and high-resolution photographs.
http://media.ford.com
 
April 20
Conference Call Access Information
www.shareholder.ford.com
 
Replays
Available through April 27
www.shareholder.ford.com
Ford Motor Company, a global automotive industry leader based in Dearborn, Michigan, manufactures and distributes automobiles in 200 markets across six continents. With more than 324,000 employees worldwide, the Company's core and affiliated automotive brands include Aston Martin, Ford, Jaguar, Land Rover, Lincoln, Mazda, Mercury and Volvo. Its automotive-related services include Ford Motor Credit Company and The Hertz Corporation.
Go to for news releases and high-resolution photographs.
http://media.ford.com
 
SAFE HARBOR
Statements included herein may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated, including, without limitation:
* greater price competition resulting from currency fluctuations, industry overcapacity or other factors;
* a significant decline in industry sales, particularly in the U.S. or Europe, resulting from slowing economic growth, geo-political events or other factors;
* lower-than-anticipated market acceptance of new or existing products;
* economic distress of suppliers that may require us to provide financial support or take other measures to ensure supplies of materials;
* work stoppages at Ford or supplier facilities or other interruptions of supplies;
* the discovery of defects in vehicles resulting in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns or increased warranty costs;
* increased safety, emissions, fuel economy or other regulation resulting in higher costs and/or sales restrictions;
* unusual or significant litigation or governmental investigations arising out of alleged defects in our products or otherwise;
* worse-than-assumed economic and demographic experience for our post- retirement benefit plans (e.g., investment returns, interest rates, healthcare cost trends, benefit improvements);
* currency or commodity price fluctuations, including rising steel prices;
* changes in interest rates;
* a market shift from truck sales in the U.S.;
* economic difficulties in any significant market;
* higher prices for, or reduced availability of, fuel;
* labor or other constraints on our ability to restructure our business;
* a change in our requirements or obligations under long-term supply arrangements pursuant to which we are obligated to purchase minimum quantities or a fixed percentage or pay minimum amounts;
* credit rating downgrades;
* inability to access debt or securitization markets around the world at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts;
* higher-than-expected credit losses;
* lower-than-anticipated residual values for leased vehicles;
* increased price competition in the rental car industry and/or a general decline in business or leisure travel due to terrorist attacks, acts of war, epidemic diseases or measures taken by governments in response thereto that negatively affect the travel industry; and
* our inability to implement the Revitalization Plan.
Go to for news releases and high-resolution photographs.
http://media.ford.com
 
ATTACHMENT
TOTAL COMPANY 2005 FIRST QUARTER INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS COMPARED WITH NET INCOME
Go to for news releases and high-resolution photographs.
http://media.ford.com
 
Certain amounts in prior year's financial statements have been reclassified to conform with current year presentation.
 
Certain amounts in prior year's financial statements have been reclassified to conform with current year presentation.
 
Certain amounts in prior year's financial statements have been reclassified to conform with current year presentation.
 
 
Certain amounts in prior year's financial statements have been reclassified to conform with current year presentation.
 
 
Certain amounts in prior year's financial statements have been reclassified to conform with current year presentation.
 
 
Certain amounts in prior year's financial statements have been reclassified to conform with current year presentation.

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
SLIDE 1
 
SLIDE 2
 
SLIDE 3
 
SLIDE 4
 
SLIDE 5
 
SLIDE 6
 
SLIDE 7
 
SLIDE 8
 
SLIDE 9
 
SLIDE 10
 
SLIDE 11
 
SLIDE 12
 
SLIDE 13
 
SLIDE 14
 
SLIDE 15
 
SLIDE 16
 
SLIDE 17
 
SLIDE 18
 
SLIDE 19
 
SLIDE 20
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.3
 
Slide 1
 
Slide 2
 
Slide 3
 
Slide 4
 
Slide 5
 
Slide 6
 
Slide 7
 
Slide 8
 
Slide 9
 
Slide 10
 
Slide 11
 
Slide 12
 
Slide 13
 
Slide 14
 
Slide 15
 
Slide 16
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


