FILE:F/F-8K-20050719090107.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     Ford Motor Company ("Ford") hereby incorporates by reference its news release dated July 19, 2005 and supplemental financial information concerning financial results for the second quarter and first six months of 2005, furnished as Exhibits 99.1, 99.2 and 99.3 hereto.
     Ford will conduct two conference calls on July 19, 2005 to review financial results for the second quarter and first six months of 2005. Don Leclair, Ford's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, will host a conference call with the investment community and the news media beginning at 9:00 a.m. to review financial results for the second quarter and first six months of 2005. Investors may access this conference call by dialing 800-706-7741 (or 1-617-614-3471 if dialing from outside the United States). The passcode for either telephone number is a verbal response of "Ford Earnings Call."
     Ford's Vice President and Treasurer, Ann Marie Petach, Ford Motor Credit Company's ("Ford Credit") Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer, David Cosper, and Ford's Vice President and Controller, Jim Gouin, will host a second conference call with fixed income analysts and investors beginning at 11:00 a.m. Investors may access this conference call by dialing 800-706-7741 (or 1-617-614-3471 if dialing from outside the United States). The passcode for either telephone number is a verbal response of "Ford Fixed Income Call."
     A listen-only webcast and supporting presentation materials for each call will be available on the Internet at . Investors may also access replays of the calls by visiting , or by dialing 888-286-8010 (1-617-801-6888 if dialing from outside the United States) through July 26, 2005. The passcode for replays of the 9:00 a.m. call is 29481628; the passcode for replays of the 11:00 a.m. call is 55865600. All times referenced above are listed in Eastern Time.
www.shareholder.ford.com
www.shareholder.ford.com
     Please note that the exhibits to this report contain certain "non-GAAP financial measures" as defined in Item 10 of Regulation S-K of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These non-GAAP financial measures include the following: operating-related cash flow for Ford's Automotive sector; financial results that exclude special items; and managed leverage ratios for our subsidiary, Ford Credit. Each of these non-GAAP financial measures is discussed below, along with the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States ("GAAP") and the reason we believe the presentation of each non-GAAP financial measure provides useful information to investors.
     The exhibits hereto discuss operating-related cash flow before contributions to trusts (which fund pension and health care obligations) and tax refunds for the second quarter and first six months of 2005. The exhibits also include a milestone for operating-related cash flow for 2005. These exhibits indicate that our Automotive sector had operating-related cash flow before contributions and tax refunds of $(200) million and $600 million for the second quarter and first six months of 2005, respectively. The most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP is Cash Flow from Operating Activities before Securities Trading for our Automotive sector. Slide 15 and Appendix (pages 13 and 14) of Exhibit 99.2 combine to provide a reconciliation of non-GAAP operating-related cash flow to Cash Flow from Operating Activities before Securities
Operating-Related Cash Flow
.
Table of Contents
Trading. Cash Flow from Operating Activities before Securities Trading for our Automotive sector was $1.6 billion and $4.0 billion for the second quarter and first six months of 2005, respectively.
     We believe that the non-GAAP measure of operating-related cash flow before contributions and tax refunds is useful to investors because it includes cash flow elements not included in the GAAP measure of Cash Flow from Operating Activities before Securities Trading for our Automotive sector which we consider to be related to operating activities (for example, capital spending). Consequently, operating-related cash flow provides investors with a more relevant measure of the cash generated by Ford's Automotive operations than the GAAP measure of Cash Flow from Operating Activities before Securities Trading.
     The exhibits hereto also discuss pre-tax profits excluding special items for Ford's Automotive sector and the primary operating segments and business units within the Automotive sector. The most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP is pre-tax profits including special items. Ford believes that pre-tax profits excluding special items is a useful measure to provide investors because it excludes those items that Ford does not consider to be indicative of earnings from ongoing operating activities. As a result, pre-tax profits excluding special items provides investors with a more relevant measure of the results generated by our operations. Slide 3 and Appendix (pages 3 and 4) of Exhibit 99.2 list the special items and their impact on financial results for the second quarter and first six months of 2005. Additionally, the tables set forth below show the pre-tax profits (both including and excluding special items) for each of the operating segments and business units within our Automotive sector and for our Financial Services sector for the second quarter and first six months of 2005.
Financial Results Excluding Special Items
.
TOTAL COMPANY 2004  2005 SECOND QUARTER PRE-TAX RESULTS*
Table of Contents
TOTAL COMPANY 2004-2005 FIRST SIX MONTHS PRE-TAX RESULTS*
      The exhibits hereto also discuss Ford Credit's leverage (i.e., debt-to-equity ratio) on both a financial statement and managed basis. Financial statement leverage is the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP to the non-GAAP managed leverage financial measure. The appendices to the exhibits hereto contain a reconciliation of Ford Credit's non-GAAP managed leverage measure to its financial statement leverage. The appendices indicate that Ford Credit's financial statement and managed leverage at June 30, 2005 were 11.6 and 12.8 to 1, respectively. We believe that the use of the non-GAAP managed leverage measure, which is the result of several adjustments to Ford Credit's financial statement leverage, is useful to investors because it reflects the way Ford Credit manages its business. Ford Credit retains interests in receivables sold in off-balance sheet securitization transactions, and, with respect to subordinated retained interests, has credit risk. Accordingly, Ford Credit considers securitization as an alternative source of funding and evaluates credit losses, receivables and leverage on a managed as well as on a financial statement basis. As a result, the managed leverage measure provides investors with meaningful information regarding management's decision-making processes.
Managed Leverage.
     In calculating its managed leverage ratio, Ford Credit adds the total amount of receivables sold in off-balance sheet securitizations (including securitized funding from discontinued operations), net of retained interests (including retained interest in securitized receivables from discontinued operations), to its debt. It also deducts cash and cash equivalents because these generally correspond to excess debt beyond the amount required to support Ford Credit's financing operations. It adds minority interests to equity because all of the debt of such consolidated entities is included in total debt. It excludes the impact of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133 in both the numerator and the denominator in order to exclude the interim effects of changes in market rates, because Ford Credit generally repays its debt funding obligations as they mature.
Table of Contents
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
News
IMMEDIATE RELEASE
     
FORD ANNOUNCES SECOND-QUARTER 2005 FINANCIAL RESULTS
DEARBORN, Mich., July 19, 2005  Ford Motor Company [NYSE: F] today reported net income of 47 cents per share, or $946 million, for the second quarter of 2005. This compares with net income of 57 cents per share, or $1.2 billion, in the second quarter of 2004.
Ford's second-quarter earnings from continuing operations, excluding special items, were 47 cents per share, or $936 million, compared to 61 cents per share, or $1.2 billion, in the same period last year.*
Ford's total sales and revenue in the second quarter was $44.5 billion, compared to $42.9 billion in the year-ago period.
* Earnings per share from continuing operations is calculated on a basis that includes pre-tax profit and provision for taxes, excluding special items, and minority interest. See table following "Safe Harbor/Risk Factors" for the nature and amount of these special items and reconciliation to GAAP.
 
"Despite profitability in most regions, our global automotive results were disappointing, reflecting the fiercely competitive environment in which we continue to operate, particularly in North America," said Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Bill Ford. "We are responding to this tougher operating environment through actions aimed at improving our cost structure, optimizing our global footprint, strengthening our balance sheet and making essential investments for the future. We'll continue to share our plans as the year progresses."
Actions in the second quarter included:
On the product front, Ford continues to deliver more new products with the recent launch of the 2006 Mercury Mariner Hybrid, Range Rover Sport, and new diesel-powered cars from Jaguar and Volvo in Europe. On schedule for fall introductions in North America are the all-new Ford Fusion, Mercury Milan and Lincoln Zephyr mid-size sedans, the redesigned Ford Explorer and Mercury Mountaineer and the Mazda MX-5. In Europe, the high-performance Ford Focus ST will go on sale later this year.
The following discussion of the results of our Automotive sector and Automotive business units is on a basis that excludes special items. See table following "Safe Harbor/Risk Factors" for the nature and amount of these special items and reconciliation to GAAP.
On a pre-tax basis, worldwide automotive losses in the second quarter were $245 million, down $342 million from a $97 million profit during the same period a year ago.
AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR
Worldwide automotive sales for the second quarter rose to $38.7 billion from $36.7 billion in the same period last year. Worldwide vehicle-unit sales in the quarter were 1,718,000, down from 1,751,000 a year ago.
Total cash, including automotive cash, marketable securities, loaned securities and short-term Voluntary Employee Beneficiary Association (VEBA) assets on June 30, 2005, was $21.8 billion, down from $22.9 billion at the end of the first quarter. The Company contributed $1.1 billion to its pension plans and long-term VEBA in the second quarter.
 
For the second quarter, the Americas reported a pre-tax loss of $819 million, down $1.3 billion from a $476 million pre-tax profit in the same period a year ago.
THE AMERICAS
In the second quarter, Ford's North American automotive operations reported a pre-tax loss of $907 million, down $1.4 billion from a $454 million pre-tax profit a year ago. Higher costs and lower volumes contributed to the decline. Sales were $19.9 billion, down $568 million from the same period a year ago.
North America:
Ford's South American automotive operations reported a second-quarter pre-tax profit of $88 million, an increase of $66 million from a $22 million pre-tax profit a year ago. The improvement primarily reflected higher volumes and pricing, partially offset by higher commodity costs. Sales for the second quarter improved to $1 billion from $665 million in 2004.
South America:
The 2005 second-quarter combined pre-tax profit for Ford Europe and PAG automotive operations was $83 million, compared with a loss of $136 million for the year-ago period, an improvement of $219 million.
FORD EUROPE AND PREMIER AUTOMOTIVE GROUP (PAG)
Ford Europe's second-quarter pre-tax profit was $66 million, compared with a pre-tax profit of $211 million during the 2004 period. The deterioration of $145 million primarily reflected lower net pricing, lower production volumes, higher material and pension costs and lower profits from operations in Turkey. These were partially offset by internal cost reductions and mix improvements. Ford Europe's sales in the second quarter were $7.9 billion, compared with $6.7 billion during the second quarter of 2004.
Ford Europe:
PAG reported a pre-tax profit of $17 million for the second quarter, compared with a pre-tax loss of $347 million for the same period in 2004. The improvement primarily reflected richer product mix and higher net revenue, primarily at Land Rover, partially offset by unfavorable exchange. Second-quarter sales for PAG were $7.9 billion, compared with $6.9 billion a year ago.
Premier Automotive Group:
The 2005 second-quarter combined pre-tax profit for Ford Asia-Pacific and Africa/Mazda was $93 million, compared with $55 million for the year-ago period, an improvement of $38 million.
FORD ASIA-PACIFIC and AFRICA/MAZDA
For the second quarter of 2005, Ford Asia-Pacific and Africa reported a pre-tax profit of $36 million, an improvement of $41 million from a $5 million pre-tax loss a year ago. The results primarily reflected favorable exchange, higher volumes and improved mix, partially offset by
Ford Asia-Pacific and Africa:
 
higher developments costs for future products. Sales were $2 billion, an improvement of $100 million from $1.9 billion during the second quarter of 2004.
During the second quarter of 2005, Ford's share of Mazda profits and associated operations was $57 million, down from $60 million during the same period a year ago.
Mazda:
Second-quarter earnings included a profit of $398 million in other automotive financial results. This is an improvement of $696 million from the same period last year, primarily reflecting interest income related to tax refunds.
OTHER AUTOMOTIVE
On a pre-tax basis, Ford Motor Credit earned $1.2 billion in the second quarter, down $229 million from the previous year. The decline primarily reflected higher borrowing costs and the impact of lower receivable levels, partially offset by improved credit loss performance. Ford Motor Credit reported net income of $740 million in the second quarter of 2005, down from $897 million in the same period a year ago.
FORD MOTOR CREDIT COMPANY
Hertz reported a second-quarter pre-tax profit of $153 million, a $9 million improvement from the $144 million pre-tax profit from the same period in 2004. The improvement reflected higher car and equipment rental volumes and higher proceeds from the disposal of used vehicles and equipment, partially offset by a highly competitive pricing environment in car rental markets. Net income in the second quarter for Hertz was $97 million, up from $94 million in the same period last year.
HERTZ CORP.
In total, special items had no impact on earnings per share in the second quarter. Charges for Visteon-related actions and personnel reduction programs reduced earnings per share by 18 cents. These charges were fully offset by non-recurring adjustments that, in total, significantly reduced the Company's tax accrual during the quarter. These adjustments primarily reflect prior year federal and state tax settlements.
SPECIAL ITEMS*
* See table following "Safe Harbor/Risk Factors" for the nature and amount of these special items and reconciliation to GAAP.
Commenting on the Company's financial outlook, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Don Leclair, said "We recognize we have more to do in an environment that continues to be extremely challenging. We will continue to focus on improving our operating efficiencies and margins."
OUTLOOK
 
The Company's 2005 full-year earnings guidance is unchanged at $1.00 to $1.25 per share. Full-year earnings-per-share guidance excludes the effect of special items and discontinued operations, which are presently estimated to include the following items:
TOTAL COMPANY 2005 FULL-YEAR SPECIAL ITEMS AND DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
SECOND-QUARTER RESULTS CONFERENCE CALL  TUESDAY, JULY 19
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Don Leclair will host a conference call beginning at 9:00 a.m. EST to discuss second-quarter financial results.
Following the earnings call, at 11:00 a.m. EST, Ford Vice President and Treasurer Ann Marie Petach, Ford Credit Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer David Cosper, and Ford Vice President and Controller Jim Gouin will host a conference call for fixed income analysts and investors.
The presentations (listen-only) and supporting materials also will be available on the Internet at . Representatives of the news media and the investment community participating by teleconference will have the opportunity to ask questions following the presentations.
www.shareholder.ford.com
 
Ford Motor Company, a global automotive industry leader based in Dearborn, Michigan, manufactures and distributes automobiles in 200 markets across six continents. With more than 324,000 employees worldwide, the Company's core and affiliated automotive brands include Aston Martin, Ford, Jaguar, Land Rover, Lincoln, Mazda, Mercury and Volvo. Its automotive-related services include Ford Motor Credit Company and The Hertz Corporation.
 
Safe Harbor/Risk Factors
Statements included or incorporated by reference herein may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are based on expectations, forecasts and assumptions by our management and involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated, including, without limitation:
We cannot assure that any expectations, forecasts or assumptions made by management in preparing these forward-looking statements will prove accurate, or that any projections will be realized. It is to be expected that there may be differences between projected and actual results. Our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of their initial issuance, and we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
Attachment
TOTAL COMPANY 2005 SECOND QUARTER INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS
COMPARED WITH NET INCOME*
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


