FILE:F/F-8K-20050613171127.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
.
Item 8.01. Other Events
     Our news release dated June 13, 2005 concerning Hertz, filed as Exhibit 99 to this report, is incorporated by reference herein.
.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99
News
IMMEDIATE RELEASE
FORD ANNOUNCES HERTZ FILING FOR IPO
DEARBORN, Mich., June 13  Ford Motor Company today announced that The Hertz Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary, filed a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission for an initial public offering (IPO) of a portion of the economic interest in Hertz.
The filing is consistent with Ford's announcement on April 20 that it was evaluating long-term strategic objectives for Hertz. Following an IPO by Hertz, Ford intends to divest its remaining ownership interest in Hertz.
Hertz operates the largest general use car rental business in the world and one of the largest industrial, construction and material handling equipment rental businesses in North America, based on revenues.
J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and Goldman, Sachs & Co. are serving as joint book-running managers for the IPO. The IPO will be made by means of a prospectus, copies of which may be obtained, when available, from J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., Prospectus Department, One Chase Manhattan Plaza, New York, NY 10081 (212-552-5164), Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Prospectus Department, Brooklyn Army Terminal, 7th Floor, 140 58th Street, Brooklyn, NY 11220 (718-765-6732), or Goldman, Sachs & Co., Prospectus Department, 85 Broad Street, New York, NY 10004 (212-902-1171).
 
A registration statement relating to these securities has been filed with the SEC, but has not yet become effective. These securities may not be sold nor may offers to buy be accepted prior to the time the registration statement becomes effective. This news release shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any state in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state.
Ford Motor Company, a global automotive industry leader based in Dearborn, Michigan, manufactures and distributes automobiles in 200 markets across six continents. With more than 324,000 employees worldwide, the company's core and affiliated automotive brands include Aston Martin, Ford, Jaguar, Land Rover, Lincoln, Mazda, Mercury and Volvo. Its automotive-related services include Ford Motor Credit Company and The Hertz Corporation.


