FILE:F/F-8K-20060825100903.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ]
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ]
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 140.14a-12)
[ ]
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act
(17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ]
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act
(17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
.
On August 24, 2006, Robert E. Rubin resigned from the Board of Directors of Ford Motor Company.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
NEWS
IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Robert E. Rubin Resigns from Ford Board of Directors
DEARBORN
, Mich., August 25, 2006 - Ford Motor Company [NYSE: F] announced today that Robert E. Rubin, director, chairman of the Executive Committee and member of the Office of the Chairman of Citigroup Inc., has resigned from the Ford Board of Directors. Mr. Rubin joined the board in 2000.
In a letter to Bill Ford, Mr. Rubin said: "As the Board undertakes its upcoming review of strategic options, Citigroups multi-faceted relationship with Ford could raise a question whether my relationship with Ford and Citigroup creates an appearance of conflict. Although no conflict currently exists and while I would have liked to remain involved, I have with great regret concluded that I should resign from the Board at this time."
Commenting on the announcement, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Bill Ford said:
"I greatly appreciate the many valuable contributions Bob has made to Ford Motor Company during his six-year tenure. He brought strategic thinking to every situation and has been a wise and generous counselor to me and to the company. However, I understand and respect Bobs prudent decision to resign as we continue to explore future strategic options."
 
 
 
Go to
http://media.ford.com
for news releases and high-resolution photographs.
 
Ford Motor Company, a global automotive industry leader based in Dearborn, Mich., manufactures and distributes automobiles in 200 markets across six continents. With about 300,000 employees and more than 100 plants worldwide, the companys core and affiliated automotive brands include Aston Martin, Ford, Jaguar, Land Rover, Lincoln, Mazda, Mercury and Volvo. Its automotive-related services include Ford Motor Credit Company.
 
 
 
Go to
http://media.ford.com
for news releases and high-resolution photographs.

Exhibit 99.2
 
Mr. William Clay Ford, Jr.
Chairman of the Board and CEO
Ford Motor Company
One American Road
12
th
Floor
Dearborn, MI 48126
Dear Bill,
The Ford Motor Company is an important American institution, and I am proud to have been a member of its Board of Directors for the past six years. I have found my Board service to be very meaningful, and I am pleased to have been involved with you and our fellow directors in helping chart Fords course in a demanding environment.
I am also very pleased with the recent hiring of Ken Leet to assist with Fords strategic planning for the future. It is clear to me that the Board and management are acting responsibly in undertaking strategic and operational reviews to address the challenges Ford and the industry face.
As the Board undertakes its upcoming review of strategic options, Citigroups multi-faceted relationship with Ford could raise a question whether my relationship with Ford and Citigroup creates an appearance of conflict. Although no conflict currently exists and while I would have liked to remain involved, I have with great regret concluded that I should resign from the Board at this time. It is important that the shareholders and other Ford stakeholders have complete confidence in actions the Board and management may take to improve Fords strategic and operational position. In this day and age, when decisions of boards striving in good faith to do their best for companies are second-guessed, it does not seem prudent for Ford, Citigroup or me that I remain on the Board given my position at Citigroup and its relationship with Ford.
I wish you and Ford much success in the years ahead. I believe you, the Board and management will focus on the right issues in planning for Fords future and that you have put in place the right process to address them.
Sincerely,
/s/Robert E. Rubin
 
Robert E. Rubin
 
 


