FILE:F/F-8K-20060407133950.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ]
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ]
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 140.14a-12)
[ ]
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act
(17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ]
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act
(17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of
 
Principal Officers
.
Effective as of April 7, 2006, Marie-Jose Kravis, James J. Padilla and Carl E. Reichardt, all of whom are presently members of the Board of Directors of Ford Motor Company, chose not to stand for re-election to the Board of Directors. Mrs. Kravis, Mr. Padilla and Mr. Reichardt will continue as members of the Board of Directors until May 11, 2006, the date of Ford Motor Company's 2006 annual meeting of shareholders. Additionally, on April 6, 2006, Mr. Padilla, Ford's President and Chief Operating Officer, announced his intention to retire effective July 1, 2006.
Our news release dated April 6, 2006 concerning Mr. Padilla's retirement, filed as Exhibit 99 to this report, is incorporated by reference herein.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
 
N
EWS
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
FORD PRESIDENT, COO JIM PADILLA TO RETIRE
 
DEARBORN, Mich., April 6, 2006 - Ford Motor Company today announced that Jim Padilla will retire as the company's president and chief operating officer, effective July 1, and that his responsibilities will be assumed by Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Bill Ford through the chairing of a new Executive Operating Committee composed of the automaker's executive vice presidents.
 
Padilla's retirement plans cap a distinguished 40-year career and include his decision not to stand for re-election to the company's Board of Directors at the Annual Meeting in May. The following month, Padilla celebrates his 60
th
birthday.
 
"I'm grateful for the 40 years of service Jim Padilla has given to Ford Motor Company. They reflect the commitment and dedication that make Ford people so special in our industry," Bill Ford said. "The legacy of Jim's impassioned leadership will be his tireless pursuit of excellence, his inspired championing of workplace diversity and the mentoring he practiced that paved the way for so many of our senior executives leading Ford today."
 
 
Go to for news releases and high-resolution photographs.
http://media.ford.com
 
 
 
Ford executives who have risen through the company's leadership ranks under Padilla's tenure have included Mark Fields, executive vice president and president, The Americas; Mark Schulz, executive vice president and president, International Operations; Anne Stevens, executive vice president and chief operating officer, The Americas; and Lewis Booth, executive vice president, Ford of Europe and Premier Automotive Group.
 
"Bill Ford and I have worked hard to develop and assemble the best leadership for the company," Padilla said. "We have the right team for the job at hand and it is time for me to allow them to grow even further and transition into the new roles that await them. It is because of these individuals, and the people they lead, that I leave Ford with confidence in the company's future."
 
As part of Padilla's transition to retirement, Fields and Schulz, who reported to Padilla, will begin reporting directly to Bill Ford. Mr. Ford's other direct reports remain unchanged. Additionally, Bill Ford will chair a new Executive Operating Committee that will be composed of the company's executive vice presidents, including Fields, Schulz, Stevens, Booth and Chief Financial Officer Don Leclair.
 
Padilla joined Ford in 1966 as a quality control engineer. In 1976, he accepted the first of a series of management positions in product engineering and manufacturing. From 1992 to 1996, Padilla served in senior manufacturing, engineering and general management roles at Jaguar during its critical turnaround period.
 
From 1996 through 1998, he was president of Ford South America Operations, where he was responsible for restructuring the companys operations after the breakup of Autolatina, a joint venture with Volkswagen.
 
He was named group vice president, Global Manufacturing in 1999 and added the Quality organization in 2001. From 2001 to 2002, he was group vice president, North America, and was then elevated to executive vice president of the company, president of The Americas. In that role, he was responsible for all operations in the development, manufacturing, marketing and sales of Ford, Mercury and Lincoln vehicles in the United States, Canada, Mexico and South America.
 
 
 
Go to for news releases and high-resolution photographs.
http://media.ford.com
 
 
 
The Board of Directors appointed Padilla chief operating officer and chairman of Automotive Operations in April 2004. He joined the Board of Directors and became the company's president and chief operating officer in February 2005.
 
Padilla holds bachelors and masters degrees in chemical engineering and a masters degree in economics from the University of Detroit-Mercy. He was a White House Fellow and served as special assistant to the U.S. Secretary of Commerce in 1978 and 1979. In 2001, he was named a Fellow by the National Academy of Engineering. Padilla is a member of the U.S. Department of Commerce's Manufacturing Council. He also is the chair of the Corporate Board of Advisors of the National Council of La Raza.
 
About Ford Motor Company
Ford Motor Company, a global automotive industry leader based in Dearborn, Mich., manufactures and distributes automobiles in 200 markets across six continents. With about 300,000 employees and 108 plants worldwide, the companys core and affiliated automotive brands include Aston Martin, Ford, Jaguar, Land Rover, Lincoln, Mazda, Mercury and Volvo. Its automotive-related services include Ford Motor Credit Company. For information regarding Fords products, visit
www.fordvehicles.com
.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Go to for news releases and high-resolution photographs.
http://media.ford.com


