FILE:F/F-8K-20061127160321.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
Ford Motor Company ("Ford") hereby incorporates by reference its news release dated
November 27, 2006, which is herewith filed as Exhibit 99.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

 
N
EWS
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
FORD ANNOUNCES PLANS FOR DEBT FINANCING
DEARBORN, Mich., Nov. 27 - Ford Motor Company [NYSE: F] today announced that it plans to obtain financing totaling approximately $18 billion in order to address near- and medium-term negative operating-related cash flow, to fund its restructuring, and to provide added liquidity to protect against a recession or other unanticipated events.
The financing transactions consist of:
 
The size of the individual components of the financing may vary depending on market conditions.
B
orrowings under the senior secured revolving and term loan credit facilities will be secured on an equal basis by first-priority liens on principal domestic manufacturing facilities (subject to public debt indenture limitations) and substantially all of the Companys other domestic automotive assets, certain intellectual property, certain real property, all or a portion of the stock of certain subsidiaries (including Ford Motor Credit Company and Volvo), certain intercompany payables and notes, and up to $4 billion of domestic cash without restriction on its use.
The arrangers for the senior secured credit facilities are Citigroup Corporate and Investment Banking,
Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P.
, and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc.
Ford expects these transactions to close prior to December 31, 2006.
Upon completion of the transactions, Ford expects to have Automotive liquidity of approximately $38 billion at year end 2006, consisting of gross cash (i.e., cash, cash equivalents, loaned and marketable securities and short-term Voluntary Employee Beneficiary Association assets) and available credit facilities.
Ford Motor Company, a global automotive industry leader based in Dearborn, Mich., manufactures or
distributes automobiles in 200 markets across six continents. With about 300,000 employees and more than 100 plants worldwide, the company's core and affiliated automotive brands include Aston Martin, Ford, Jaguar, Land Rover, Lincoln, Mazda, Mercury and Volvo. Its automotive-related services include Ford Motor Credit Company.
Forward-Looking Statements
: Forward-looking statements herein regarding our financial plans are based on expectations and assumptions by our management and involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated, including, without limitation, market conditions and the other factors described under the heading "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Result of Operations - Risk Factors" in our most recent Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


