FILE:F/F-8K-20061206114603.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ]
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ]
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 140.14a-12)
[ ]
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act
(17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ]
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act
(17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events
.
 
On November 29, 2006, Ford Motor Company filed a nonbinding term sheet setting forth the significant terms and conditions of the senior secured credit facilities that it expects to enter into as Exhibit 99.2 to its Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 29, 2006. Filed as Exhibit 99 hereto and incorporated by reference herein is a letter to prospective lenders under the senior secured credit facilities describing an increase in the estimated size of the facilities and other expected changes to their terms. The terms and conditions of the senior secured credit facilities may continue to change.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
 
 
 
Re:
 
Ford Motor Company
 
Senior Secured Credit Facility Lenders
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
Please note that due to overwhelming support by lenders on the Revolving Facility (the Revolver), Ford Motor Company (Ford or the Company) is upsizing the Revolving Facility to an amount to be determined, but estimated to be between $10.5 billion and $11.5 billion. The size of the $7 billion Term Loan B and the amount of the basket of $1.5 billion for Permitted Non-Loan Exposure will remain unchanged.
 
In addition, the $2 billion basket for pari passu first lien debt from either the Incremental Facilities and/or Permitted Additional Notes (as defined in the Term Sheet) will have additional conditions to availability. In addition to the conditions currently in the term sheet, Ford must now also meet one of the following two conditions to access any amount of the $2 billion basket:
 
i) Ford must pledge its investment in Mazda Motor Corporation as additional collateral for all of the senior secured debt including the Revolver, Term Loan B Facility, Permitted Non-Loan Exposure and any Incremental Facilities and/or Permitted Additional Notes. In this case, the Borrowing Base would be adjusted for the contribution of collateral using a multiplier of 75% times the market value of the pledged Mazda shares; OR
 
ii) Prior to, or simultaneously with, the incurrence of indebtedness under any Incremental Facilities and/or Permitted Additional Notes, Ford shall have decreased commitments (but not necessarily outstandings) under the Revolving Facility or repaid outstandings under the Term Loan B Facility (other than in connection with a mandatory prepayment) by an aggregate amount at least equal to the amount of such Incremental Facilities and/or Permitted Additional Notes
 
The other existing conditions precedent for accessing the $2 billion in Incremental Facilities and/or the Permitted Additional Notes are unchanged from the previously distributed Term Sheet.
 
The modifications outlined in this memo will be reflected in the draft form of Credit Agreement to be distributed to Lenders later this week.
 
On behalf of Ford Motor Company, we would like to thank you for your ongoing support of the Company.
 
 
Sincerely,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


