FILE:F/F-8K-20060908153346.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ]
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ]
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 140.14a-12)
[ ]
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act
(17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ]
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act
(17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
Effective September 1, 2006, the Board of Directors of the Company elected Alan Mulally, age 61, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, replacing William Clay Ford, Jr. in those positions. He also was elected a member of the Board of Directors. The Company will not have an executive designated as a Chief Operating Officer at this time. William Clay Ford, Jr., who remains Chairman of the Board, was appointed Executive Chairman of the Company effective September 1, 2006.
Since March 2001 Mr. Mulally has been Executive Vice President of The Boeing Company, and President and Chief Executive Officer of Boeing Commercial Airplanes. He also was a member of the Boeing Executive Council and served as Boeing's senior executive in the Pacific Northwest. Prior to that, Mr. Mulally served in a number of other executive positions within Boeing.
Mr. Mulally serves as co-chair of the Washington Competitiveness Council and sits on the advisory boards of NASA, the University of Washington, the University of Kansas, Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the US Air Force Scientific Advisory Board.
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
.
Effective as of September 1, 2006, the Company entered into an agreement with Alan Mulally relating to the hiring of Mr. Mulally as President and Chief Executive Officer. The Company agreed to pay Mr. Mulally a base salary of $2,000,000 per year.
 
As part of the hiring arrangement, the Company also agreed to pay Mr. Mulally, no later than September 15, 2006, $7,500,000 as a hiring bonus and $11,000,000 as an offset for forfeited performance and stock option awards at his former employer. He may elect to defer these amounts in whole or in part under the Company's Deferred Compensation Plan.
Effective September 1, 2006, the Company granted Mr. Mulally (i) 3,000,000 ten-year nonqualified options that vest 33% one year after the grant date, 33% two years after the grant date and 34% three years after the grant date and (ii) 1,000,000 five year non-qualified performance-based options that vest based on the regular way trading closing price of Ford common stock on the New York Stock Exchange reaching certain thresholds that are maintained for a period of at least 30 consecutive trading days as follows: 250,000 options vest after Ford common stock closes at least $15 per share for such a period, an additional 250,000 options vest after Ford common stock closes at least $20 per share for such a period, an additional 250,000 options vest after Ford common stock closes at least $25 per share for such a period and an additional 250,000 options vest after Ford common stock closes at least $30 per share for such a period. All of the options granted to Mr. Mulally have an option price equal to the grant date's current fair market value of $8.28/share (based on the average of the high and low trading price on the New York Stock Exchange on the grant date).
In addition, effective September 1, 2006, the Company granted Mr. Mulally 600,000 restricted stock units. The units vest as to 200,000 units one year after the grant date, 200,000 units two years after the grant date and 200,000 units three years after the grant date. Dividend equivalent payments will be made in cash until the restrictions lapse. When the restrictions lapse, the units will be valued based on the closing price of Ford common stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the date of lapse and paid out in cash as soon as practicable thereafter. Mr. Mulally may elect to defer a portion of these payments under the Deferred Compensation Plan. Further, the Company agreed that the 2007 performance-based restricted stock unit opportunity and stock options to be granted to Mr. Mulally in March 2007 will have a
 
 
 
 
 
minimum grant date value of $6,000,000 and $5,000,000, respectively. The Company also agreed that his target bonus opportunity for 2007 will be 175% of his base salary.
If the Company terminates Mr. Mulally's employment for reasons other than for cause during the first five years of his employment or if there is a change in control of the Company during the first five years of his employment and he terminates his employment for good reason, the Company will (i) pay Mr. Mulally severance equal to two times his annual base salary and targeted bonus and (ii) remove vesting requirements for the initial stock option grant of 3,000,000 options and the 600,000 restricted stock units. If Mr. Mulally leaves the Company pursuant to the above arrangements, he may not work for a competitor for five years after the date of his termination. Mr. Mulally will not be entitled to any severance payment if he is terminated or released at any time for cause.
Mr. Mulally has the option to live in temporary housing in Southeast Michigan for the first two years of employment at Company expense. He is eligible for relocation assistance pursuant to the Company's relocation program when he relocates his household.
Mr. Mulally is required to use Company aircraft for personal travel under the Company's executive security program. When traveling on personal business on Company aircraft, Mr. Mulally will be entitled to be accompanied by his wife, children and any guests, at Company expense.
All items and benefits described above are subject to the terms, conditions, and requirements of our benefit or pension plans and programs, the terms of which may be amended from time to time in the future.
 
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

 
NEWS
IMMEDIATE RELEASE
FORD NAMES BOEING'S ALAN MULALLY PRESIDENT &
CEO; BILL FORD IS EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN
 
 
DEARBORN
,
Mich., Sept. 5 -
Ford Motor Company announced today that it has elected Alan Mulally as president and chief executive officer. He has also been elected to the Board of Directors.
Bill Ford will continue his duties as executive chairman of the company.
"One of the three strategic priorities that I've focused on this year is company leadership. While I knew that we were fortunate to have outstanding leaders driving our operations around the world, I also determined that our turnaround effort required the additional skills of an executive who has led a major manufacturing enterprise through such challenges before," Bill Ford wrote in an email to Ford employees today.
"That's why I'm very pleased to announce that Alan Mulally, who turned around the Commercial Airplanes division of The Boeing Company, will become our president and CEO effective immediately. Alan has deep experience in customer satisfaction, manufacturing, supplier relations and labor relations, all of which have applications to the challenges of Ford. He also has the personality and team-building skills that will help guide our Company in the right direction."
Bill Ford, who said he would remain "extremely active" in the business, praised Mulally as "an outstanding leader and a man of great character." He noted that Mulally had applied many of the
 
 
Go to
http://media.ford.com
for news releases and high-resolution photographs.
 
 
lessons from Ford's success in developing the Taurus to Boeing's creation of the revolutionary Boeing 777 airliner. That experience, chronicled in the book, "Working Together," by James P. Lewis, tells how the leadership principles Mulally learned from Ford and developed at Boeing may be applied to other businesses.
"Clearly, the challenges Boeing faced in recent years have many parallels to our own," Bill Ford said.
Mulally, 61, has spent 37 years at The Boeing Company, most recently as executive vice president. In addition, he has also been president and chief executive officer of Boeing Commercial Airplanes since 2001. In that position he was responsible for all of the company's commercial airplane programs and related services, which in 2005 generated record orders for new business and sales of more than $22.6 billion. Mulally was named president of Commercial Airplanes in September 1998. The responsibility of chief executive officer for the business unit was added in March 2001.
"I think the opportunity to work with Bill Ford and Ford Motor Company is the only thing that could have attracted me to a job other than Boeing, where I have so many great friends and memories," Mulally said. "I'm looking forward to working closely with Bill in the ongoing turnaround of this great Company. I'm also eager to begin engagement with the leadership team. I believe strongly in teamwork and I fully expect that our efforts will be a productive collaboration."
Mulally noted that many of the challenges he encountered in commercial airplane manufacturing are analogous to the issues at Ford.
"Just as I thought it was appropriate to apply lessons learned from Ford to Boeing, I believe the reverse is true as well," Mulally said. "I also recognize that Ford has a strong foundation upon which we can build. The Company's long tradition of innovation, developing new markets, and creating iconic vehicles that represent customer values is a great advantage that we can leverage for our future."
Bill Ford said he expected Mulally would assist Mark Fields and the Way Forward team as they accelerate their business plan.
"After dealing with the troubles at Boeing in the post-9/11 world, Alan knows what it's like to have your back to the wall - and fight your way out with a well-conceived plan and great execution," Bill Ford said in his note to employees. "He also knows how to deal with long product cycles, changing fuel prices and difficult decisions in a turnaround."
 
Prior to his current position, Mulally served as president of Boeing Information, Space & Defense Systems and senior vice president of The Boeing Company. Appointed to that role in February 1997, he was responsible for Boeings defense, space and government business.
 
 
Go to
http://media.ford.com
for news releases and high-resolution photographs.
 
 
Beginning in 1994, he was senior vice president of Airplane Development for Boeing Commercial Airplanes Group, responsible for all airplane development activities, flight test operations, certification and government technical liaison.
 
Mulally serves as co-chair of the Washington Competitiveness Council, and sits on the advisory boards of NASA, the University of Washington, the University of Kansas, Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the U.S. Air Force Scientific Advisory Board. He is a member of the United States National Academy of Engineering and a fellow of Englands Royal Academy of Engineering.
 
Mulally holds bachelors and masters of science degrees in aeronautical and astronautical engineering from the University of Kansas, and earned a masters in management from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology as a 1982 Alfred P. Sloan fellow.
 
A member of the board since 1988, Bill Ford, 49, was elected chairman in September 1998, and took office on Jan. 1, 1999. He also serves as chairman of the board's Environmental and Public Policy Committee and as a member of the Finance Committee. He was named Chief Executive Officer on Oct. 30, 2001.
Bill Ford, who led the Company to three straight years of profitability through 2005, told employees in his email that he looked forward to an excellent working partnership with Mulally on global strategic issues.
"L
et me assure you: I'm not going anywhere," Bill Ford wrote to Ford workers. "As executive chairman, I intend to remain extremely active in the direction of this Company. I'll be here every day and I will not rest until a prosperous future for this Company is secured."
 
 
Sept. 5, 2006
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Go to
http://media.ford.com
for news releases and high-resolution photographs.


