FILE:F/F-8K-20060421084556.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ]
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ]
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 140.14a-12)
[ ]
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act
(17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ]
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act
(17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
Ford Motor Company ("Ford") hereby incorporates by reference its news release dated
April 21, 2006, which is herewith furnished as Exhibit 99.
Ford will conduct two conference calls on April 21, 2006 to review first quarter 2006 financial results. Ford Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Bill Ford, and Ford Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Don Leclair, will host a presentation for the investment community and news media beginning at 9:00 a.m. to review first quarter 2006 financial results. Investors may access this presentation by dialing 800-706-7741 (or 1-617-614-3471 from outside the United States). The passcode for either telephone number is a verbal response of "Ford Earnings Call."
 
Ford Vice President and Treasurer, Ann Marie Petach, Ford Motor Credit Company Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer, K.R. Kent, and Ford Vice President and Controller, Jim Gouin, will host a second presentation for fixed income analysts and investors beginning at 11:00 a.m. Investors may access this presentation using the same dial-in information as above, with the passcode a verbal response of "Ford Fixed Income."
At the same time, a listen-only webcast and supporting presentation materials for each call will be available on the Internet at
www.shareholder.ford.com
. Investors may also access replays for one week following these presentations by visiting
www.shareholder.ford.com
, or by dialing 888-286-8010 (or 1-617-801-6888 from outside the United States). The passcode for replays of the 9:00 a.m. presentation is 29481628; the passcode for replays of the 11:00 a.m. presentation is 55865600. All times referenced above are listed in Eastern Time.
Please note that Exhibit 99 to this Form 8-K discusses pre-tax profits excluding special items for Ford's Automotive sector and the primary operating segments and business units within the Automotive sector. The most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP is pre-tax profits including special items. Ford believes that pre-tax profits excluding special items is a useful measure to provide investors, because it excludes those items that Ford does not consider to be indicative of earnings from ongoing operating activities. As a result, pre-tax profits excluding special items provides investors with a more relevant measure of the results generated by our operations.
 
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

N
EWS
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
FORD REPORTS FIRST QUARTER 2006 FINANCIAL RESULTS
DEARBORN, Mich., April 21, 2006 - Ford Motor Company [NYSE: F] today reported a net loss of 64 cents per share, or $1.2 billion, for the first quarter of 2006. This compares with net income of 60 cents per share, or $1.2 billion, in the first quarter of 2005.
Fords first-quarter earnings from continuing operations, excluding special items, was 24 cents per share, or $458 million.*
Fords total sales and revenue in the first quarter was $41.1 billion, down $4.1 billion from a year ago.
* Earnings per share from continuing operations excluding special items is calculated on a basis that includes pre-tax profit and provision for taxes and minority interest. See table following Safe Harbor/Risk Factors for the nature and amount of these special items and a reconciliation to GAAP.
 
 
 
I am confident that we are confronting our challenges head-on and that we will succeed in our turnaround and getting back on track to ensure our long-term success, said Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Bill Ford. We are clearly in a period of transition. However, I am pleased with the changes underway to make Ford a leaner, more innovative company. I also am grateful to our employees for the cooperation and confidence in Ford that they have demonstrated by embracing these changes, which can be very difficult.
 
 
Special items reduced earnings by 88 cents per share in the first quarter. The pre-tax effect of these items include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
First-quarter highlights included:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following discussion of the results of our Automotive sector and Automotive business units is on a basis that excludes special items. See table following Safe Harbor/Risk Factors for the nature and amount of these special items and a reconciliation to GAAP.
AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR
 
On a pre-tax basis, excluding special items of $2.5 billion, worldwide Automotive sector losses in the first quarter were $184 million. This compares with a pre-tax profit of $580 million, excluding special items of $107 million, during the same period a year ago.
Worldwide automotive sales for the first quarter declined to $37.0 billion from $39.3 billion in the same period last year. Worldwide vehicle unit sales in the quarter were 1,722,000, up from 1,716,000 a year ago.
Total cash, including automotive cash, marketable securities, loaned securities and short-term Voluntary Employee Beneficiary Association (VEBA) assets at March 31, 2006 was $23.7 billion, down from $25.1 billion at the end of the fourth quarter.
THE AMERICAS
For the first quarter, The Americas reported a pre-tax automotive loss of $323 million, excluding special items, compared to a pre-tax profit of $741 million in the same period a year ago.
North America:
In the first quarter,
 
Fords North America automotive operations reported a pre-tax loss of $457 million, excluding special items, compared with a pre-tax profit of $664 million, excluding special items, a year ago. The deterioration primarily reflected lower volumes associated with lower market share and a smaller increase in dealer inventories; increased incentives associated with a higher mix of leasing and fleet sales; the non-recurrence of favorable warranty reserve adjustments; acceleration of depreciation charges associated with announced plant idlings; adverse currency exchange; and losses associated with ACH, the former Visteon activities now controlled by Ford. These declines were partially offset by lower net product costs and other improvements primarily associated with implementation of our personnel and capacity reduction actions. Sales were $19.8 billion, down from $21.1 billion for the same period a year ago.
South America:
Fords South America automotive operations reported a first-quarter pre-tax profit of $134 million, an increase of $57 million from a $77 million pre-tax profit a year ago. Pricing and higher industry volume, partially offset by higher commodity prices, were the primary drivers of the improvement. Sales for the first quarter improved to $1.2 billion from $866 million in 2005.
 
 
INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS
In the first quarter, International Operations reported a combined automotive pre-tax profit, excluding special items, of $301 million, an improvement of $200 million from first quarter 2005.
FORD EUROPE AND PREMIER AUTOMOTIVE GROUP (PAG)
The combined first-quarter automotive pre-tax profit, excluding special items, for Ford Europe and PAG automotive operations was $254 million, an improvement of $250 million from the same period a year ago.
Ford Europe:
Ford Europes first-quarter pre-tax profit was $91 million, excluding special items, compared with a pre-tax profit of $59 million during the 2005 period. The improvement was more than explained by cost reductions, primarily material costs, and favorable mix, partially offset by lower net pricing. During the first quarter, Ford Europe negotiated an investment security agreement with the German works council that provides job protection while achieving a more competitive manufacturing cost base. Ford Europes sales in the first quarter were $6.8 billion, compared with $7.7 billion during first quarter 2005.
Premier Automotive Group (PAG):
  PAG reported a pre-tax profit, excluding special items, of $163 million for the first quarter, compared with a pre-tax loss of $55 million for the same period in 2005.
 
The improvement primarily reflected cost improvements at Volvo, Jaguar, and Land Rover and increased sales of Range Rover Sport, contributing to improved mix. The improvements were partially offset by unfavorable currency exchange and lower net pricing.
First-quarter sales for PAG were $7.1 billion, compared with $7.6 billion a year ago.
 
ASIA PACIFIC AND AFRICA/MAZDA
In the first quarter, Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda reported a combined pre-tax profit of $47 million, compared with a pre-tax profit of $97 million in 2005.
Asia Pacific and Africa:
For the first quarter, Asia Pacific and Africa reported a pre-tax profit of $2 million, compared with a pre-tax profit of $43 million a year ago. The decline primarily reflected lower Falcon volumes in Australia, unfavorable currency exchange, and the non-recurrence of last years sale of our interest in Mahindra & Mahindra in India, partially offset by improved performance in our joint ventures, primarily in China
.
Sales were $1.7 billion, compared with $2.0 billion in 2005.
 
Mazda:
During the first quarter of 2006, Fords share of Mazda profits and associated operations was $45 million, compared with $54 million during the same period a year ago. The decline primarily reflected lower gains during the quarter on our investment in Mazdas convertible bonds. All of these bonds have now been converted to equity.
OTHER AUTOMOTIVE
First-quarter results included a loss of $162 million in Other Automotive, compared with a loss of $262 million a year ago.  The year-over-year improvement primarily reflected higher interest income from our cash portfolio, due to higher short-term interest rates and higher cash balances.
FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR
For the first-quarter, Financial Services sector earned a pre-tax profit of $744 million, compared with pre-tax profits of $1.1 billion a year ago.
Ford Motor Credit Company:
Ford Motor Credit Company reported net income of $479 million in the first quarter of 2006, down $231 million from earnings of $710 million a year earlier. On a pre-tax basis from continuing operations, Ford Motor Credit earned $751 million in the first quarter, compared with $1.1 billion in the previous year. The decrease in earnings primarily reflected higher borrowing costs, the impact of lower receivable levels and higher depreciation expense, partially offset by improved credit loss performance.
FULL-YEAR SPECIAL ITEMS
The company previously announced it anticipated full-year pre-tax special items of about $1 billion, with further study required to assess additional costs stemming from the Way Forward plan and to determine appropriate accounting for these costs. The present expectation is that total full-year pre-tax special items, including these jobs bank-related costs and associated pension curtailment charges, will be about $3.4 billion.
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Don Leclair said, Todays results reflect the business environment we are facing and the actions we are taking to address our issues. We remain committed to implementing our plans to turn around the automotive business.
 
 
FIRST QUARTER CONFERENCE CALL DETAILS
Ford Motor Company will release first quarter 2006 financial results at 7 a.m. EDT on Friday, April 21. The following briefings will be held after the announcement:
At 9 a.m. EDT, Chairman and CEO, Bill Ford, and Executive Vice President and CFO, Don Leclair, will host a conference call for news media and analysts to discuss first-quarter financial results.
Following the earnings call, at 11 a.m. EDT, Ford Vice President and Treasurer Ann Marie Petach, Ford Motor Credit Company Vice Chairman and CFO K.R. Kent, and Ford Vice President and Controller Jim Gouin, will host a conference call for fixed income analysts and investors.
The presentations (listen-only) and supporting materials will be available on the Internet at
www.shareholder.ford.com
. Representatives of the news media and the investment community participating by teleconference will have the opportunity to ask questions following the presentations.
Access Information
- Friday, April 21
Toll Free:
800-706-7741
 
 
International:
617-614-3471
Earnings: 9:00 a.m. EDT
Earnings Passcode: Ford Earnings Call
Fixed Income:
 
11:00 a.m. EDT
Fixed Income Passcode: Ford Fixed Income
 
 
 
Replays
- Available through Friday, April 28
www.shareholder.ford.com
Toll Free: 888-286-8010
International: 617-801-6888
Passcodes:
Earnings:
29481628
Fixed Income:
55865600
 
 
Ford Motor Company, a global automotive industry leader based in Dearborn, Mich., manufactures and distributes automobiles in 200 markets across six continents. With about 300,000 employees and 108 plants worldwide, the companys core and affiliated automotive brands include Aston Martin, Ford, Jaguar, Land Rover, Lincoln, Mazda, Mercury and Volvo. Its automotive-related services include Ford Motor Credit Company.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Statements included or incorporated by reference herein may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are based on expectations, forecasts and assumptions by our management and involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated, including, without limitation:
We cannot be certain that any expectation, forecast or assumption made by management in preparing these forward-looking statements will prove accurate, or that any projection will be realized. It is to be expected that there may be differences between projected and actual results. Our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of their initial issuance, and we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
TOTAL COMPANY 2006 FIRST QUARTER INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS
COMPARED WITH NET INCOME
*    Earnings per share from continuing operations is calculated on a basis that includes pre-tax profit, provision for taxes,
and minority interest;
      additional information regarding the method of calculating earnings per share is available in the materials supporting the April 21, 2006,
      conference calls at
www.shareholder.ford.com.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prior year amounts have been revised to reflect a reclassification between Financial Services sector
Cash and cash equivalents
and
Marketable securities
as of December 31, 2005.
 
Prior year amounts have been revised to reflect a reclassification between Financial Services sector
Cash and cash equivalents
and
Marketable securities
as of December 31, 2005.
 
 
 
 
Prior year amounts have been revised to reflect a reclassification between Financial Services sector
Cash and cash equivalents
and
Marketable securities
as of December 31, 2005.
 
 
Prior year amounts have been revised to reflect a reclassification between Financial Services sector
Cash and cash equivalents
and
Marketable securities
as of December 31, 2005.
 


