FILE:F/F-8K-20070716143019.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
.
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
On July 11, 2007, Gerald L. Shaheen, a group president of Caterpillar Inc., was elected to the Company's Board of Directors.  Mr. Shaheen was named to the Audit Committee and the Nominating and Governance Committee of the Board.  The Company's press release announcing the election is attached to this Report as Exhibit 99.
 
.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

EWS
N
 Tom Hoyt
Contact:
   
            313.322.1524
            thoyt@ford.com
 
IMMEDIATE RELEASE
GERALD L. SHAHEEN
 
JOINS FORD BOARD OF DIRECTORS
DEARBORN,
Mich., July 11, 2007  Ford Motor Company (NYSE: F) announced today the election of Gerald L. Shaheen to the companys Board of Directors, effective immediately.  Shaheen is a group president at Caterpillar Inc. (NYSE: CAT) in Peoria, Ill.
Gerry is a respected business leader with more than 40 years of service in a variety of management positions with Caterpillar, said Ford Executive Chairman Bill Ford.  He brings a manufacturing and dealer perspective to Ford's Board of Directors.  We look forward to the significant contributions he will make in helping Ford to deliver its plan for automotive leadership and for creating profitable growth for all going forward.
Im both thrilled and honored to be in a leadership position as a Board member with the Ford Motor Company, one of the truly great American companies. said Shaheen.  I look forward to working with Fords Board of Directors and the leadership team to make this great company even stronger.       
Shaheen also is a Board member of the Association of Equipment Manufacturers (AEM), a Board member and immediate past Chairman of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce; and a Board member of the National Chamber Foundation and the Mineral Information Institute, Inc.
He also serves on the Board of Directors for National City Corporation, where he chairs the Nominating and Board of Directors Governance Committee, and AGCO Corporation, where he chairs the Compensation Committee. 
In Peoria, Shaheen serves on the Board of Trustees of the National Multiple Sclerosis Society, Greater Illinois Chapter and Peoria NEXT.
Shaheen received his bachelors degree in business administration from Bradley University in 1966 and an MBA from Bradley in 1968.  He has served the University in several capacities, including president of the Alumni Association and currently as Chairman of the Board of Trustees.  He also completed the Tuck Executive Program at Dartmouth College in 1988.
Ford Motor Company, a global automotive industry leader based in Dearborn, Mich., manufactures or distributes automobiles in 200 markets across six continents.  With about 260,000 employees and about 100 plants worldwide, the companys core and affiliated automotive brands include Ford, Jaguar, Land Rover, Lincoln, Mercury, Volvo and Mazda.  The company provides financial services through Ford Motor Credit Company.  For more information regarding Fords products, please visit www.fordvehicles.com.
Go to for news releases and high-resolution photographs.
http://media.ford.com
 
 
 


