FILE:F/F-8K-20070426084621.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Ford Motor Company ("Ford") hereby incorporates by reference its news release dated April 26, 2007, which is herewith furnished as Exhibit 99.
Ford will conduct two conference calls on April 26, 2007 to review preliminary first quarter 2007 financial results.  Beginning at 9:00 a.m., Ford's President and Chief Executive Officer Alan Mulally and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Don Leclair will host a presentation for the investment community and news media to review Ford's preliminary first quarter 2007 financial results.  Investors may access this presentation by dialing 800-706-7741 (or 1-617-614-3471 from outside the United States).  The passcode for either telephone number is a verbal response of "Ford Earnings."
At 11:00 a.m., Ford Vice President and Treasurer Neil Schloss, Ford Senior Vice President and Controller Peter Daniel, and Ford Motor Credit Company Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer K.R. Kent will host a presentation for fixed income analysts and investors.  Investors may access this presentation using the same dial-in information as above, with the passcode being a verbal response of "Ford Fixed Income."
A listen-only webcast and supporting presentation materials for these calls will be available on the Internet at .  Investors may also access replays for one week following the presentations by visiting , or by dialing 888-286-8010 (or 1-617-801-6888 from outside the United States).  The passcode for replays of the earnings call is 29481628; the passcode for replays of the fixed income call is 55865600.  All times referenced above are in Eastern Time.
www.shareholder.ford.com
www.shareholder.ford.com
Please note that Exhibit 99 to this Form 8-K discusses pre-tax profits excluding special items for Ford's Automotive sector and the primary operating segments and business units within the Automotive sector.  The most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles is pre-tax profits including special items.  We believe that pre-tax profits excluding special items is a useful measure to provide investors, because it excludes those items that we do not consider to be indicative of earnings from ongoing operating activities.  As a result, pre-tax profits excluding special items provides investors with a more relevant measure of the results generated by our operations.
 
.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
-3-
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
-4-
 
 
 

 
EWS
N
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
FORD REPORTS PRELIMINARY FIRST QUARTER 2007 FINANCIAL RESULTS*
DEARBORN, Mich., April 26, 2007  Ford Motor Company [NYSE: F] today reported a net loss of 15 cents per share, or $282 million, for the first quarter of 2007.  This compares with a net loss of 76 cents per share, or $1.4 billion, in the first quarter of 2006.
Fords first-quarter loss from continuing operations, excluding special items, was 9 cents per share, or $171 million, compared with a profit of 12 cents per share, or $223 million, in the same period a year ago.**
 
* The financial results discussed herein are presented on a preliminary basis; final data will be included in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2007.
** Earnings per share from continuing operations, excluding special items, is calculated on a basis that includes pre-tax profit and provision for taxes and minority interest.  See table following Safe Harbor/Risk Factors for the nature and amount of these special items and a reconciliation to U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP").
*** See table following Safe Harbor/Risk Factors for a reconciliation of Automotive gross cash to GAAP.
 
Special items, which primarily reflected the impact of restructuring efforts, reduced pre-tax results by $113 million, or 6 cents per share, in the first quarter.
Fords first-quarter revenue was $43 billion, up from $40.8 billion a year ago.  The increase primarily reflected mix improvement and favorable currency exchange, partially offset by lower volume.
"We are making progress on executing the four priorities of our plan  restructuring the company, accelerating product development, funding our plan and working effectively as one team," said President and Chief Executive Officer Alan Mulally.  "I am pleased that the basics of our business are improving, but we still have a lot of work to do.
 
"Our first quarter results came in somewhat stronger than expected, but there are many uncertainties going forward.  We remain focused on improving our quality, productivity and business performance," Mulally added.
 
First-quarter highlights included:
 
 
2
AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR
On a pre-tax basis, worldwide Automotive sector losses in the first quarter were $225 million.  This compares with a pre-tax loss of $203 million during the same period a year ago.  The 2007 losses were more than explained by net interest expense, partially offset by automotive operating profits of $116 million during the quarter.
Worldwide Automotive revenue for the first quarter was $38.6 billion, up from $37 billion in the same period last year.  The increase primarily reflected mix improvement and favorable currency exchange, partially offset by lower volume.  Vehicle wholesales in the first quarter were 1,650,000, down from 1,756,000 a year ago.
Automotive gross cash, which includes cash and cash equivalents, net marketable securities, loaned securities and short-term VEBA assets, was $35.2 billion at March 31, 2007, up from $33.9 billion at the end of the fourth quarter.
In the first quarter,Fords North America Automotive operations reported a pre-tax loss of $614 million, compared with a pre-tax loss of $442 million a year ago.  The increase in losses primarily reflected unfavorable volume and mix, partially offset by cost reductions.  Revenue was $18.2 billion, down from $19.8 billion for the same period a year ago.
Ford North America:  
 
Fords South America Automotive operations reported a first-quarter pre-tax profit of $113 million, compared with a pre-tax profit of $137 million a year ago.  The decline primarily reflected the non-recurrence of hedging gains.  First quarter revenue improved to $1.3 billion from $1.2 billion in 2006.
Ford South America:  
  Ford Europes first-quarter pre-tax profit was $219 million compared with a pre-tax profit of $65 million during the same period in 2006.  The improvement was more than explained by favorable volume and mix, partially offset by higher incentive spending.  During the first quarter of 2007, Ford Europes revenue was $8.6 billion, compared with $6.8 billion during the first quarter of 2006.
Ford Europe:
3
  PAG reported a record pre-tax profit of $402 million for the first quarter, compared with a pre-tax profit of $152 million for the same period in 2006.  The improvement is more than explained by favorable volume and mix, favorable net pricing and lower costs, partially offset by adverse currency exchange.  First-quarter 2007 revenue was $8.4 billion, compared with $7.1 billion a year ago. 
Premier Automotive Group
(PAG)
:
For the first quarter, Ford Asia Pacific and Africa reported a pre-tax loss of $26 million, compared with a pre-tax profit of $2 million a year ago.  Adverse currency exchange and unfavorable volume and mix were partially offset by favorable cost performance.  Revenue was $1.8 billion for the first quarter of 2007, compared with $1.7 billion in 2006.
Ford Asia Pacific and Africa:  
For the first quarter, Ford earned $22 million from its investment in Mazda and associated operations, compared with $45 million during the same period a year ago.  The decline is largely explained by the non-recurrence of gains on an investment in Mazda convertible bonds.
Mazda:
First-quarter results included a pre-tax loss of $341 million, compared with a loss of $162 million a year ago.  The year-over-year decline is largely explained by higher interest expense and related costs associated with the debt increase in the fourth quarter of 2006.  This was partially offset by increased interest income on a larger cash portfolio.
Other Automotive:
FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR
For the first quarter, Financial Services sector earned a pre-tax profit of $294 million, compared with a pre-tax profit of $375 million a year ago.
Ford Motor Credit reported net income of $193 million in the first quarter of 2007, down $55 million from earnings of $248 million a year earlier.  On a pre-tax basis from continuing operations, Ford Motor Credit earned $294million in the first quarter, compared with $382 million in the previous year.  The decrease in earnings was more than explained by higher borrowing costs and higher depreciation expense for leased vehicles.  The non-recurrence of losses related to market valuation adjustments from non-designated derivatives was a partial offset.
Ford Motor Credit Company:  
 
4
FIRST-QUARTER CONFERENCE CALL DETAILS
Ford Motor Company will release preliminary first quarter 2007 financial results at 7 a.m. EDT on Thursday, April 26. The following briefings will be held after the announcement:
At 9 a.m. EDT, Alan Mulally, president and chief executive officer, and Don Leclair, executive vice president and chief financial officer, will host a conference call for news media and the investment community to discuss the preliminary first quarter results.
Following the earnings call, at 11 a.m. EDT, Ford Senior Vice President and Controller Peter Daniel, Ford Vice President and Treasurer Neil Schloss, and Ford Motor Credit Company Vice Chairman and CFO K.R. Kent will host a conference call for the investment community.
The presentations (listen-only) and supporting materials will be available on the Internet at .  Representatives of the news media and the investment community participating by teleconference will have the opportunity to ask questions following the presentations.
www.shareholder.ford.com
 
5
Ford Motor Company, a global automotive industry leader based in Dearborn, Mich., manufactures or distributes automobiles in 200 markets across six continents.  With about 260,000 employees and about 100 plants worldwide, the companys core and affiliated automotive brands include Ford, Jaguar, Land Rover, Lincoln, Mercury, Volvo, Aston Martin and Mazda.  The company provides financial services through Ford Motor Credit Company.
6
Statements included herein may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Forward-looking statements are based on expectations, forecasts and assumptions by our management and involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated, including, without limitation:
We cannot be certain that any expectation, forecast or assumption made by management in preparing forward-looking statements will prove accurate, or that any projection will be realized.  It is to be expected that there may be differences between projected and actual results.  Our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of their initial issuance, and we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.  For additional discussion of these risks, see "Item 1A. Risk Factors" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006.
 
7
TOTAL COMPANY 2007 FIRST QUARTER INCOME/(LOSS) FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS COMPARED WITH NET INCOME/(LOSS)
TOTAL COMPANY 2007 FIRST QUARTER SPECIAL ITEMS
 
8
AUTOMOTIVE GROSS CASH RECONCILIATION TO GAAP
 
* The purchase or sale of marketable securities for which the cash settlement did not occur by period-end.
 
 


