FILE:F/F-8K-20071115114958.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
.
Item 1.01. Entry into A Material Definitive Agreement
On November 3, 2007, Ford Motor Company (Ford) and the International Union, United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Workers of America (the UAW) entered into a Memorandum of Understanding  Post-Retirement Medical Care (the MOU) and a new national collective bargaining agreement governing the wages, hours and terms and conditions of employment for UAW-represented employees (the National Agreement).  On November 14, 2007, the UAW announced that the MOU and the National Agreement had been ratified by the UAW membership employed at Ford.  The MOU is subject to a number of conditions as described below.  A copy of the MOU is attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibit 10, and the following description of the MOU is qualified in its entirety by reference to the MOU.
The MOU is subject to the occurrence of several uncertain events in pending litigation, including class certification, settlement, and court approval as described below.  On November 9, 2007, the UAW and certain Ford retirees filed suit against Ford in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan challenging Fords announced intention to unilaterally alter retiree health benefits and asserting that they have vested rights to such benefits.  , Civil Action No. 2:07-cv-14845 (E.D. Mich.) (Borman, J.) ().  The parties to the MOU intend to negotiate and, if possible, to enter into a detailed settlement agreement and other related agreements (the Final Settlement Agreement Documentation) to effect the transactions contemplated by the MOU.  The Final Settlement Agreement Documentation will require negotiation with, and the approval of counsel retained by, the individual named plaintiffs in and in earlier related litigation, , Civil Action No. 05-74730  (E.D. Mich.) (Borman, J.) (approving 2006 settlement), affd, 497 F.3d 615 (6 Cir. 2007) ("").  In the event a settlement is reached in , it would then be submitted to the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan for approval as an amendment to the class settlement approved by the Court in (the 2006 Settlement Agreement).  Certain provisions of the MOU will be carried out after the later of (i) the date the District Court issues an order approving the MOU and the Final Settlement Agreement Documentation and (ii) the date on which Ford has successfully completed its discussions with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") regarding accounting treatment with respect to the New VEBA, as defined below (the Effective Date).  All remaining provisions of the MOU and the Final Settlement Agreement Documentation will be carried out on the later of the date when all appeals from the District Courts order have been exhausted (the Appeal Completion Date) and January 1, 2010 (the Implementation Date).
UAW v. Ford
Hardwick II
Hardwick II
UAW v. Ford
th
Hardwick I
Hardwick II
Hardwick I
New Retiree Health Care Plan
The MOU provides that as of the Implementation Date, Ford's obligations for providing UAW retirees in the Covered Group with post-retirement medical benefits, including but not limited to hospital, surgical, medical, prescription drug, vision, dental, and hearing aid, as well as the cost of administering such benefits and $76.20 of the Medicare Part B premium (the Retiree Medical Benefits), shall be terminated and a new retiree health care plan (the New Plan) shall be established and maintained by either an independent committee or a joint labor-management committee and shall be funded by a newly established Voluntary Employee Beneficiary Association trust (the New VEBA), which shall be responsible for payment of all such Retiree Medical Benefits.  The Covered Group is comprised of: (a) all members of the class defined in the 2006 Settlement Agreement; (b) all future retirees as such term is defined in the 2006 Settlement Agreement who are retired as of the date the 2007 UAW-Ford National Agreement becomes effective (the "CBA Effective Date"); (c) all currently active UAW-represented employees of Ford with seniority as of the CBA Effective Date who retire with eligibility for post-retirement medical coverage; (d) all UAW retirees from any other closed or divested Ford-UAW business units as of the date of the MOU to the extent Ford is responsible for their retiree medical coverage; (e) upon retirement after the date of the MOU, all active UAW-represented employees of any other closed or divested Ford-UAW business if Ford would have responsibility for their retiree medical coverage; and (f) spouses, surviving spouses, and dependents of such current or former Ford-UAW employees who are eligible for Ford-provided retiree medical coverage.
- 2 -
Prior to the Implementation Date, Ford will continue to provide Retiree Medical Benefits to UAW retirees and their eligible spouses, surviving spouses and dependents on the basis set forth in the 2006 Settlement Agreement.   Also prior to the Implementation Date, Ford will take certain actions on (i) January 1, 2008 (as described below in subsections A, C and D), (ii) April 1, 2008 (as described in subsection E) and (iii) shortly after the Effective Date (as described in Section B) to execute the terms of the MOU.  The New Plan and the New VEBA, when approved and implemented, will supersede the terms set forth in the 2006 Settlement Agreement, and assume responsibility as of the Implementation Date for all Retiree Medical Benefits for the Covered Group for which Ford was previously responsible.
New VEBA Trust
The New VEBA will be established effective on the Implementation Date.  The New VEBA will be qualified under Section 501(c)(9) of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, and comply as applicable with the Labor-Management Relations Act of 1947 (the LMRA).  Funding for the New VEBA will begin within 10 days after the Implementation Date, and will come from a number of sources:
- 3 -
- 4 -
In the MOU, the UAW and Ford acknowledged that Fords obligations are fixed and capped and that Ford is not responsible for, and does not provide a guarantee of the asset returns of the funds in the TAA or the New VEBA.  In the event the assets of the New VEBA are not sufficient to fully fund the obligations of the New Plan, the committee responsible for the management and operation of the New VEBA and New Plan may reduce benefits to plan participants.
Health Care Reform
The MOU provides that Ford will publicly support federal policies to improve the quality and affordability of health care, and will work cooperatively with the UAW toward that goal.  Ford and the UAW have agreed to form a National Institute for Health Care Reform to be effective on or after the Effective Date, which would conduct research and analyze the current medical delivery system in the United States, develop targeted and broad-based reform proposals to improve the quality, affordability, and accountability of the system and educate the public, policymakers and others about how these reforms could address the deficiencies of the current system.  Subject to the participation of other U.S. vehicle manufacturers and their financial support on a pro rata basis, Ford agreed to make five annual $1.0 million contributions for this purpose.
Future Contributions
The MOU provides that the UAW and the Covered Group may not negotiate to increase any of Fords funding obligations under the MOU.   In addition, the UAW agreed that it will not seek to obligate Ford to (1) provide additional contributions to the New VEBA, (2) make any other payments related to providing retiree medical benefits to the Covered Group, and (3) provide retiree medical benefits through any other means to the Covered Group.   Employees may in the future contribute earnings that they received from wages, profit sharing, COLA or signing bonuses, to the extent that the UAW may propose.
Accounting Treatment
The MOU, the Final Settlement Agreement Documentation, and the Effective Date are contingent on Ford securing satisfactory accounting treatment for its obligations to the Covered Group for retiree medical benefits.  Ford intends to discuss the accounting for such obligations and for the New VEBA with the Staff of the SEC, and if Ford believes based on such discussions that accounting for the transactions contemplated by the MOU may be other than (1) a settlement as contemplated by SFAS No. 106  Employers Accounting for Postretirement Benefits other than Pensions, as amended, or (2) a substantive negative plan amendment that would be reasonably satisfactory to Ford, then the UAW and Ford will attempt to restructure the arrangement to achieve such accounting.   If the parties cannot restructure the arrangement on terms that Ford reasonably believes will provide such accounting, the MOU will terminate.
- 5 -
Conditions Precedent
The MOU is subject, in its entirety, to obtaining a class certification order in a form acceptable in form and substance to Ford, the UAW and class counsel; obtaining District Court approval in a form acceptable in form and substance to Ford, the UAW and class counsel; amendment of the 2006 Settlement Agreement pursuant to the MOU on terms acceptable in form and substance to Ford, the UAW and class counsel; Fords completion of discussions with the Staff of the SEC regarding accounting treatment with respect to the New VEBA and the Retiree Medical Benefits for the Covered Group as set forth in the MOU, on a basis reasonably satisfactory to Ford; if applicable, a determination by Ford that the New VEBA satisfies the requirements of Section 302(c)(5) of the LMRA; and the occurrence of the Effective Date.
Termination
The MOU will terminate if: (i) the Implementation Date has not occurred by December 31, 2011 and Ford and the UAW do not agree to an extension of time to reach the Implementation Date; or (ii) the conditions precedent set forth in the MOU are not met by December 31, 2011 and Ford and the UAW do not agree to an extension of time to meet the conditions precedent.
 
 
ITEM 8.01 Other Events
.
On November 15, 2007, Ford conducted a conference call with members of the investment community and news media relating to the National Agreement, including the MOU.  A copy of the presentation is attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.  Audio replays of the presentation are available through Friday, November 23, 2007 by dialing toll free (888) 286-8010 or by dialing (617) 801-6888 internationally.  The passcode for replays is 14302902.
.
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
- 6 -
 
 

 
 
The UAW and the Company have discussed at length the Companys on-going financial difficulties, loss of market share and other competitive challenges.  The parties have also discussed that the current cost of providing post-retirement medical care is one of the most critical issues facing the Companys ability to compete in the North American marketplace.  The UAWs goal in these discussions was to secure, to the greatest extent possible, these benefits which are absolutely crucial to the retirement security of UAW retirees who have spent a lifetime working for the Company.
 
In connection with these discussions, the Company has provided the UAW extensive access to the Companys financial records as well as actuarial information about the current and future costs of the Companys post-retirement medical programs.  The UAW, along with its outside consultants and advisors, has conducted a thorough review of the Companys financial position and the actuarial information.
 
The importance of permanently restructuring post-retirement medical coverage for UAW represented employees and retirees is underscored by the fact that the Company advised the UAW that it plans to terminate the settlement agreement approved in the class action of , Civil Action No. 05-74730 (the Hardwick Case), in accordance with its terms in 2011, and exercise its right to terminate and/or modify post-retirement medical coverage for UAW retirees and their dependents.  In these discussions, the UAW has reasserted its legal position that post-retirement medical coverage for current UAW retirees is vested and unalterable.
Intl Union, UAW, et al. v. Ford Motor Company
 
As a result of these discussions, the parties have agreed, as set forth below, that responsibility for providing post retirement medical benefits will permanently shift from the Company to the New Plan and New VEBA as described in this MOU.  This MOU is subject in its entirety to ratification and necessary approvals as described below.  This shall include, , approval by the SEC of settlement or negative plan amendment accounting, and district court approval of this Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) and the Final Settlement Documentation acceptable to the parties and Class Counsel, including approval of a non-opt out class.
inter
alia
 
1.   
  
Definitions
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
2.           Coverage.
  Under this MOU and the Final Settlement Documentation the New Plan and the New VEBA will, as of the Implementation Date, assume responsibility for all Retiree Medical Benefits for which the Company would have formerly been responsible with regard to the Covered Group.  The medical benefit coverages for active employees prior to their retirement are not within the scope of this MOU and will continue to be provided in accordance with the terms of the applicable collective bargaining agreement and health care benefit plan.  Similarly, Retiree Medical Benefits for UAW-represented employees who are not Current Employees are outside the scope of this MOU and such benefits, if any, will be provided in accordance with the applicable provisions of the 2007 or a subsequent Ford-UAW National Collective Bargaining Agreement.
 
3.           Benefits for the Covered Group.
  Retiree Medical Benefits for the Covered Group will be provided as follows:  (i) Retiree Medical Benefits will continue to be provided through the Implementation Date under the Ford Retiree Health Plan at the same scope and level set forth in the Hardwick Settlement Agreement, including Mitigation (for those entitled to it) by the Existing External VEBA; (ii) from the Implementation Date through December 31, 2015, Retiree Medical Benefits will continue to be provided at the scope and level set forth in the Hardwick Settlement Agreement but shall be provided through the New Plan and the New VEBA; and (iii) commencing January 1, 2016, Retiree Medical Benefits will continue to be provided through the New Plan and New VEBA at the scope and level set forth in the Hardwick Settlement Agreement, except that the Escalation (as defined in the Hardwick Settlement Agreement) will be 4%.  Provided that as to both (ii) and (iii) the Committee will have the authority provided for in the Trust Agreement as set forth in paragraph 16  Trust Agreement and the Companys funding obligation with respect to the New Plan and the New VEBA will be capped in accordance with paragraph 13  Future Contributions.  The scope and level of Retiree Medical Benefits to be provided through the New Plan and the New VEBA are subject to the level of funds available in the New VEBA.
 
4.           Implementation of New VEBA and Benefits Upon the Implementation Date.
  The New VEBA shall be solely responsible for providing Retiree Medical Benefits to the Covered Group beginning with claims incurred on or after the Implementation Date.  In this regard, the Approval Order shall provide that on the Implementation Date the New VEBA shall assume all the responsibilities and liabilities of the Company and any Company benefit plan associated with the provision of Retiree Medical Benefits for the Covered Group for claims incurred on or after the Implementation Date and all the responsibilities and liabilities of the Existing External VEBA on such date.  The parties agree that the provisions of the Ford Retiree Health Plan in any way related to Retiree Medical Benefits for the Covered Group and all applicable collective bargaining agreements, letters and understandings in any way related to Retiree Medical Benefits for the Covered Group will be amended to terminate effective on the Implementation Date.  No Retiree Medical Benefits, premiums or payments related to claims incurred after the Implementation Date will be provided by the Company or a Company benefit plan to the Covered Group after the Implementation Date.  The Ford Retiree Health Plan will remain responsible for premiums and claims incurred prior to the Implementation Date and the payment of such claims will not reduce the Companys funding obligations regarding the New VEBA under this MOU.
4
 
 
5.           Existing Internal VEBA.
  All the assets in the existing internal VEBA shall be invested by the Company in a manner consistent with the long-term nature of the health care liabilities.  This investment approach is expected to be similar to the manner in which assets were invested in the past in other Ford VEBAs for long-term health care liabilities.  During the period beginning January 1, 2008 and ending on the Implementation Date no amounts, including asset returns, will be disbursed from the Existing Internal VEBA.  When the Implementation Date occurs, the Company will cause the assets in the Existing Internal VEBA on the date of the transfer to be transferred from the Existing Internal VEBA to the New VEBA as provided in paragraph 9  Sequencing of Initial Payments to the New VEBA.  The Company can elect to transfer cash in lieu of some or all of the investments in the Existing Internal VEBA, including an amount equivalent to accrued and unpaid interest and dividends net of reasonable liquidation costs.
 
6.           Temporary Asset Account.
  On January 1, 2008, or as soon as reasonably practicable thereafter, the Company shall establish a Temporary Asset Account (TAA) to be held by the Company or a wholly owned subsidiary thereof.  The Company shall deposit to the TAA a contingent cash payment in an amount equal to the difference between $6.473 billion and the value of the Existing Internal VEBA on January 1, 2008, plus interest on the amount of the contingent cash payment at 9% for the period from January 1, 2008 to the date of deposit.  The $6.473 billion includes the UAWs estimate of the present value of the wage deferral (including the Cost of Living Allowance ("COLA") deferrals and non-payment of the September 18, 2006 general increase to the hourly wage rate) established pursuant to Section 13. B. of the Hardwick Settlement Agreement ($1.7 billion for years commencing on or after January 1, 2010), the UAW's decision to forego a wage increase of 3% in 2009 ($0.8 billion), and COLA adjustments ($0.5 billion) as referred to in sub paragraph 10.c of this MOU.  Except as provided in this MOU, control of the TAA and the assets in it shall be solely within the Companys discretion.  To the extent practicable, all assets in the TAA, other than the Ford convertible note and the term note described in Appendix B, shall be invested by the Company in a manner consistent with the long-term nature of the health care liabilities.  This investment approach is expected to be similar to the manner in which assets were invested in the past in other Company VEBAs for long-term health care liabilities.
5
 
7.           Convertible Note and Term Note.
  On January 1, 2008, or as soon as practicable thereafter, the Company will deposit in the TAA the Ford convertible note and the Ford term note described in Appendix B.
 
8.           Payment to New VEBA.
  When the Implementation Date occurs, the balance in the TAA as of the Implementation Date, excluding the convertible note and the term note provided for in Appendix B (the TAA Equivalency), shall be deposited in the New VEBA as provided in section 9  Sequencing of Initial Payments to the New VEBA.  If the Implementation Date does not occur because (a) the Approval Order has been disapproved or modified as the result of an appeal, or (b) the Company has not completed, on a basis reasonably satisfactory to the Company, its discussions with the staff of the SEC regarding accounting treatment with respect to the New VEBA and the Companys obligation for Retiree Medical Benefits for the Covered Group as set forth in paragraph 23  Accounting Treatment, the TAA shall be terminated.  In addition, if the Implementation Date has not occurred by December 31, 2011, the TAA shall be terminated.  Upon termination of the TAA, the remaining assets may be used for any corporate purpose or purposes by the Company.  The December 31, 2011 date may be extended by agreement between the Company and the UAW.
 
9.           Sequencing of Initial Payments to the New VEBA; Termination of Existing External VEBA and TAA.
 The initial payments to the New VEBA shall be made, and the Existing External VEBA and TAA shall be terminated, as provided below.
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
10.           Wage Deferral.
 
 
7
 
 
           The Company will make an initial Base Amount Contribution of $52.3 million to the TAA on April 1, 2008.  Thereafter, for each of the 14 succeeding years, the Company will contribute a Base Amount Contribution to the New VEBA (or the TAA for periods prior to the Implementation Date) by April 1 of each year in an amount as shown in Appendix A.  Further, the Company reserves the right to pre-fund, at any time, all then-remaining future annual Base Amount Contribution payments by paying the applicable buyout amount as shown in Appendix A.
11.
Base Amount Contributions.  
 
12.           Other Payments to the Existing External VEBA.
 
 
 
13.           Future Contributions.
  The UAW and the Covered Group may not negotiate to increase any of the funding obligations set out herein. The UAW also agrees not to seek to obligate the Company to:  (i) provide any additional contributions to the New VEBA; (ii) make any other payments for the purpose of providing Retiree Medical Benefits to the Covered Group; or (iii) provide Retiree Medical Benefits through any other means to the Covered Group. Provided, that, to the extent that may be proposed by the UAW, employees are permitted to make contributions to the New VEBA of amounts otherwise payable in profit sharing, COLA, wages and/or signing bonuses.  The Approval Order shall specify that any such future contribution by employees is permitted under Section 302 of the Labor Management Relations Act, 29 U.S.C. 186.
8
 
14.           Administrative Costs.
  The New VEBA will be responsible for all administrative costs of the New Plan and the New VEBA commencing on the Implementation Date.
 
 
15.           Trust Management.
  During the negotiations regarding this MOU, the UAW proposed that the Company agree to structure the New VEBA as a multi-employer trust governed by a joint labor-management committee in accordance with Section 302(c)(5) of the Labor Management Relations Act, 29 U.S.C. 186(c)(5), that included Company representation.  The Company responded by indicating that it would consider the request subject to the need to secure appropriate accounting treatment as set forth in paragraph 23  Accounting Treatment.  To resolve this issue, the Company has agreed to include as a part of its submission to the SEC a request for guidance on the impact of a Company representative serving as a member of the New VEBA trust committee in accordance with the terms of the trust agreement as described in paragraph 16  Trust Agreement.  If as a result of the Companys discussions with the SEC staff the Company reasonably believes that participation on the New VEBA trust committee would adversely impact the Companys proposed accounting regarding the transaction, the Company may elect not to participate on the New VEBA trust committee.  The Companys failure to secure the required favorable accounting treatment as set forth in paragraph 23  Accounting Treatment will result in no Company participation on the New VEBA trust committee.
 
In the event that the Covered Group and retirees from General Motors and/or Chrysler are eligible to receive benefits under the New Plan funded by the New VEBA, the Trust Agreement and the Final Settlement Documentation will provide for separate Company Accounts and that the assets in each Company Account may only be used for the covered group of retirees of each respective company.  If the Covered Group and retirees of General Motors and/or Chrysler participate in the New Plan and the New VEBA, all benefits provided to each covered group shall be paid from the respective companys Company Account.  No assets in the Ford Company Account may be used to pay for benefits to persons other than the Covered Group and assets from any other Company Account in the New VEBA may not be used to pay for benefits for the Covered Group.  In addition, the Trust Agreement, Final Settlement Documentation and Approval Order shall provide that the Company or the Ford CompanyAccount will not have any liability for the obligations of either General Motors and/or Chrysler or their retirees if a multi-employer structure should apply.
 
16.           Trust Agreement.
  The Final Settlement Documentation will include a trust agreement (the Trust Agreement) which will govern the operation of the New VEBA.  The Trust Agreement shall be prepared by the UAW and Class Counsel, and shall be subject to approval by the Company whose approval shall not be unreasonably withheld.  The trust agreement will incorporate the following:
 
9
 
 
 
 
 
10
 
17.           Default and Cure.
  The Committee of the New VEBA will have the right to accelerate some or all of the payment obligations of the Company under this MOU if the Company defaults on any payment obligations under this MOU and such default is not cured within 15 business days after the Committee gives the Company notice of such default.  To cure such default, the Company will pay the amount then in default plus accrued interest on such amount at the rate of 9% per annum.  Payments due under the convertible note and term note may also be accelerated under this provision only to the extent that the note is then held by the New VEBA.  The Company also agrees to provide the trust with the same covenants in Section 10.04 of the Ford Indenture, filed with the SEC, dated January 30, 2002.
 
18.           Cooperation.
  The Company shall cooperate with the Committee and at the Committees request undertake such reasonable actions as will assist the Committee in the transition of responsibility for plan administration from the Company to the New VEBA and the Committee.  Such cooperation shall include educational efforts and communications with respect to the Covered Group so that they understand the transition and understand the claims submission process and any other administrative changes undertaken by the Committee. Before and after the Implementation Date, at the Committees request and as permitted by law, the Company shall furnish to the Committee such information and shall provide such cooperation as may be reasonably necessary to permit the Committee to effectively administer the New VEBA and the New Plan, including, without limitation, the implementation and administration of voluntary premium deductions from the pension benefits of retirees, and the retrieval of data in a form and to the extent maintained by the Company regarding age, service, pension and medical benefit eligibility, marital status, mortality, claims history and enrollment information of the Covered Group.  The Company shall also cooperate with the Union and the Committee and undertake such reasonable actions as will enable the Committee to perform its administrative functions with respect to the New Plan and New VEBA, including ensuring an orderly transition from Company administration of the Retiree Medical Benefits to the New Plan and New VEBA.  The Company shall be financially responsible for reasonable costs associated with the transition of coverage for the Covered Group to the New Plan and New VEBA.  This shall include educational efforts and communications with respect to retirees, creation of administrative procedures, initial development of record sharing procedures, the testing of computer systems, vendor selection and contracting, and other activities incurred on or before the Implementation Date, including but not limited to costs associated with drafting the trust agreement for the New VEBA, seeking from the Internal Revenue Service a determination of the tax-exempt status of the New VEBA, plan design and actuarial and other professional work necessary for initiation of the New Plan and New VEBA and the benefits to be provided there under.  The Company payments described in this Paragraph shall not reduce its funding, and if the New VEBA is a multi-employer welfare trust shall be pro-rated among the participating companies based on the ratio of required funding for each company.  Payment of these costs shall be set forth explicitly in the Approval Order.  Notwithstanding this paragraph, the Dental Benefit Eligibility & Enrollment Plan Sponsor Agreement and the Administrative Services Agreement, each by and between the Company and the Trust Committee of the Independent Health Care Trust for the UAW Retirees of Ford Motor Company, shall remain in full force and effect until otherwise terminated by the parties thereto.
 
19.           Fees.
  The UAW will apply to the court for reimbursement of reasonable attorney and professional fees (not to include any success fee, completion bonus or rate premiums) for work performed in connection with the court proceedings and approval for the payment of certain professional fees associated with the settlement process.  The Company agrees not to oppose such application for reasonable fees, and the Company shall bear the cost of mailing all required notices to Company related class members in connection with obtaining court approval.
11
 
20.           Indemnification.
  The parties will seek court approval of a mutually agreeable indemnity provision whereby the Company agrees to indemnify the UAW from liability incurred as a result of the UAWs entering into, or participation in the discussions regarding this MOU.
 
21.           Legal Judgment.
  There is currently a dispute between the Company and the UAW regarding whether the Company can unilaterally modify Retiree Medical Benefits or whether such benefits are vested with respect to Covered Group Members currently receiving Retiree Medical Benefits.  The Hardwick Case was filed by the UAW and retirees in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan regarding this dispute.  As soon as reasonably practical, the Company and the UAW will jointly file a motion in the Hardwick Case to modify or amend the settlement agreement in that case to conform to the terms of this MOU and Final Settlement Documentation, promptly serve a copy of the motion on Class Counsel, and take whatever other action is reasonably necessary to obtain a judgment modifying the existing Hardwick Settlement Agreement as described and approving a superseding class-wide settlement which (a) incorporates this MOU and the Final Settlement Documentation, and (b) is binding on all the Covered Group, the Company and the UAW.  The parties will work diligently and in good faith to finalize, as soon as possible, a settlement agreement, secure class certification, and obtain a judgment approving a class settlement that is fair for all class members, consistent with the terms of this MOU and binding upon the Covered Group.  The parties will also work in good faith to support the settlement should any appeals be filed.
 
22.           No Prejudice.
  This MOU, and anything occurring in connection with reaching this MOU, are without prejudice to the Company, the UAW and the Covered Group.  It is intended that neither party nor the Covered Group may use this MOU, or anything occurring in connection with reaching this MOU, as evidence against the Company, the UAW or the Covered Group in any circumstance except where the parties are operating under or enforcing this MOU or the Approval Order.
 
23.           Accounting Treatment.
  Throughout the negotiations, the Company has emphasized that a key element in its decision to enter into the MOU is securing satisfactory accounting treatment regarding the transaction.  In the event that the economic substance of the transaction does not meet the specific requirements for settlement accounting as determined by paragraphs 90-95 of FASB Statement No. 106, as amended, it is expected that the terms of this MOU would give rise to substantive plan amendment accounting as of the Effective Date.  For purposes of this provision, substantive plan amendment accounting would reflect the Companys revised, fixed and capped obligations as determined under this MOU.  The parties shall cooperate to provide, prior to the Effective Date, the Covered Group and all other plan participants of the Ford Retiree Health Plan with reasonably acceptable communications to ensure accounting treatment consistent with this paragraph 23 with respect to the changes implemented by this MOU.  The parties agree that the MOU, Final Settlement Agreement Documentation and Effective Date are contingent on the Company securing the appropriate accounting treatment for the Companys obligations to the Covered Group for Retiree Medical Benefits.  As soon as practicable after ratification of the MOU, the Company will discuss the accounting for the New VEBA and its obligations to the Covered Group for Retiree Medical Benefits with the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).  If, as a result of those discussions, the Company believes that the accounting for the transaction may not be a settlement as contemplated by paragraphs 90-95 of FASB Statement No. 106, as amended, or a substantive negative plan amendment reasonably satisfactory to the Company, the parties will meet in an effort to restructure the transaction to achieve such accounting.  If the parties are unable to reach an agreement on terms that the Company reasonably believes will provide such accounting, the MOU will terminate.  If the discussions with the staff of the SEC are not complete by the date of the Final Settlement Documentation, the Final Settlement Documentation will contain a corresponding provision regarding the appropriate accounting and termination of the final settlement if such accounting is not achieved as to the New VEBA and Companys obligations to the Covered Group for Retiree Medical Benefits.
12
 
24.           Conditions Precedent.
  This MOU is subject, in its entirety, to ratification in accordance with the UAW Constitution; obtaining a class certification order in a form acceptable in form and substance to the Company, the UAW and Class Counsel; obtaining an Approval Order as defined herein including appropriate releases, in a form acceptable in form and substance to the Company, the UAW and Class Counsel; treatment of the Hardwick Settlement Agreement as described in this MOU; the Companys completion, on a basis reasonably satisfactory to the Company, of its discussions with the staff of the SEC regarding accounting treatment with respect to the New VEBA and the Retiree Medical Benefits for the Covered Group as set forth in paragraph 23  Accounting Treatment; and if applicable, a determination by the Company that the New VEBA satisfies the requirements of Section 302(c)(5) of the Labor Management Relations Act and that the Company Sub-account can be lawfully segregated from claims by General Motors and/or Chrysler retirees; and the occurrence of the Effective Date as defined herein.  In the event that the Implementation Date has not occurred before January 1, 2012, but the court approval process is still underway on such date, the Company and the UAW may, by mutual agreement, maintain in full force and effect the Hardwick Settlement Agreement.
 
25.           Final Documents.
  All matters set forth in this agreement are subject to full legal documentation satisfactory to the parties consistent with the provisions set forth in this agreement.
 
26.           Health Care Reform.
  The Company will publicly support federal policies to improve the quality and affordability of health care, and work cooperatively with the UAW towards that goal in accordance with Attachment D of the Memorandum of Understanding dated December 14, 2005.
 
27.           National Institute For Health Care Reform.
  The parties agree to form a National Institute for Health Care Reform to be effective on or after the Effective Date.  The details of such an institute require further discussion and analysis by the parties with the goal of completing such discussions by the date of the Final Settlement Documentation.  Subject to General Motors and Chrysler participation and their financial support on a proportionate basis, the Company agrees to make five annual $1.0 million dollar contributions to support a National Institute for Health Care Reform commencing on the later of the Effective Date or establishment of the institute.
 
13
 
Such institute would be established to conduct research and to analyze  the current medical delivery system in the United States, develop targeted and broad-based reform proposals to improve the quality, affordability and accountability of the system, and educate the public, policymakers and others about how these reforms could address the deficiencies in the current system, ., skyrocketing costs, massive number of people left uninsured, profit driven decision-making on delivery of care, etc.  The Institute would be the premier research and educational health care reform think tank dedicated to understanding, evaluating and developing thoughtful and innovative reform measures that would improve the medical delivery system in the U.S. and expand access to high quality, affordable and accountable health coverage for all Americans.  The Institute would:
e.g
 
28.           No Responsibility for Asset Returns.
  The parties recognize that the Company is not responsible for, nor does it guarantee the asset returns of the amounts in the TAA or the New VEBA.
 
29.           Termination.
  This MOU shall terminate if:
 
 
14
 
 
15
Base Amount Contributions  The Annual Payments listed above shall be made on or before April 1 of each year; if payment is made after April 1, such payment shall be increased to reflect 9% annual earnings for the period between April 1 and the date of payment.  The Buyout Amounts listed above are based on payment as of January 1 of the applicable year.  If the Company makes a Buyout Amount payment on January 1, it shall pay the amount listed in the Buyout Column for the applicable year.  If the Company makes a Buyout Amount payment between January 1 and the applicable scheduled annual payment date as listed above, it shall increase the applicable Buyout Amount listed above to reflect 9% annual earnings for the period between January 1 and the date of payment.
16
 
17
 
 
18
 
19
 
Registration Rights are typically requested by holders of restricted securities.  These rights require the issuer to file a registration statement so that holders of the security can sell their securities in the public market and thus obtain the highest price for the holder given liquidity that the capital markets offer.  In turn, the issuer typically agrees to file a registration statement in return for certain restrictions placed on the holders of the securities.  Share volume restrictions are typical to ensure that an orderly sale of the securities is executed.
 
Following are provisions to be included in the Registration Rights Agreement between Ford and the VEBA Trust, which will be applicable to the Convertible Note and the shares of Ford common stock underlying the Convertible Note, but will not be applicable to the Second Lien Term Note.  These are typical of a registration rights agreement and are similar to those registration rights provided by Ford in other transactions while taking into consideration the type and structure of the security being issued.
 
 
20
 
 
21
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
SLIDE 1
 
 
SLIDE 2
 
 
SLIDE 3
 
 
SLIDE 4
 
 
SLIDE 5
 
 
SLIDE 6
 
 
SLIDE 7
 
 
SLIDE 8
 
 
SLIDE 9
 
 
SLIDE 10
 
 
SLIDE 11
 
 
SLIDE 12
 
 
SLIDE 13
 
 
SLIDE 14
 
 
SLIDE 15
 
 
SLIDE 16
 
 
SLIDE 17
 
 
SLIDE 18
 
 
SLIDE 19
 
 
SLIDE 20
 
 
SLIDE 21
 
 
SLIDE 22
 
 
SLIDE 23
 
 
SLIDE 24
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SLIDE 25


