FILE:F/F-8K-20070726084841.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Ford Motor Company ("Ford") hereby incorporates by reference its news release dated July 26, 2007, which is herewith furnished as Exhibit 99.
Ford will conduct two conference calls on July 26, 2007 to review preliminary second quarter 2007 financial results.  Beginning at 9:00 a.m., Ford's President and Chief Executive Officer Alan Mulally and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Don Leclair will host a presentation for the investment community and news media to review Ford's preliminary second quarter 2007 financial results.  Investors may access this presentation by dialing 800-573-4754 (or 1-617-224-4325 from outside the United States).  The passcode for either telephone number is a verbal response of "Ford Earnings."
At 11:00 a.m., Ford Senior Vice President and Controller Peter Daniel, Ford Vice President and Treasurer Neil Schloss, and Ford Motor Credit Company Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer K.R. Kent will host a presentation for fixed income analysts and investors.  Investors may access this presentation using the same dial-in information as above, with the passcode being a verbal response of "Ford Fixed Income."
A listen-only webcast and supporting presentation materials for these calls will be available on the Internet at .  Investors may also access replays for one week following the presentations by visiting , or by dialing 888-286-8010 (or 1-617-801-6888 from outside the United States).  The passcode for replays of the earnings call is 29481628; the passcode for replays of the fixed income call is 55865600.  All times referenced above are in Eastern Time.
www.shareholder.ford.com
www.shareholder.ford.com
Please note that Exhibit 99 to this Form 8-K discusses pre-tax profits excluding special items for Ford's Automotive sector and the primary operating segments and business units within the Automotive sector.  The most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles is pre-tax profits including special items.  We believe that pre-tax profits excluding special items is a useful measure to provide investors, because it excludes those items that we do not consider to be indicative of earnings from ongoing operating activities.  As a result, pre-tax profits excluding special items provides investors with a more relevant measure of the results generated by our operations.
.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EWS
N
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
FORD REPORTS A NET PROFIT OF $750 MILLION
FOR SECOND QUARTER 2007*
DEARBORN, Mich., July 26, 2007  Ford Motor Company [NYSE: F] today reported a net profit of 31 cents per share, or $750 million, for the second quarter of 2007.  This compares with a net loss of 17 cents per share, or $317 million, in the second quarter of 2006.
Fords second-quarter revenue was $44.2 billion, up from $41.9 billion a year ago.  The increase primarily reflected currency exchange, mix and net pricing improvements, partially offset by lower volume.
 
 
* The financial results discussed herein are presented on a preliminary basis; final data will be included in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2007.
** Earnings per share from continuing operations, excluding special items, is calculated on a basis that includes pre-tax profit and provision for taxes and minority interest.  See table following Safe Harbor/Risk Factors for the nature and amount of these special items and a reconciliation to U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP").
*** See table following Safe Harbor/Risk Factors for a reconciliation of Automotive gross cash to GAAP.
 
Fords second-quarter profit from continuing operations, excluding special items, was 13 cents per share, or $258 million, compared with a loss of 6 cents per share, or $118 million, in the same period a year ago.**
Special items  which primarily reflected the sale of Aston Martin and the recognition of previously deferred gains on certain hedges at Jaguar and Land Rover  increased pre-tax results by $443 million in the second quarter.
With regard to Jaguar and Land Rover, the company confirmed it is currently exploring in greater detail the potential sale of the combined business and is in discussions with selected parties who have expressed interest.  The company also is conducting a strategic review of Volvo that likely will conclude prior to year-end.
 
* See tables following Safe Harbor/Risk Factors for reconciliations to GAAP.
** Earnings per share is calculated on a basis that includes pre-tax profit and provision for taxes and minority interest.  See tables following Safe Harbor/Risk Factors for the nature and amount of these special items and reconciliations to GAAP.
*** See table following Safe Harbor/Risk Factors for a reconciliation of Automotive gross cash to GAAP.
2
We continue to focus on the four priorities of our plan  restructuring the business to operate profitably, accelerating the development of new products that our customers want and value, funding our plan and improving our balance sheet, and working even more effectively together as one global Ford team, leveraging our assets, said Ford President and Chief Executive Officer Alan Mulally.  Our team is very encouraged by the significant progress we are making.  We recognize the challenges that lie ahead and remain fully committed to delivering our plan.
Second-quarter and first-half highlights:
3
AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR
On a pre-tax basis, worldwide Automotive sector profits in the second quarter were $378 million.  This compares with a pre-tax loss of $716 million during the same period a year ago.  The improvements were more than explained by favorable net pricing and cost reductions, partially offset by unfavorable currency exchange.
Vehicle wholesales in the second quarter were 1,773,000, down from 1,806,000 a year ago.  Worldwide Automotive revenue for the second quarter was $40.1 billion, up from $37.8 billion in the same period last year.  The increase primarily reflected currency exchange, mix and net pricing improvements, partially offset by lower volume.
Automotive gross cash, which includes cash and cash equivalents, net marketable securities, loaned securities and short-term VEBA assets, was $37.4 billion at June 30, 2007, up from $35.2 billion at the end of the first quarter.
In the second quarter,Ford North America reported a pre-tax loss of $279 million, compared with a pre-tax loss of $789 million a year ago.  The improvement primarily reflected favorable net pricing and cost reductions, partially offset by lower volume net of mix.  Revenue was $18.8 billion, down from $19.1 billion for the same period a year ago.
Ford North America:  
 
Ford South America reported a second-quarter pre-tax profit of $255 million, compared with a pre-tax profit of $99 million a year ago.  The improvement was primarily explained by favorable net pricing and volume.  Second quarter revenue improved to $1.8 billion from $1.3 billion in 2006.
Ford South America:  
  Ford Europes second-quarter pre-tax profit was $262 million, compared with a pre-tax profit of $185 million during the same period in 2006.  The improvement was more than explained by favorable net pricing and higher volumes, partially offset by higher manufacturing costs, primarily to support increased volumes.  During the second quarter of 2007, Ford Europes revenue was $9.2 billion, compared with $7.5 billion during the second quarter of 2006.
Ford Europe:
4
  PAG reported a pre-tax profit of $140 million for the second quarter, compared with a pre-tax loss of $162 million for the same period in 2006.  All PAG brands improved compared with the same period in 2006.  The improvement was more than explained by favorable cost performance across all brands, including the non-recurrence of adverse 2006 adjustments to warranty accruals.  Favorable net pricing was more than offset by the effect of the continued weakening of the U.S. dollar against key European currencies.  Second-quarter 2007 revenue was $8.4 billion, compared with $7.8 billion a year ago.
Premier Automotive Group
(PAG)
:
For the second quarter, Ford Asia Pacific and Africa reported a pre-tax profit of $26 million, compared with a pre-tax profit of $4 million a year ago.  The improvement reflected strong cost performance, including restructuring savings, and improved results in China.  These factors were partially offset by lower volume and adverse mix, more than explained by Australia and Taiwan, and unfavorable currency exchange.  Revenue was $1.7 billion for the second quarter of 2007, compared with $1.8 billion in 2006.
Ford Asia Pacific and Africa:  
For the second quarter, Ford earned $81 million from its investment in Mazda and associated operations, compared with $32 million during the same period a year ago.
Mazda:
Second-quarter results included a pre-tax loss of $107 million, compared with a loss of $85 million a year ago.  The year-over-year decline was more than explained by higher interest expense associated with financing actions taken in the fourth quarter of 2006.  This was partially offset by increased interest income.
Other Automotive:
FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR
For the second quarter, the Financial Services sector earned a pre-tax profit of $105 million, compared with a pre-tax profit of $425 million a year ago.
  Ford Motor Credit Company reported net income of $62 million in the second quarter of 2007, down $242 million from earnings of $304 million a year earlier.  On a pre-tax basis from continuing operations, Ford Motor Credit earned $112 million in the second quarter compared with $435 million in the previous year. The decrease in earnings primarily reflected higher borrowing costs, lower credit loss reserve reductions, higher depreciation expense for leased vehicles and higher net losses related to market valuation adjustments from derivatives.  Lower expenses, primarily reflecting improved operating costs, were a partial offset.
Ford Motor Credit Company:
5
In the second quarters of 2007 and 2006, pre-tax earnings were $428 million and $667 million, excluding the net losses related to market valuation adjustments from derivatives, which were $316 million and $232 million, respectively.
Ford expects Ford Motor Credit to earn on a pre-tax basis $1.3 billion to $1.4 billion this year, excluding the impact of gains and losses related to market valuation adjustments from derivatives, up from the previous estimate of $1.2 billion.
SECOND-QUARTER CONFERENCE CALL DETAILS
Ford Motor Company [NYSE:F] will release second quarter 2007 financial results at 7 a.m. EDT, Thursday, July 26. The following briefings will be held after the announcement:
At 9 a.m. EDT, Alan Mulally, president and chief executive officer, and Don Leclair, executive vice president and chief financial officer, will host a conference call for news media and the investment community to discuss second quarter results.
Following the earnings call, at 11 a.m. EDT, Ford Senior Vice President and Controller Peter Daniel, Ford Vice President and Treasurer Neil Schloss and Ford Motor Credit Company Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer K.R. Kent will host a conference call for fixed income analysts and investors.
The presentations (listen-only) and supporting materials will be available on the Internet at .  Representatives of the news media and the investment community participating by teleconference will have the opportunity to ask questions following the presentations.
www.shareholder.ford.com
6
Ford Motor Company, a global automotive industry leader based in Dearborn, Mich., manufactures or distributes automobiles in 200 markets across six continents.  With about 260,000 employees and about 100 plants worldwide, the companys core and affiliated automotive brands include Ford, Jaguar, Land Rover, Lincoln, Mercury, Volvo and Mazda.  The company provides financial services through Ford Motor Credit Company.  For more information regarding Fords products, please visit .
www.fordvehicles.com
7
 
Statements included or incorporated by reference herein may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Forward-looking statements are based on expectations, forecasts and assumptions by our management and involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated, including, without limitation:
We cannot be certain that any expectation, forecast or assumption made by management in preparing forward-looking statements will prove accurate, or that any projection will be realized.  It is to be expected that there may be differences between projected and actual results.  Our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of their initial issuance, and we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
8
TOTAL COMPANY INCOME/(LOSS) FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS COMPARED WITH NET INCOME/(LOSS)
TOTAL COMPANY SPECIAL ITEMS
 
9
AUTOMOTIVE GROSS CASH RECONCILIATION TO GAAP
 
 
 


