FILE:F/F-8K-20070501150807.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ]
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ]
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 140.14a-12)
[ ]
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act
(17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ]
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act
(17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 8.01. Other Events
.
Our news release dated May 1, 2007 concerning U.S. retail sales of Ford vehicles in April 2007, filed as Exhibit 99 to this report, is incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

NEWS
IMMEDIATE RELEASE
FORD MOTOR COMPANY REPORTS APRIL U.S. SALES
 
 
DEARBORN
,
Mich., May 1 - Ford Motor Companys April U.S. sales totaled 228,623, down 13 percent compared with a year ago.
With April behind us, we remain focused on getting the word out about the strength of our new products, and our marketing offensive is moving into high gear, said Mark Fields, Ford's President of The Americas. Customers are responding very positively to our new Ford Challenge ads that pit Ford vehicles against the best of the competition, so were accelerating our plans.
Today, Ford begins airing two new F-Series truck ads starring Mike Rowe, creator and star of the Discovery Channels hit show Dirty Jobs. The ads demonstrate the clear advantages of Ford Tough trucks in safety, strength and capability.
 
Fords internal data show that the Ford Challenge campaign has generated a strong response in product favorability, purchase consideration and sales.
Following the start of the successful Fusion Challenge ads in January, the Ford Fusion posted double-digit sales increases throughout the first quarter.
 
 
Go to for news releases and high-resolution photographs.
http://media.ford.com
 
 
Strong Crossover Growth Continues
Although April sales for most products were lower than a year ago, new crossover utilities helped Ford increase its share of the industrys fastest growing category. Ford Edge sales were 9,134, and Lincoln MKX sales were 2,901. In addition, Land Rover introduced its first crossover utility, the LR2, and first month sales were 1,302. Total Ford Motor Company crossover sales were 28 percent higher than a year ago during April.
The success of our newest products - Ford Fusion, Edge, Lincoln MKX, Ford Super Duty and Ford Expedition - gives us encouragement that were creating the products our customers really want, and were beginning to stabilize our retail market share, Fields said.
Three years ago, 70 percent of new Ford Motor Company vehicles sold in the U.S. were trucks and traditional SUVs. Today, the balance is nearly 50 percent cars and crossovers, and 50 percent trucks and SUVs, Fields explained. We will continue to introduce new crossovers and even more small cars in the U.S., as they represent the consumer growth segments going forward.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Go to for news releases and high-resolution photographs.
http://media.ford.com


