FILE:F/F-8K-20071108083019.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
- 2 -
 
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Ford Motor Company ("Ford") hereby incorporates by reference its news release dated November 8, 2007, which is herewith furnished as Exhibit 99.
Ford will conduct two conference calls on November 8, 2007 to review preliminary third quarter 2007 financial results.  Beginning at 9:00 a.m., Ford's President and Chief Executive Officer Alan Mulally and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Don Leclair will host a presentation for the investment community and news media to review Ford's preliminary third quarter 2007 financial results.  Investors may access this presentation by dialing 800-798-2884 (or 1-617-614-6207 from outside the United States).  The passcode for either telephone number is a verbal response of "Ford Earnings."
At 11:00 a.m., Ford Senior Vice President and Controller Peter Daniel, Ford Vice President and Treasurer Neil Schloss, and Ford Motor Credit Company Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer K.R. Kent will host a presentation for fixed income analysts and investors.  Investors may access this presentation using the same dial-in information as above, with the passcode being a verbal response of "Ford Fixed Income."
A listen-only webcast and supporting presentation materials for these calls will be available on the Internet at .  Investors may also access replays for one week following the presentations by visiting , or by dialing 888-286-8010 (or 1-617-801-6888 from outside the United States).  The passcode for replays of the earnings call is 29481628; the passcode for replays of the fixed income call is 55865600.  All times referenced above are in Eastern Time.
www.shareholder.ford.com
www.shareholder.ford.com
Please note that Exhibit 99 to this Form 8-K discusses pre-tax profits excluding special items for Ford's Automotive sector and the primary operating segments and business units within the Automotive sector.  The most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles is pre-tax profits including special items.  We believe that pre-tax profits excluding special items is a useful measure to provide investors, because it excludes those items that we do not consider to be indicative of earnings from ongoing operating activities.  As a result, pre-tax profits excluding special items provides investors with a more relevant measure of the results generated by our operations.
.
Item 9.01. 
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
- 3 -
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
- 4 -
 
 
 
 
 

N
EWS
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
FORD REPORTS THIRD QUARTER 2007 RESULTS 
CONTINUES TO MAKE SIGNIFICANT PROGRESS ON ITS PLAN*
 
DEARBORN, Mich., Nov. 8, 2007  Ford Motor Company [NYSE: F] today reported a net loss of 19 cents per share, or $380 million, for the third quarter of 2007.  This compares with a net loss of $2.79 per share, or $5.2 billion, in the third quarter of 2006.
Fords third-quarter revenue was $41.1 billion, up from $37.1 billion a year ago.  The increase primarily reflected higher net pricing, changes in currency exchange rates, and improved product mix.
Fords third-quarter loss from continuing operations, excluding special items, was 1 cent per share, or $24 million, compared with a loss of 45 cents per share, or $850 million, in the same period a year ago.**
Special items reduced pre-tax results by $350 million in the third quarter.  These were more than explained by costs associated with our previously announced Trust Preferred Securities exchange offer, and charges associated with Ford Europe and PAG personnel reductions and other restructuring actions.  Favorable cost adjustments associated with Ford North America personnel reduction programs were a partial offset.
 
* The financial results discussed herein are presented on a preliminary basis; final data will be included in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended Sept. 30, 2007.
** Earnings per share from continuing operations, excluding special items, is calculated on a basis that includes pre-tax profit and provision for taxes and minority interest.  See tables following Safe Harbor/Risk Factors for the nature and amount of these special items and a reconciliation to U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP").
 
 
Automotive gross cash, which includes cash and cash equivalents, net marketable securities, loaned securities and short-term VEBA assets, was $35.6 billion at Sept. 30, 2007, an increase of $1.7 billion from year-end 2006.
The company continues to explore in greater detail the potential sale of Jaguar and Land Rover with interested parties and anticipates these discussions will culminate in an agreement no later than early next year.
In addition, the company has been conducting a strategic review of Volvo, and has developed a plan.  The first priority of the plan is to improve financial performance at Volvo.  The plan also includes: enhancing Volvos position as a global producer of premium vehicles; establishing appropriate business arrangements between Volvo and Ford-brand operations to allow Volvo to operate on a more stand-alone basis in the absence of the PAG structure; and, continuing to achieve synergies between Ford-brand operations and Volvo in areas such as product development and purchasing.  The company plans to disclose Volvos financial performance beginning with 2008 results.
 
2
 
Our third quarter performance is very encouraging, said Ford President and Chief Executive Officer Alan Mulally.  We can see our plan taking hold with significant improvement continuing in our core Automotive operations.  We remain committed to executing the four priorities of our plan  restructuring the business to operate profitably, accelerating the development of new products that our customers want and value, funding our plan and improving our balance sheet, and working even more effectively together as one Ford team, leveraging our global assets.
 
Highlights for 2007 thus far include:
 
 
3
 
AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR
On a pre-tax basis, worldwide Automotive sector losses in the third quarter were $362 million.  This compares with a pre-tax loss of $1.9 billion during the same period a year ago.  The improvements were more than explained by higher net pricing, lower costs, and improved volume and mix, partially offset by higher interest expense, and unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates.
Vehicle wholesales in the third quarter were 1,487,000, up from 1,467,000 a year ago.  Worldwide Automotive revenue for the third quarter was $36.3 billion, up from $32.5 billion in the same period last year.  The increase primarily reflected higher net pricing, changes in currency exchange rates, and improved product mix.
In the third quarter,Ford North America reported a pre-tax loss of $1.0 billion, compared with a pre-tax loss of $2.1 billion a year ago.  The improvement primarily reflected higher net pricing and improved product mix, partially offset by unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates.  Revenue was $16.5 billion, up from $15.4 billion for the same period a year ago.
Ford North America:  
 
Ford South America reported a third-quarter pre-tax profit of $386 million, compared with a pre-tax profit of $201 million a year ago.  The improvement was primarily explained by higher net pricing and higher volume.  Third quarter revenue improved to $2.1 billion from $1.5 billion in 2006.
Ford South America:  
  Ford Europes third-quarter pre-tax profit was $293 million, compared with a pre-tax loss of $13 million during the same period in 2006.  The improvement was more than explained by lower costs and higher net pricing, partially offset by lower volume and less favorable mix.  During the third quarter of 2007, Ford Europes revenue was $8.3 billion, compared with $7.3 billion during the third quarter of 2006.
Ford Europe:
 
4
 
  PAG reported a pre-tax loss of $97 million for the third quarter, compared with a pre-tax loss of $508 million for the same period in 2006.  The third-quarter 2007 result reflected a loss at Volvo, partially offset by a small profit at the combined Jaguar and Land Rover operation. The year-over-year improvement was primarily explained by cost reductions across all brands, including the non-recurrence of adverse 2006 adjustments to warranty reserves.  Higher volumes and higher net pricing were partially offset by the effect of the continued weakening of the U.S. dollar against key European currencies.  Third-quarter 2007 revenue was $7.4 billion, compared with $6.5 billion a year ago.
Premier Automotive Group
(PAG)
:
For the third quarter, Ford Asia Pacific and Africa reported a pre-tax profit of $30 million, compared with a pre-tax loss of $56 million a year ago.  The improvement primarily reflected cost reductions and higher net pricing, partially offset by adverse product mix, mainly in Australia.  Revenue was $1.8 billion for the third quarter of 2007, compared with $1.6 billion in 2006.
Ford Asia Pacific and Africa:  
For the third quarter, Ford earned $18 million from its investment in Mazda and associated operations, compared with $40 million during the same period a year ago.
Mazda:
: Third-quarter results included a pre-tax profit of $29 million, compared with a profit of $553 million a year ago.  The year-over-year deterioration primarily reflected the non-recurrence of last years tax-related interest.
Other Automotive
FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR
For the third quarter, the Financial Services sector earned a pre-tax profit of $556 million, compared with a pre-tax profit of $750 million a year ago.
:  On a pre-tax basis from continuing operations, Ford Motor Credit Company earned $546 million in the third quarter compared with $730 million in the previous year.  The decrease in earnings was more than explained by the non-recurrence of prior-year credit loss reserve reductions, higher depreciation expense for leased vehicles and higher borrowing costs.
Ford Motor Credit Company
OUTLOOK
The company is ahead of its 2007 plan both on a pre-tax and net income basis, and anticipates substantial year-over-year improvement in fourth quarter results.  Fourth quarter Automotive and Company pre-tax results are expected to be a loss, more than explained by North America.  Full-year pre-tax results excluding special items are expected to be in the range of a small loss to breakeven, which would be a significant improvement from a year ago.
5
 
Excluding gains or losses from future divestitures, special items for full-year 2007 are expected to be a charge in the range of $1 billion to $2 billion, including a one-time, non-cash charge estimated to be approximately $1.4 billion relating to a proposed change in business practice for offering and announcing retail variable marketing incentives to our dealers.
 
Ford Motor Credit expects to earn $1.3 billion to $1.4 billion this year on a pre-tax basis, excluding the impact of gains and losses related to market valuation adjustments from derivatives, consistent with the previous estimate.
Looking ahead, the companys progress in 2007 reflects it is on track to meet its goal of being profitable in North America and Total Automotive in 2009.  The company also is on track to meet its North American cost reduction target of $5 billion by 2008 as compared with 2005.  Progress is being made on achieving U.S. market share goals, and the company is ahead of its $17 billion cash outflow target for the 2007 to 2009 period.
Our third-quarter and year-to-date performance indicate that our plan is working, said Mulally.  Our full-year pre-tax outlook excluding special items is to be substantially better than 2006.  We remain committed to improving our business and delivering our plan.
THIRD-QUARTER CONFERENCE CALL DETAILS
Ford Motor Company [NYSE:F] will release third quarter 2007 financial results at 7 a.m. EST, Thursday, Nov. 8. The following briefings will be held after the announcement:
At 9 a.m. EST, Alan Mulally, president and chief executive officer, and Don Leclair, executive vice president and chief financial officer, will host a conference call for news media and the investment community to discuss third quarter results.
Following the earnings call, at 11 a.m. EST, Ford Senior Vice President and Controller Peter Daniel, Ford Vice President and Treasurer Neil Schloss and Ford Motor Credit Company Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer K.R. Kent will host a conference call for fixed income analysts and investors.
The presentations (listen-only) and supporting materials will be available on the Internet at .  Representatives of the news media and the investment community participating by teleconference will have the opportunity to ask questions following the presentations.
www.shareholder.ford.com
6
 
Ford Motor Company, a global automotive industry leader based in Dearborn, Mich., manufactures or distributes automobiles in 200 markets across six continents.  With about 250,000 employees and about 100 plants worldwide, the companys core and affiliated automotive brands include Ford, Jaguar, Land Rover, Lincoln, Mercury, Volvo and Mazda.  The company provides financial services through Ford Motor Credit Company.  For more information regarding Fords products, please visit .
www.fordvehicles.com
7
Statements included herein may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Forward-looking statements are based on expectations, forecasts and assumptions by our management and involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated, including, without limitation:
We cannot be certain that any expectation, forecast or assumption made by management in preparing forward-looking statements will prove accurate, or that any projection will be realized.  It is to be expected that there may be differences between projected and actual results.  Our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of their initial issuance, and we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.  For additional discussion of these risks, see "Item 1A. Risk Factors" in our 2006 Form 10-K Report.
8
 
TOTAL COMPANY INCOME/(LOSS) FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS COMPARED WITH NET INCOME/(LOSS)
TOTAL COMPANY SPECIAL ITEMS
9
 
AUTOMOTIVE GROSS CASH RECONCILIATION TO GAAP
 
 


