FILE:F/F-8K-20080424084544.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Ford Motor Company ("Ford") hereby incorporates by reference its news release dated April 24, 2008, which is herewith provided as Exhibit 99.
Ford will conduct two conference calls on April 24, 2008 to review preliminary first quarter 2008 financial results.  Beginning at 9:00 a.m., Ford's President and Chief Executive Officer Alan Mulally and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Don Leclair will host a presentation for the investment community and news media to review Ford's preliminary first quarter 2008 financial results.  Investors may access this presentation by dialing 800-573-4754 (or 1-617-224-4325 from outside the United States).  The passcode for either telephone number is a verbal response of "Ford Earnings."
At 11:00 a.m., Ford Senior Vice President and Controller Peter Daniel, Ford Vice President and Treasurer Neil Schloss, and Ford Motor Credit Company Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer K.R. Kent will host a presentation for fixed income analysts and investors.  Investors may access this presentation using the same dial-in information as above, with the passcode being a verbal response of "Ford Fixed Income."
A listen-only webcast and supporting presentation materials for these calls will be available on the Internet at .  Investors may also access replays for one week following the presentations by visiting , or by dialing 888-286-8010 (or 1-617-801-6888 from outside the United States).  The passcode for replays of the earnings call is 29481628; the passcode for replays of the fixed income call is 55865600.  All times referenced above are in Eastern Time.
www.shareholder.ford.com
www.shareholder.ford.com
Please note that Exhibit 99 to this Form 8-K discusses revenue and pre-tax profits excluding special items for Ford's Automotive sector and the primary operating segments and business units within the Automotive sector.  The most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles are revenue and pre-tax profits including special items.  We believe that revenue and pre-tax profits excluding special items are useful measures to provide investors, because they exclude those items that we do not consider to be indicative of earnings from ongoing operating activities.  As a result, revenue and pre-tax profits excluding special items provide investors with more relevant measures of the results generated by our operations.
.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
N
EWS
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
FORD MAKES SOLID PROGRESS ON PLAN -- $100 MILLION NET INCOME IN FIRST QUARTER 2008 PRELIMINARY RESULTS
+
 
DEARBORN, Mich., April 24, 2008  Ford Motor Company [NYSE: F] today reported net income of $100 million, or 5 cents per share, for the first quarter of 2008.  This compares with a net loss of $282 million, or 15 cents per share, in the first quarter of 2007.
 
 
 
 
Fords first quarter pre-tax operating profit from continuing operations, excluding special items, was $736 million, up $669 million from a year ago.  On an after-tax basis, Fords first quarter operating profit from continuing operations, excluding special items, was $525 million, or 20 cents per share, compared with a loss of $172 million, or 9 cents per share, in the same period a year ago.
Fords first quarter revenue, excluding special items, was $39.4 billion, down from $43 billion a year ago.  Adjusted to exclude Jaguar Land Rover and Aston Martin from 2007 results, revenue would have been up slightly, with favorable exchange about offset by lower volume and net pricing.
Special items reduced pre-tax results by $416 million, or 15 cents per share, in the first quarter. These primarily reflected charges associated with personnel actions, dealer reduction actions and the restructuring of our investment in Ballard.
Automotive gross cash, which includes cash and cash equivalents, net marketable securities and loaned securities, was $28.7 billion at March 31, 2008, a decrease of $5.9 billion from 2007 year-end levels.  The decrease was consistent with our plan and primarily reflects implementation of the initial part of our VEBA agreement with the UAW.
 The results of this quarter are encouraging, particularly our outstanding performance in Europe and South America, said Ford President and CEO Alan Mulally. In the past several years, we have substantially restructured these businesses.  We believe this is an indication that our efforts to leverage Fords global assets across the world will bear fruit.  Going forward, we remain committed to our key business objectives, including our goal of reaching North America and overall Automotive profitability in 2009 despite the challenging economic conditions.
 
 
2
 
 
FIRST QUARTER HIGHLIGHTS:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR
For the first quarter of 2008, Fords worldwide Automotive sector reported a pre-tax profit of $669 million, compared with a pre-tax loss of $226 million during the same period a year ago.  The improvement was more than explained by favorable cost performance of $1.7 billion in the quarter, partially offset by unfavorable changes in volume and mix ($700 million), and currency exchange ($200 million).  The cost performance included favorable net product costs, manufacturing costs, spending-related costs and expenses for warranty and retiree health care.  
 
Worldwide Automotive revenue for the first quarter of 2008 was $35 billion, down from $38.6 billion a year ago.  Total company vehicle wholesales in the first quarter were 1,531,000, compared with 1,650,000 units a year ago, down because of the exclusion of Jaguar Land Rover and Aston Martin volume in 2008 and lower wholesales in other regions.
 
3
 
For the first quarter, North America Automotive operations reported a pre-tax loss of $45 million, compared with a loss of $613 million a year ago.  The improvement reflected cost reductions of $1.2 billion, including lower structural and product costs.  These improvements were partly offset by unfavorable volume and mix, and net pricing.  First quarter revenue was $17.1 billion, down from $18.5 billion a year ago.
North America:
For the first quarter, Fords South America operations posted a pre-tax profit of $257 million, up from $113 million a year ago.  The improvement reflected higher net pricing and volume and mix, partially offset by increased costs, which included higher commodity costs.  First quarter revenue increased to $1.8 billion, up from $1.3 billion a year ago.
South America:
For the first quarter, Ford Europe pre-tax profits were $739 million, up from $219 million a year ago.  The improvement was primarily explained by favorable cost performance and net pricing, partially offset by unfavorable changes in currency.  First quarter revenue was $10.2 billion, an improvement from $8.6 billion a year ago.
Ford Europe:
For the first quarter, Volvo reported a pre-tax loss of $151 million, compared with a profit of $94 million a year ago.  The decline was mainly due to unfavorable volume and mix, and changes in currency exchange rates, partially offset by cost reductions.  First quarter revenue was $4.2 billion, compared with $4.6 billion a year ago.
Volvo:
For the first quarter, Asia Pacific Africa reported a pre-tax profit of $1 million, compared with a pre-tax loss of $26 million a year ago.  The improvement primarily reflected favorable cost performance and higher profits in China, partially offset by unfavorable exchange and product mix, primarily in Australia.  First quarter revenue was $1.7 billion, compared with $1.8 billion in 2006.
Asia Pacific Africa:
Ford earned $49 million from its investment in Mazda and associated operations in the first quarter, compared with $21 million a year ago.
Mazda:
Other Automotive, which consists of interest and financing-related costs, accounted for a first quarter pre-tax loss of $181 million. This included net interest expense of $472 million and favorable fair market value adjustments of $291 million, primarily related to the impact of changes in exchange rates on intercompany loans.
Other Automotive:
 
4
 
FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR
For the first quarter, the Financial Services sector earned a pre-tax profit of $67 million, compared with a pre-tax profit of $293 million a year ago.
 
Ford Motor Credit Company:
Ford Motor Credit Company reported
net income of $24 million in the first quarter of 2008, down $169 million from earnings of $193 million a year earlier.
 
On a pre-tax basis, Ford Motor Credit earned $36 million in the first quarter, compared with $293 million
a year ago
. The decrease in
earnings primarily reflected higher provision for credit losses, higher depreciation expense for leased vehicles
,
and higher net losses related to market valuation adjustments from derivatives.
 
These were offset partially by lower expenses primarily relat
ed to the non
-
recurrence of costs associated with Ford
Motor
Credit's North American business restructuring initiative and higher financing margin.
 
2008 OUTLOOK
The remainder of 2008 will be a challenge but we are cautiously optimistic despite the external challenges, Mulally said.  Our plan is working. Our initial quality is now among the best in the business, the restructuring in North America is taking hold and we will continue to take actions to stay on our plan
.
 
Our product pipeline is full.  We
look forward to launching the new Ford Flex, Ford F-150 and the Lincoln MKS in North America, and the new Ford K
uga
and Ford Fiesta in Europe, with the Fiesta coming soon thereafter to China and other markets around the world.
 
5
 
Fords 2008 planning assumptions regarding the industry, operating metrics and profit outlook are as follows:
 
CONFERENCE CALL DETAILS
 
Ford Motor Company [NYSE:F] will release first quarter 2008 financial results at 7 a.m. EDT, Thursday, April 24. The following briefings will be held after the announcement:
At 9 a.m. EDT, Alan Mulally, president and chief executive officer, and Don Leclair, executive vice president and chief financial officer, will host a conference call for news media and the investment community to discuss first quarter results.
At 11 a.m. EDT, Peter Daniel, Ford senior vice president and controller, Neil Schloss, Ford vice president and treasurer, and K.R. Kent, Ford Motor Credit Company vice chairman and chief financial officer, will host a conference call for fixed income analysts and investors.
The presentations (listen-only) and supporting materials will be available on the Internet at .  Representatives of the news media and the investment community participating by teleconference will have the opportunity to ask questions following the presentations.
www.shareholder.ford.com
 
6
 
 
 
 
Ford Motor Company, a global automotive industry leader based in Dearborn, Mich., manufactures or distributes automobiles in 200 markets across six continents.  With about 244,000 employees and about 90 plants worldwide, the companys core and affiliated automotive brands include Ford, Lincoln, Mercury, Volvo and Mazda, and until completion of their sale, Jaguar Land Rover.  The company provides financial services through Ford Motor Credit Company.  For more information regarding Fords products, please visit www.ford.com.
 
 
7
 
Safe Harbor
/
Risk Factors
Statements included or incorporated by reference herein may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Forward-looking statements are based on expectations, forecasts and assumptions by our management and involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated, including, without limitation:
We cannot be certain that any expectation, forecast or assumption made by management in preparing forward-looking statements will prove accurate, or that any projection will be realized.  It is to be expected that there may be differences between projected and actual results.  Our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of their initial issuance, and we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.  For additional discussion of these risks, see "Item 1A. Risk Factors" in our 2007 Form 10-K Report.
 
8
 
FIRST QUARTER 2008 INCOME /
 
(LOSS)
COMPARED WITH 2007
*
  Special items detailed in following table.
 
9
 
T
OTAL COMPANY
FIRST QUAR
TE
R 2008 SPECIAL ITEMS
 
AUTOMOTIVE GROSS CASH RECONCILIATION TO GAAP
 


