FILE:F/F-8K-20080411152557.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
ITEM 1.01.  Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM 2.03.  Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM 3.02.  Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities
Settlement Agreement
On April 7, 2008, Ford Motor Company ("Ford"), the International Union, United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Workers of America (the "UAW") and the class representatives of former UAW-represented Ford employees (the "Class") in , Civil Action No. 07-14845 (E.D. Mich. filed Nov. 9, 2007) filed with the court a Settlement Agreement dated March 28, 2008 (the "Settlement Agreement").  If approved by the Court, the Settlement Agreement will effectuate the transactions contemplated by the November 3, 2007 Memorandum of Understanding  Post Retirement Medical Care (the "MOU") between Ford and the UAW, which was ratified on November 14, 2007, in conjunction with a new national collective bargaining agreement governing the wages, hours and terms and conditions of employment for UAW-represented employees of Ford (the "National Agreement").  For a more specific description of the terms of the MOU, see Ford's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 15, 2007.  A copy of the Settlement Agreement is attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibit 10.1, and the following description of the Settlement Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Settlement Agreement.
Int'l Union, UAW, et al. v. Ford Motor Company
The Settlement Agreement provides that on the later of December 31, 2009, final court approval of the Settlement Agreement, and Ford's completion of discussions with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") regarding satisfactory accounting treatment, a new retiree health care plan (the "New Plan"), to be funded by a new Voluntary Employee Beneficiary Association trust (the "New VEBA"), will be permanently responsible for providing retiree health care benefits to covered UAW employees.  Ford will fund the New VEBA through a number of sources, including funds that are currently in existing voluntary employee beneficiary association trusts, Ford-issued convertible and term notes, and cash on hand.  The parties to the Settlement Agreement have acknowledged that Ford's obligations to pay into the New VEBA are fixed and capped as provided in the Settlement Agreement and that Ford is not responsible for, and does not provide a guarantee of:  (1) the payment for future benefits to plan participants, (2) the asset returns of the funds in the New VEBA, or (3) the sufficiency of assets in the New VEBA to fully pay the obligations of the New VEBA or the New Plan.
In addition, effectiveness of the Settlement Agreement is conditioned upon each of the following:  (1) issuance of a class certification order by the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan (the "Court") that defines the class in the same manner as Class is defined in the Settlement Agreement; (2)  Court approval of the Settlement Agreement in a form acceptable to Ford, the UAW and the Class; (3) successful completion of discussions between Ford and the SEC regarding satisfactory accounting treatment.  The Settlement Agreement may be terminated by any party upon thirty (30) days notice if, among other reasons, satisfactory class certification or Court approval has been received and such certification or Court approval is subsequently overturned on appeal.  Ford may immediately terminate the Settlement Agreement if, after discussions with the SEC, Ford does not believe that the accounting treatment for the New VEBA and the New Plan is satisfactory.
 
- 2 -
 
Convertible Note
On April 9, 2008, pursuant to the Settlement Agreement, Ford issued $3,334,000,000 principal amount of its 5.75% Senior Convertible Notes Due 2013 (the "Convertible Note") to Ford  UAW Holdings LLC, a Delaware limited liability company of which Ford is the sole member ("Ford  UAW Holdings").  The Convertible Note was issued to Ford  UAW Holdings in an unregistered transaction in accordance with an exemption under Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.  The form of the Convertible Note is attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibit 10.2, and the following description of the Convertible Note is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Convertible Note.
Ford  UAW Holdings will hold the Convertible Note until it is transferred to the New VEBA in accordance with the terms of the Settlement Agreement.  Interest on the Convertible Note is payable semiannually.  In accordance with the Settlement Agreement, Ford  UAW Holdings will transfer any interest it receives on the Convertible Note to a temporary asset account maintained by Ford or Ford  UAW Holdings (the "TAA").  The funds in the TAA will be transferred to the New VEBA in accordance with the terms of the Settlement Agreement.
The Convertible Note was issued pursuant to an Indenture dated as of January 30, 2002 (the "Indenture"), as supplemented by the Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of January 1, 2008 (the "Second Supplemental Indenture"), each being between Ford and The Bank of New York, as successor trustee to JPMorgan Chase Bank.  The form of Indenture was filed as Exhibit 4.1 to Ford's Registration Statement No. 333-75214 filed with the SEC; the Second Supplemental Indenture is attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibit 10.3.  The following descriptions of the Indenture and the Second Supplemental Indenture are qualified in their entirety by reference to the Indenture and the Second Supplemental Indenture, respectively.  The Convertible Note matures on January 1, 2013 and will constitute a part of Ford's senior debt and will rank equally with all of Ford's other unsecured and unsubordinated debt.  Ford may redeem the Convertible Note, in whole or in part, at any time after January 1, 2011 in cash at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount to be redeemed plus (1) accrued and unpaid interest and (2) an additional redemption adjustment amount under certain circumstances.
The Convertible Note will be initially convertible, subject to certain conditions, into shares of Ford Common Stock ($.01 par value per share) at a conversion rate of 108.6956 shares of Ford Common Stock per $1,000 principal amount of the Convertible Note, representing an initial effective conversion price of $9.20 per share.  The conversion rate is subject to adjustment upon certain circumstances.  The Ford Common Stock received upon conversion (the "Converted Stock") may not be sold or otherwise transferred except under one of the following circumstances: (1) upon Ford providing notice that it is redeeming the Convertible Note, (2) within three months before the maturity date, or (3) in any calendar quarter, the closing market price of Ford Common Stock is greater than $11.04 for at least 20 trading days in the last 30 consecutive trading days of the preceding calendar quarter.
Security Holder and Registration Rights Agreement.
In conjunction with the issuance of the Convertible Note and in accordance with the Settlement Agreement, Ford has agreed to enter into a Security Holder and Registration Rights Agreement with Ford  UAW Holdings in the form attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibit 10.4.  The following description of the Security Holder and Registration Rights Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Security Holder and Registration Rights Agreement.
 
- 3 -
Under the Security Holder and Registration Rights Agreement, the holder of the Convertible Note or Converted Stock ("Registrable Securities") may (i) cause Ford to register the Registrable Securities for a public offering no more than once per year, (ii) participate in public offerings of securities by Ford and (iii) privately place the Registrable Securities, in each case subject to certain conditions and subject to volume limitations of 100 million shares per quarter and 200 million shares per year of Convertible Stock or a principal amount of the Convertible Note equivalent thereto, unless such restrictions are waived by Ford in accordance with the Settlement Agreement.  In addition, the holder of the Convertible Note may not sell (1) a block of Converted Stock that would be more than 2% of the outstanding shares of Ford Common Stock to a single buyer, or (2) any Converted Stock to a transferee if, after giving effect to the sale, the sale would result in the transferee owning more than 5% of the outstanding shares of Ford Common Stock that has the intention to, or reserves the right to, exert Control or influence over Ford.  The trustee of the New VEBA will vote Converted Stock held in the New VEBA in the same proportion as the votes cast by all other stockholders in a given election.  The holder of the Convertible Note or the Converted Stock may sell to a tender offeror only if the tender offer has been recommended by an independent committee of the Ford Board of Directors.
 
 
Second Lien Term Note
On April 9, 2008, Ford issued its 9.50% Guaranteed Secured Note Due January 1, 2018 in the principal amount of $3,000,000,000 to Ford  UAW Holdings (the "Second Lien Term Note") pursuant to the Settlement Agreement and a Note Purchase Agreement dated as of April 7, 2008 by and among Ford, Ford - UAW Holdings and the Subsidiary Guarantors named therein.  The form of the Second Lien Term Note and the Note Purchase Agreement are attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibit 10.5 and 10.6, respectively, and the following description of the Second Lien Term Note and/or Note Purchase Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Second Lien Term Note and the Note Purchase Agreement.
Ford  UAW Holdings will hold the Second Lien Term Note until it is transferred to the New VEBA in accordance with the terms of the Settlement Agreement.  Interest on the Second Lien Term Note is payable semiannually.  In accordance with the Settlement Agreement, Ford  UAW Holdings will transfer any interest it receives on the Second Lien Term Note to the TAA.  Fifty percent of the principal amount of the Second Lien Term Note is payable on each of January 1, 2017 and January 1, 2018.  The Second Lien Term Note is pre-payable by Ford at par value at any time without penalty.  The Second Lien Term Note will be transferable, in whole or in part, at any time after such note has been transferred to the New VEBA, subject to available exemption from the registration requirements under the federal securities laws.  No registration rights have been granted with respect to the Second Lien Term Note.  Ford has designated the Second Lien Term Note as Second Priority Additional Debt in accordance with and subject to the terms of the Credit Agreement dated as of December 15, 2006, among Ford, the Lenders parties thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent (the "Credit Agreement"), and the Loan Documents (as defined in the Credit Agreement).  Accordingly, payment of the principal of and interest and any premium on the Second Lien Term Note is (1) secured on a second lien basis with the Collateral pledged by Ford and its Subsidiary Guarantors to the Lenders under the Credit Agreement and Loan Documents, and (2) guaranteed by the Subsidiary Guarantors under the Credit Agreement.  Holders of the Second Lien Term Note are subject to, among other things, the intercreditor provisions of the Collateral Trust Agreement relating to the Credit Agreement.
 
- 4 -
 
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
- 5 -
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
- 6 -

 
This settlement agreement (which, together with the Exhibits hereto, is referred to as the ), dated March 28, 2008, is between Ford Motor Company (), by and through its attorneys, and the International Union, United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America (), by and through its attorneys, and the Class Representatives, on behalf of the Class, by and through Class Counsel, in (1) the class action of Civil Action No. 07-14845 (E.D. Mich. filed Nov. 9, 2007) (), and/or (2) the class action of , Civil Action No. 05-74730, (E.D. Mich. July 13, 2006), , 497 F.3d 615 (6th Cir. 2007)().  This Settlement Agreement shall cover and has application to:
Settlement Agreement
Ford
UAW
Intl Union, UAW, et al. v. Ford Motor Company,
Hardwick II
Intl Union, UAW, et al. v. Ford Motor Company
affd
 
Hardwick I
 
 
 
With regard to Ford, the UAW and the Class, this Settlement Agreement: (i) resolves and settles all claims that arise in connection with Hardwick II; (ii) resolves and settles all claims, motions and other issues pertaining to or remaining in Hardwick I; (iii) amends, supersedes or otherwise supplants the settlement agreement, dated February 13, 2006, approved in Hardwick I (Hardwick I Settlement Agreement); and (iv) provides the basis upon which the judgment entered July 13, 2006 in Hardwick I shall be satisfied, superseded or amended as necessary to give full force and effect to the terms of this Settlement Agreement.  This Settlement Agreement also resolves and settles any and all claims for Ford contributions to the Existing External VEBA, and provides for the termination of the Existing External VEBA and the transfer of all assets and liabilities of the Existing External VEBA to the New VEBA.  However, except as otherwise specifically set forth herein, nothing in this Settlement Agreement is intended to alter the eligibility provisions of the Ford Retiree Health Plan or to provide Ford contributions or benefits to individuals who are not otherwise entitled to such under the Ford Retiree Health Plan.
 
This Settlement Agreement is subject to approval by the Court and the parties shall request that the Court incorporate the entirety of this Settlement Agreement in the Approval Order.  In the event of an inconsistency between this Settlement Agreement and any prior agreements or documents, including the Memorandum of Understanding Post-Retirement Medical Care dated November 3, 2007 (), this Settlement Agreement shall control.  In the event of an inconsistency between the body of this Settlement Agreement and the Exhibits hereto, this Settlement Agreement shall control, unless explicitly stated otherwise in this Settlement Agreement.
MOU
 
 
1
 
 
This Settlement Agreement recognizes and approves on the basis set forth herein: (i) the amendment of the Ford Retiree Health Plan to terminate coverage for and exclude from coverage the Class and the Covered Group; (ii) the transfer of the assets of the Existing Internal VEBA to the New VEBA; (iii) the termination of participation by the Class and the Covered Group under the Existing Internal VEBA; (iv) the termination of the Existing External VEBA in conjunction with the establishment of the New Plan, and the transfer to the New VEBA of all assets and liabilities of the Existing External VEBA; (v) that all claims for Retiree Medical Benefits incurred after the Implementation Date by the Class and the Covered Group, including but not limited to COBRA continuation coverage where such election is or had been made on or after retirement and any coverage provided on a self-paid basis in retirement, shall be solely the responsibility and liability of the New Plan and the New VEBA; (vi) the Committees designation under the New Plan and New VEBA as named fiduciary and administrator of the New Plan; (vii) that the New Plan shall replace the Ford Retiree Health Plan regarding the provision of Retiree Medical Benefits to the Class and the Covered Group; (viii) that the New VEBA shall receive certain payments as described herein from the Existing Internal VEBA, the Existing External VEBA and Ford; (ix) that Fords obligation to pay into the New VEBA is fixed and capped as described herein; and (x) that the New VEBA shall serve as the exclusive funding mechanism for the New Plan.
 
 
.  The term Adjustment Event is defined in Section 13.A of this Settlement Agreement.
Adjustment Event
 
.  The term Admissions shall mean any statement, whether written or oral, any act or conduct, or any failure to act, that could be used (whether pursuant to Rules 801(d)(2) or 804(b)(3) of the Federal Rules of Evidence, a similar rule or standard under other applicable law, the doctrines of waiver or estoppel, other rule, law, doctrine or practice, or otherwise) as evidence in a proceeding of proof of agreement with another partys position or proof of adoption of, or acquiescence to, a position that is contrary to the interest of the party making such statement, taking such action, or failing to act.
Admissions
 
.  The term Affiliate shall mean, with respect to any specified person, any other person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, such specified person.
Affiliate
 
.  The term Alternative Note is defined in Section 12.E of this Settlement Agreement.
Alternative Note
 
.  The term Appeal Completion Date shall mean the date on which any appeals from, or other challenges to, the Approval Order have been exhausted or the time periods for filing such appeal(s) or challenge(s) have expired; provided, that the Appeal Completion Date shall be deemed to have occurred only if, at such time, the Approval Order has not been disapproved or modified as a result of any appeal(s) from or other challenge(s) to the Approval Order.
Appeal Completion Date
 
 
2
 
.  The terms Approval Order or Judgment shall mean an order obtained from the Court approving and incorporating this Settlement Agreement in all respects as set forth in Section 28 of this Settlement Agreement.  In the event that the Court enters separate orders certifying the Class and approving this Settlement Agreement, the terms Approval Order or Judgment shall apply to both orders collectively.
Approval Order or Judgment
 
.  The term Base Amount shall mean the payment(s) to be made by Ford that are specified in Sections 7.D(iv) and 8.C of this Settlement Agreement.
Base Amount
 
.  The term Benefits shall have the meaning given to such term in the Trust Agreement.
Benefits
 
.  The term Board of Directors shall mean the Board of Directors of Ford or any committee established by the Board of Directors.
Board of Directors
 
.  The term Class or Class Members shall mean all persons who are:
Class or Class Members
 
(i)          Ford-UAW Represented Employees who, as of November 19, 2007, were retired from Ford with eligibility for Retiree Medical Benefits under the Ford Retiree Health Plan, and their eligible spouses, surviving spouses and dependents;
 
(ii)         surviving spouses and dependents of any Ford-UAW Represented Employees who attained seniority and died on or prior to November 19, 2007 under circumstances where such employees surviving spouse and/or dependents are eligible to receive Retiree Medical Benefits from Ford and/or under the Ford Retiree Health Plan;
 
(iii)        former Ford-UAW Represented Employees or UAW-represented employees who, as of November 19, 2007, were retired from any previously sold, closed, divested or spun-off Ford business unit with eligibility to receive Retiree Medical Benefits from Ford and/or the Ford Retiree Health Plan by virtue of any agreement(s) between Ford and the UAW, and their eligible spouses, surviving spouses, and dependents; and
 
(iv)        surviving spouses and dependents of any former Ford-UAW Represented Employee or UAW-represented employee of a previously sold, closed, divested or spun-off Ford business unit, who attained seniority and died on or prior to November 19, 2007 under circumstances where such employees surviving spouse and/or dependents are eligible to receive Retiree Medical Benefits from Ford and/or the Ford Retiree Health Plan.
 
.  The term Class Certification Order shall mean the final order entered by the Court as described in Section 28.A of this Settlement Agreement.
Class Certification Order
 
.  The term Class Counsel shall mean the law firm of Stember, Feinstein, Doyle & Payne, LLC, or its successor.
Class Counsel
 
.  The term Class Representatives shall mean Bobby Hardwick, Walter Berry, Arlen Banks, Fay Barkley, Yvonne Hicks, Raymond J. Mitchell, and Bruce Carrier.
Class Representatives
 
 
3
 
.  The term Code shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
 
.  The term COLA shall mean Cost of Living Allowance.
COLA
 
.  The term Committee shall mean the governing body set forth in Section 4.A of this Settlement Agreement that acts on behalf of the EBA and serves as the named fiduciary and administrator of the New Plan, as those terms are defined in ERISA and that is so described in the Trust Agreement.
Committee
 
.  The term Consolidated Net Tangible Automotive Assets shall mean the sum of (i) the aggregate amount of Fords automotive assets (less applicable reserves and other properly deductible items) after deducting therefrom (x) all current liabilities and (y) all goodwill, trade names, trademarks, patents, unamortized debt discount and expense and other like intangibles, plus (ii) Fords equity in the net assets of its financial services Subsidiaries after deducting therefrom all goodwill, trade names, trademarks, patents, unamortized debt discount and expense and other like intangibles, in each case as set forth in the most recent financial statements of Ford and its consolidated Subsidiaries which have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.
Consolidated Net Tangible Automotive Assets
 
.  The term Convertible Note shall mean the $3.334 billion aggregate principal amount of 5.75% Convertible Notes Due January 1, 2013 issued under that Indenture dated as of January 30, 2002 between Ford and The Bank of New York, as Trustee, and the Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of January 1, 2008, between Ford and The Bank of New York, as Trustee, including all supplemental indentures thereto, substantially in the form attached as to this Settlement Agreement.
Convertible Note
Exhibit B
 
.  The term Court shall mean the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan.
Court
 
.  The term Covered Group shall mean:
Covered Group
 
(i)          all Ford Active Employees who had attained seniority as of November 19, 2007, and who retire after November 19, 2007 under the Ford-UAW National Agreements, or any other agreement(s) between Ford and the UAW, and who upon retirement are eligible for Retiree Medical Benefits under the Ford Retiree Health Plan utilizing the eligibility provisions applicable to UAW represented employees or the New Plan, as applicable, and their eligible spouses, surviving spouses and dependents;
 
(ii)         all former Ford-UAW Represented Employees and all UAW-represented hourly  employees who, as of November 19, 2007, remained employed in a previously sold, closed, divested, or spun-off Ford business unit, and upon retirement are eligible for Retiree Medical Benefits from Ford and/or the Ford Retiree Health Plan or the New Plan by virtue of any other agreement(s) between Ford and the UAW, and their eligible spouses, surviving spouses and dependents; and
 
(iii)        all eligible surviving spouses and dependents of a Ford Active Employee, or of a former Ford-UAW Represented Employee or UAW-represented employee identified in (ii) above, who attained seniority on or prior to November 19, 2007 and die after November 19, 2007 but prior to retirement under circumstances where such employees surviving spouse and/or dependents are eligible for Retiree Medical Benefits from Ford and/or the Ford Retiree Health Plan or the New Plan.
 
 
4
 
.  The term Debt is defined in Section 19.B of this Settlement Agreement.
Debt
 
.  The term Determination Materials is defined in Section 13.B of this Settlement Agreement.
Determination Materials
 
.  The term Dispute Party is defined in Section 26.B of this Settlement Agreement.
Dispute Party
 
.  The term DOL shall mean the United States Department of Labor.
DOL
 
.  The term Employees Beneficiary Association or EBA shall mean the employee organization within the meaning of section 3(4) of ERISA that is organized for the purpose of establishing and maintaining the New Plan, with a membership consisting of the individuals who are members of the Class and the Covered Group, and on behalf of which the Committee acts.
Employees Beneficiary Association or EBA
 
.  The term ERISA shall mean the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
ERISA
 
.  The term Existing External VEBA shall mean the defined contributionVoluntary Employees Beneficiary Association trust established pursuant to the Hardwick I Settlement Agreement.
Existing External VEBA
 
.  The term Existing Internal VEBA shall mean the subaccount of the Ford-UAW Benefits Trust that reimburses Ford for retiree healthcare expenses and that is funded and maintained by Ford.
Existing Internal VEBA
 
.  The term Fairness Hearing is defined in Section 27 of this Settlement Agreement.
Fairness Hearing
 
.  The term Final Effective Date shall mean the later of the Initial Effective Date or the date on which Ford has completed, on a basis reasonably satisfactory to Ford, its discussions with the staff of the SEC regarding the accounting treatment with respect to the New Plan and the New VEBA as set forth in Section 21 of this Settlement Agreement.
Final Effective Date
 
.  The term Ford is defined in the first paragraph of this Settlement Agreement.
Ford
 
.  The term Ford Active Employees shall mean those hourly employees of Ford who, as of November 19, 2007 or any date thereafter, are covered by the 2007 Ford-UAW National Agreement or are covered by any subsequent Ford-UAW National Agreement.  For purposes of this definition, active employee shall include hourly employees on vacation, layoff, protected status, medical or other leave of absence, and any other employees who have not broken seniority as of November 19, 2007.
Ford Active Employees
 
 
5
 
.  The term Ford Retiree Health Plan shall mean the Hospital-Surgical-Medical-Drug-Dental-Vision Program (included in Volume II of the Agreements dated September 15, 2003 between Ford and the UAW), as amended by the Hardwick I Settlement Agreement.
Ford Retiree Health Plan
 
.  The term Ford Separate Retiree Account shall have the meaning given to such term in the Trust Agreement.
Ford Separate Retiree Account
 
.  The term Ford-UAW National Agreements shall mean the agreement(s) negotiated on a multi-facility basis and entered into between Ford and the UAW covering Ford employees represented by the UAW.  The current Ford-UAW National Agreement is dated November 14, 2007 and took effect as of November 19, 2007.
Ford-UAW National Agreements
 
.  The term Ford-UAW Represented Employees shall mean those individuals who were represented by the UAW in their hourly employment with Ford.
Ford-UAW Represented Employees
 
.  The term Hardwick I is defined in the first paragraph of this Settlement Agreement.
Hardwick I
 
.  The term Hardwick II is defined in the first paragraph of this Settlement Agreement.
Hardwick II
 
.  The term Hardwick I Settlement Agreement shall mean the Settlement Agreement, dated February 13, 2006, between Ford and the plaintiffs in Hardwick I, as approved by the Court in Hardwick I.
Hardwick I Settlement Agreement
 
.  The term Implementation Date shall mean the latest of the Final Effective Date, December 31, 2009 or the Appeal Completion Date.
Implementation Date
 
.  The term Indemnification Liabilities is defined in Section 23 of this Settlement Agreement.
Indemnification Liabilities
 
.  The term Indemnified Party is defined in Section 23 of this Settlement Agreement.
Indemnified Party
 
.  The term Indemnity Expenses is defined in Section 23 of this Settlement Agreement.
Indemnity Expenses
 
.  The term Independent Attestation shall mean an agreed-upon procedures engagement performed for Ford, the UAW and the Committee by a nationally recognized independent registered public accounting firm selected by Ford and conducted in accordance with the attestation standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.  The agreed-upon procedures shall be mutually agreed among the accounting firm, Ford and the Committee in connection with any such engagement.
Independent Attestation
 
.  The term Independent Audit shall mean an audit of the consolidated financial statements of Ford performed in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board by the independent registered public accounting firm that has been designated by Ford.
Independent Audit
 
 
6
 
.  The term Initial Accounting Period shall mean the period before the later of the date that (a) Ford determines that its obligations, if any, with respect to the New Plan made available to the Class and Covered Group are subject to settlement accounting as contemplated by paragraphs 90-95 of FASB Statement No. 106, as amended, or its functional equivalent; or (b) Ford is no longer obligated to make any further payments or deposits to the New VEBA.
Initial Accounting Period
 
.  The term Initial Effective Date shall mean the date on which the Court enters the Approval Order.
Initial Effective Date
 
.  The term Interest shall mean an interest rate of 9 percent (9%) per annum (computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months and the number of days elapsed in any partial month), credited and compounded annually, unless otherwise specified in this Settlement Agreement.
Interest
 
.  The term Limited Liability Company or the LLC shall mean Ford-UAW Holdings LLC, a Delaware limited liability company created by Ford under Section 7.B of this Settlement Agreement for the purpose of holding the Convertible Note, the Term Note, and, if determined by Ford in its sole discretion, the TAA.
Limited Liability Company
 
.  The term Manufacturing Subsidiary shall mean any Subsidiary of Ford which owns or leases a Principal Domestic Manufacturing Property.
Manufacturing Subsidiary
 
.  The term Mitigation shall have the same meaning as in the Hardwick I Settlement Agreement.
Mitigation
 
.  The term Mortgage shall mean any mortgage, pledge, lien, security interest, conditional sale or other title retention agreement or other similar encumbrance.
Mortgage
 
.  The term National Institute for Health Care Reform or Institute is defined in Section 31 of this Settlement Agreement.
National Institute for Health Care Reform or Institute
 
.  The term New Plan shall mean the new retiree welfare benefit plan that is the subject of this Settlement Agreement, and that is funded in part by the Ford Separate Retiree Account, which New Plan shall provide Retiree Medical Benefits to the Class and Covered Group.
New Plan
 
.  The term New VEBA shall mean a new trust fund to be established as described in Section 4 of this Settlement Agreement.
New VEBA
 
.  The term Notice Order is defined in Section 27 of this Settlement Agreement.
Notice Order
 
.  The term Pension Plan shall mean the Ford-UAW Retirement Plan.
Pension Plan
 
 
7
 
.  The term Principal Domestic Manufacturing Property shall mean any plant in the United States owned or leased by Ford or any of its Subsidiaries, the gross book value (without deduction of any depreciation reserves) of which on the date as of which the determination is being made exceeds 0.5% of the Consolidated Net Tangible Automotive Assets and more than 75% of the total production measured by value (as determined by any two of the following:  the Chairman of the Board of Directors, its President, any Executive Vice President of Ford, any Group Vice President of Ford, any Vice President of Ford, its Treasurer and its Controller) of which in the last fiscal year prior to said date (or such lesser period prior thereto as the plant shall have been in operation) consisted of one or more of the following: cars or trucks or related parts and accessories or materials for any of the foregoing.  In the case of a plant not yet in operation or of a plant newly converted to the production of a different item or items, the total production of such plant and the composition of such production for purposes of this definition shall be deemed to be Fords best estimate (determined as aforesaid) of what the actual total production of such plant and the composition of such production will be in the 12 months following the date as of which the determination is being made.
Principal Domestic Manufacturing Property
 
.  The term Retiree Medical Benefits shall mean all post retirement medical benefits, including but not limited to hospital surgical medical, prescription drug, vision, dental, hearing aid and the Special Benefit related to Medicare Part B premium.
Retiree Medical Benefits
 
.  The term SEC shall mean the Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
 
.  The term Settlement Actions is defined in Section 29.A of this Settlement Agreement.
Settlement Actions
 
.  The term Special Benefit shall mean the $76.20 Special Age 65 Benefit related to Medicare Part B premium.
Special Benefit
 
.  The term State shall mean any state of the United States.
State
 
.  The term Stock Contribution Obligation shall mean any and all obligations Ford may have to the Existing External VEBA under Section 13.C of the Hardwick I Settlement Agreement relating to cash contributions based on an increase in the value of Ford common stock.
Stock Contribution Obligation
 
.  The term Subsidiary shall mean any corporation or other entity of which at least a majority of the outstanding stock or other beneficial interests having by the terms thereof ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the board of directors or other governing body of such corporation or other entity (irrespective of whether or not at the time stock or other beneficial interests of any other class or classes of such corporation or other entity shall have or might have voting power by reason of the happening of any contingency) is at the time owned by Ford, or by one or more Subsidiaries, or by Ford and one or more Subsidiaries.
Subsidiary
 
.  The term Temporary Asset Account or TAA shall mean the temporary account controlled at all times by Ford that is established by Ford or a wholly-owned Subsidiary of Ford under Section 7.A of this Settlement Agreement for the purpose of holding certain assets as described in this Settlement Agreement.
Temporary Asset Account
 
 
8
 
.  The term Term Note shall mean the $3.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 9.50% Second Lien Term Notes Due January 1, 2018 issued pursuant to the Note Purchase Agreement, dated April 7, 2008, by and among Ford and the LLC, substantially in the form attached as to this Settlement Agreement.
Term Note
Exhibit C
 
.  The term Trust Agreement shall mean the New VEBA trust agreement the form of which is set forth in to this Settlement Agreement.
Trust Agreement
Exhibit A
 
.  The term UAW Releasees shall mean the UAW, the Class Representatives, the Class, Class Counsel, the Covered Group and anyone claiming on behalf of, through or under them by way of subrogation or otherwise.
UAW Releasees
 
 
The New Plan and the New VEBA shall, as of the day following the Implementation Date, be the employee welfare benefit plan and trust that are exclusively responsible for all Retiree Medical Benefits for which Ford, the Ford Retiree Health Plan and any other Ford entity or benefit plan formerly would have been responsible with regard to the Class and the Covered Group.  All assets paid or transferred by Ford to the New VEBA (including any investment returns thereon) shall be credited to a Ford Separate Retiree Account and must be used for the exclusive purpose of providing Retiree Medical Benefits to the participants of the New Plan and their eligible beneficiaries, and to defray the reasonable expenses of administering the New Plan, as set forth in the Trust Agreement.  All obligations of Ford, the Ford Retiree Health Plan and any other Ford entity or benefit plan for Retiree Medical Benefits for the Class and the Covered Group arising from any agreement(s) written, oral, or otherwise between Ford and the UAW shall be forever and irrevocably terminated as of the end of the Implementation Date.  Fords only obligations to the New Plan and the New VEBA are those set forth in this Settlement Agreement.   Eligibility rules for the New Plan shall be the same as those currently included in the Ford Retiree Health Plan, and may not be expanded.
 
 
Throughout the 2007 negotiations between Ford and the UAW over the terms of a new National Agreement, the parties engaged in extended discussions concerning the impact of rising health care costs on Fords financial condition and its ability to compete in the North American marketplace.  Ford provided the UAW with extensive information as to its financial condition and health care expenditures.  On behalf of the UAW, a team of investment bankers, actuaries, and legal experts have reviewed Fords information, and provided the UAW with an assessment as to the state of Fords financial condition and analyzed the benefits of entering into the MOU.  Ford officials also met with representatives of the UAW and its team of experts and answered questions and provided further detail, as requested.  The UAW and its team of experts have now analyzed, , the funds necessary to provide ongoing Retiree Medical Benefits through the New Plan and the New VEBA.
inter
alia
 
During these discussions, Ford asserted, as it had in Hardwick I, that it has the right to unilaterally modify and/or terminate the health care benefits applicable to its hourly retirees and that, without this Settlement Agreement, Ford would exercise its right to terminate the Hardwick I Settlement Agreement according to its terms as well as exercise its right to unilaterally modify retiree health care benefits.  Although the UAW acknowledges Fords right to terminate the Hardwick I Settlement Agreement, it continues to assert that the retiree health care benefits are vested and that Ford does not have the right to unilaterally modify or terminate retiree health care benefits.
 
 
9
 
On behalf of the Class, Class Counsel has conducted a substantial factual investigation and legal inquiry prior to entering into this Settlement Agreement.  Similar to what was done by the UAW, this included, , review of Fords financial information, review and analysis of  collective bargaining agreements, relevant health care plan documents, and actuarial information, and review of material on Fords health care costs.  Class Counsel retained experts to review the financial and actuarial information and, with the assistance of these experts, conducted an extensive review of Fords projected financial condition, Fords ability to provide Retiree Medical Benefits over the long term, and the proposed New VEBAs ability to provide Retiree Medical Benefits over the long term with the funds available from the proposed Settlement Agreement.  Class Counsel has also thoroughly investigated the law applicable to the Class Members claims and has done so considering the collective bargaining agreements and health care plan documents affecting these claims.  Class Counsel examined the benefits and certainty to be obtained under the proposed Settlement Agreement for an aging Class, and has considered the costs, risks and delays associated with the prosecution of complex and time-consuming litigation, and the likely appeals of any rulings in favor of any party. Class Counsel has considered the fact that, under the proposed Settlement Agreement, the benefits of Hardwick I through 2011 are preserved. Class Counsel believes that, in consideration of all the circumstances, the proposed settlement embodied in this Settlement Agreement is fair, reasonable, adequate and in the best interest of all members of the Class.  Class Counsel participated in the negotiation of this Settlement Agreement.
inter alia
 
 
A.           .  The Approval Order shall provide that the New Plan and New VEBA, both subject to ERISA, shall be administered by the Committee.  The Committee shall be in place within 120 days after the Initial Effective Date.  The Committee shall consist of 11 members, 5 of whom are to be appointed by the UAW, and 6 of whom are to be independent members.  The Approval Order shall designate the initial independent members who are set forth in Attachment 1 of to this Settlement Agreement.  In the event that any member of the Committee resigns, dies, becomes incapacitated or otherwise ceases to be a member, a replacement member shall be appointed as described in the Trust Agreement.
Committee
Exhibit A
 
B.            . The EBA, acting through the Committee, shall establish and maintain the New Plan for the purpose of providing Retiree Medical Benefits to the Class and the  Covered Group as set forth in this Settlement Agreement.  The Committee shall begin administering the New Plan so as to be able to provide Retiree Medical Benefits for the Class and the Covered Group with respect to claims incurred after the Implementation Date.  The Committee shall implement the New VEBA at the earlier of (i) the expiration of 180 days following the Initial Effective Date or (ii) the day following the Implementation Date.  The New Plan shall be ERISA-covered and the New VEBA shall meet the requirements of Section 501(c)(9) of the Code.  All payments to the New Plan and the New VEBA made or caused to be made by Ford under the Settlement Agreement are payments pursuant to section 302(c)(2) of the Labor Management Relations Act, 1947, as amended ("LMRA"), 29 U.S.C. 186(c)(2).
Establish and Maintain
 
 
10
 
C.             .  No member of the Committee shall be a current or former officer, director or employee of Ford or any member of the Ford controlled group; provided however, that a retiree who was represented by the UAW in his/her employment with Ford or an employee of Ford who is on leave from Ford and who is represented by the UAW is not precluded by this provision from serving on the Committee.  No member of the Committee shall be authorized to act for Ford or shall be an agent or representative of Ford for any purpose.  Furthermore, Ford shall not be a fiduciary with respect to the New Plan or New VEBA, and shall have no rights, obligations or responsibilities with respect to the New Plan or New VEBA other than as specifically set forth in this Settlement Agreement.
Limitation on Ford Role
 
 
A.            .  With respect to claims incurred on or prior to the Implementation Date, Retiree Medical Benefits for the Class and the Covered Group shall continue to be provided by the Ford Retiree Health Plan and the Existing External VEBA at the same level and scope as provided for by the Ford Retiree Health Plan and the Existing External VEBA under the Hardwick I Settlement Agreement, including Mitigation from the Existing External VEBA (for those entitled to it).  The payment by Ford and/or the Ford Retiree Health Plan of Retiree Medical Benefits for claims incurred on or prior to the Implementation Date shall not reduce Fords payment obligations to the New Plan and the New VEBA under this Settlement Agreement.
On or Prior to Implementation Date
 
B.             .  With respect to claims incurred after the Implementation Date, the New Plan and the New VEBA shall have sole responsibility for and be the exclusive source of funds to provide Retiree Medical Benefits for the Class and the Covered Group, including but not limited to COBRA continuation coverage where such election is made after retirement.  Neither Ford, the Ford Retiree Health Plan, the Existing Internal VEBA, nor any other Ford person, entity, or benefit plan shall have any responsibility or liability for Retiree Medical Benefits for individuals in the Class or in the Covered Group for claims incurred after the Implementation Date.  Fords sole obligations to the New Plan and the New VEBA are those set forth in this Settlement Agreement.
After Implementation Date
 
 From the day following the Implementation Date until December 31, 2011, the Retiree Medical Benefits under the New Plan and the New VEBA shall continue to be provided at the levels described in the Hardwick I Settlement Agreement and as set forth in the Trust Agreement.
 
On and after January 1, 2012, the Committee shall have such authority to establish Benefits as described in the Trust Agreement, including raising or lowering benefits.  However, in no event may the Committee amend the New Plan or New VEBA to provide benefits other than Retiree Medical Benefits until the expiration of the Initial Accounting Period.  The ability of the New Plan and the New VEBA to pay for Retiree Medical Benefits will depend on numerous factors, many of which are outside of the control of UAW, the Committee, the New Plan and the New VEBA, including, without limitation, the investment returns, actuarial experience and other factors.
 
 
11
 
 
C.             .  The Approval Order shall provide that all obligations of Ford and all provisions of the Ford Retiree Health Plan in any way related to Retiree Medical Benefits for the Class and/or the Covered Group, and all provisions of applicable collective bargaining agreements, contracts, letters and understandings in any way related to Retiree Medical Benefits for the Class and the Covered Group are forever and irrevocably terminated as of the end of the Implementation Date, or otherwise amended so as to be consistent with this Settlement Agreement and the fundamental understanding that all Ford obligations regarding Retiree Medical Benefits for the Class and the Covered Group are terminated as set forth in this Settlement Agreement.  Summary Plan Descriptions of the Ford Retiree Health Plan are amended to reflect the termination of Ford and Ford Retiree Health Plan responsibilities for Retiree Medical Benefits for the Class and the Covered Group for claims incurred after the Implementation Date as set forth herein.
Amendment of Ford Retiree Health Plan and Reimbursement of Ford
 
 The New Plan and New VEBA shall reimburse Ford or the Ford Retiree Health Plan, as applicable, for any Retiree Medical Benefits advanced or provided by Ford or the Ford Retiree Health Plan with regard to claims incurred by members of the Class and the Covered Group after the Implementation Date, including, but not limited to, situations where a retirement is made retroactive and the medical claims were incurred after the Implementation Date or where Ford is notified of an intent by a member of the Class and the Covered Group to retire under circumstances where there is insufficient time to transfer responsibility for Retiree Medical Benefits to the New Plan and Ford or the Ford Retiree Health Plan provides interim coverage for Retiree Medical Benefits.  To the extent such reimbursement may not be permitted by law, the UAW, the Class, Class Counsel and the Committee shall fully cooperate with Ford in securing any legal or regulatory approvals that are necessary to permit such reimbursement.
 
 
A.            . The Existing Internal VEBA balance as of December 31, 2007 shall be determined using the December 31, 2007 valuation from the independent trustee of the Existing Internal VEBA,which shall be based on the existing trust agreement for the Existing Internal VEBA.  In accordance with this methodology, the December 31, 2007 valuation of the Existing Internal VEBA for purposes of this Section 6.A is $3,739,851,094.10.  The determination of the Existing Internal VEBA balance as of December 31, 2007 shall be final and binding on Ford, the UAW, the Committee, the Class Representatives, the Class, the Covered Group and Class Counsel for purposes of this Settlement Agreement upon an Independent Audit.
Existing Internal VEBA Balance
 
 
B.             .  Ford shall continue to oversee the investment of the assets in the Existing Internal VEBA and all such assets shall be invested in a manner consistent with the long-term nature of the health care liabilities under the investment policy (as may be amended from time to time by Ford who shall notify the UAW and the Committee about intended amendments in a timely manner) applicable to the Existing Internal VEBA.  Ford does not guarantee or warrant the investment returns on the assets in the Existing Internal VEBA.
Investment of Assets
 
 
12
 
C.             .  No amounts shall be withdrawn by Ford from the Existing Internal VEBA, including its investment returns, from January 1, 2008 until transfer to the New VEBA under Section 12 or termination of this Settlement Agreement under Section 30 of this Settlement Agreement.  If the Implementation Date occurs, Ford shall cause all assets in the Existing Internal VEBA, including investment returns thereon, net of trust expenses (this shall only include expenses to the extent permitted by ERISA) not previously taken into account in determining investment returns, to be transferred from the Existing Internal VEBA to the New VEBA as set forth in Sections 8.A and 12.B of this Settlement Agreement.  Ford and the Committee shall enter into discussions in advance of such transfer with regard to the method of allocating, transferring and/or otherwise handling any illiquid or otherwise non-transferable investments in the Existing Internal VEBA so as to preserve as much as possible the economic value of such investments and minimize any losses due to the liquidation of assets.  Such discussions shall be completed by November 30, 2009.  The determinations made by Ford as a product of these discussions with the Committee regarding the way to transfer illiquid or otherwise non-transferable investments in the Existing Internal VEBA shall be final and binding on Ford, the UAW, the Committee, the Class Representatives, the Class, the Covered Group and Class Counsel.
Disposition of Assets
 
 
A.            .  Prior to the date of this Settlement Agreement, Ford established the TAA.  Subject to termination of this Settlement Agreement, the sole purpose of the TAA is to serve as tangible evidence of the availability of assets equal to the sum of certain amounts that Ford agrees to pay to the New VEBA as provided in this Settlement Agreement (for clarification, the reference to the TAA does not include the amounts in the Existing External VEBA or the Existing Internal VEBA).  Neither the TAA nor the assets therein shall be used for any purposes other than as set forth in this Settlement Agreement.  Ford shall, or shall cause the LLC to, keep true and correct books and records regarding the assets held in the TAA as well as all amounts credited to and debited against the TAA, including investment returns.
Creation of TAA
 
B.             .  Prior to the date of this Settlement Agreement, Ford created Ford-UAW Holdings LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, to hold the Convertible Note, the Term Note and, if so determined by Ford in its sole discretion, the TAA, and to receive interest or other income from such assets to the extent that the LLC holds the TAA.  Interest on the Convertible Note and the Term Note shall be deposited in the TAA in accordance with Section 7.D of this Settlement Agreement.  Subject to termination of this Settlement Agreement, the sole purpose of the LLC is to hold the Convertible Note, the Term Note and, if so determined by Ford in its sole discretion, the TAA, thereby serving as tangible evidence of the availability of assets equal to the Convertible Note, the Term Note and the TAA, to the extent applicable, that Ford agrees to pay and/or transfer on or after the Implementation Date to the New VEBA as provided in this Settlement Agreement.  The LLC shall engage in no activities other than (i) holding the Convertible Note, the Term Note and, if applicable, the assets in the TAA; (ii) investing the assets in the TAA, if applicable, as provided in this Settlement Agreement, and (iii) to the extent Ford does not transfer its interests in the LLC to the New VEBA in accordance with this Settlement Agreement, transferring the Convertible Note, the Term Note and, if held by the LLC, the assets in the TAA to the New VEBA.  The LLC shall not exercise any conversion rights under the Convertible Note and shall not agree to any amendments to the Convertible Note or the Term Note.  Promptly after creation of the LLC, Ford shall cause the LLC to execute and deliver an instrument of accession in which it agrees to be bound by and to perform the provisions of Sections 7, 8 and 12 of this Settlement Agreement to the extent applicable to the LLC.
Creation of the LLC
 
 
13
 
C.            .  Ford shall make the following deposits in the LLC during the time period from January 1, 2008 to termination of the TAA:
Ford Deposits in the LLC
 
 
 
D.            .  Ford shall make the following deposits in the TAA during the time period from January 1, 2008 to termination of the TAA:
Ford Deposits in TAA
 
 
 
 
 
14
 
 
E.             .  Control of the TAA and the LLC and all the assets therein shall be solely within Fords discretion; provided, however, that Ford shall not, and shall not permit the LLC (or its successors) to, pledge, mortgage, or grant a lien on any assets held in the TAA or owned by the LLC (or its successors).  Ford shall oversee the investment of the assets in the TAA.  To the extent practicable given the differences in time horizon and other investment parameters, Ford shall invest the assets in the TAA in a manner that is consistent with the investment policy of the Existing Internal VEBA.  However, Ford does not guarantee or warrant the investment returns on the assets in the TAA and/or the LLC.
Control of TAA and the LLC
 
F.             .  If the Implementation Date does not occur because (i) the Approval Order has not been entered as described in Section 28.B, (ii) the Approval Order has been disapproved or modified, or (iii) Ford has not completed, on a basis reasonably satisfactory to Ford, its discussions with the SEC regarding the accounting treatment with respect to the New Plan and New VEBA as set forth in Section 21 of this Settlement Agreement, or (iv) this Settlement Agreement has been terminated for any other reason as provided in Section 30 of this Settlement Agreement, the TAA shall be terminated and the LLC shall be liquidated in an orderly fashion.  In addition, if the Implementation Date has not occurred by December 31, 2011, the TAA shall be terminated and the LLC shall be liquidated in an orderly fashion; provided however, that this date may be extended by agreement between Ford, the UAW and Class Counsel.  Upon termination of the TAA for any reason, Ford and the LLC may use the assets of the TAA and the LLC for any corporate purpose.
Termination of TAA; Liquidation of LLC
 
G.             .  Ford agrees to periodically inform and hold discussions with the UAW, Class Counsel and the Committee about the investment results of and decisions regarding the assets in the TAA and the Existing Internal VEBA.  Ford shall, with respect to the performance of its duties in managing the Existing Internal VEBA and the TAA, participate in the following meetings and provide the following reports to the UAW and the Committee: (i) quarterly reports of TAA and Existing Internal VEBA asset class and benchmark performance for relevant time periods; and (ii) semi-annual or quarterly meetings with UAW and/or Committee representatives to report on TAA and Existing Internal VEBA returns and analysis of performance, and to review significant activities affecting investments.  Any input from the UAW, Class Counsel and/or the Committee shall not be a basis of Fords investment decisions within the meaning of the DOL regulations set forth at 29 CFR 2510-3.21(c).
Communications Regarding Investment Results
 
 
 
15
 
 
 Fords financial obligation and payments to the New Plan and New VEBA are fixed and capped by the terms of this Settlement Agreement.  The timing of all payments to the New VEBA shall be as set forth in Section 12 of this Settlement Agreement; it being agreed and acknowledged that the New Plan, funded by the New VEBA, shall provide Retiree Medical Benefits for the Class and the Covered Group after the Implementation Date, and that all obligations of Ford and the Ford Retiree Health Plan for Retiree Medical Benefits for the Class and the Covered Group shall be forever and irrevocably terminated as of the end of the Implementation Date, as set forth in this Settlement Agreement.  All assets shall be transferred or paid by Ford free and clear of any liens, claims or other encumbrances.  Pursuant to this Settlement Agreement, Ford shall have the following, and only the following, obligations to the New VEBA and the New Plan, and all payments and transfers in this Section 8 and in Sections 9 through 11 of this Settlement Agreement shall be credited to the Ford Separate Retiree Account of the New VEBA:
 
A.             .  Provide for the transfer to the New VEBA of the assets (or, with regard to any illiquid or otherwise non-transferable investments, equivalent alternatives resulting from discussions between Ford and the Committee pursuant to Section 6.B of this Settlement Agreement) of the Existing Internal VEBA, net of Existing Internal VEBA trust expenses (this shall only include expenses to the extent permitted by ERISA), as described in Section 12.B of this Settlement Agreement.
Existing Internal VEBA
 
B.             .  Transfer to the New VEBA the assets in the TAA (representing the amounts Ford deposited in the TAA pursuant to Section 7.D of this Settlement Agreement and the investment returns thereon), net of expenses (but limited to those expenses that could be charged under ERISA if the TAA were a plan subject to ERISA) or, at Fords option, transfer either (i) cash in lieu of some or all of these assets in the TAA or (ii) all interests in the LLC as described in Section 12.E of this Settlement Agreement.
TAA Equivalency
 
C.             .  Subject to Fords option to buy out the Base Amount at any time, pay an annual Base Amount to the New VEBA as set forth in to this Settlement Agreement, other than any such amount previously deposited in the TAA pursuant to Section 7.D(iv) of this Settlement Agreement.  In addition, Ford may at any time request to make a partial pre-payment of a Buyout Amount of the Base Amount on terms that provide economically equivalent present value to the New VEBA, provided that such partial pre-payment shall be made only if mutually agreed between Ford and the Committee.  The Committee shall be entitled to accept or reject any such request in its sole discretion.
Base Amount
Exhibit D
 
D.             .  Cause the LLC to transfer to the New VEBA the Convertible Note issued to the LLC or, at Fords option, issue to the New VEBA an Alternative Note, as described in Section 12.E of this Settlement Agreement.  In the event that the transfer of the Convertible Note (or the issuance of an Alternative Note) to the New VEBA occurs subsequent to a Record Date and on or prior to the Interest Payment Date (as such terms are defined in the Convertible Note), Ford shall cause the LLC to transfer to the New VEBA immediately upon receipt the interest payment that the LLC will receive that corresponds to such Interest Payment Date.  Ford shall pay any and all documentary, stamp or similar issue or transfer taxes that may be payable in requesting the issue or transfer of the Convertible Note or an Alternative Note to the New VEBA.
Convertible Note
 
 
16
 
E.             .  Cause the LLC to transfer to the New VEBA the Term Note issued to the LLC or, at Fords option, issue to the New VEBA an Alternative Note, as described in Section 12.E of this Settlement Agreement.  In the event that the transfer of the Term Note to the New VEBA occurs subsequent to a Record Date and on or prior to the Interest Payment Date (as such terms are defined in the Term Note), Ford shall cause the LLC to transfer to the New VEBA immediately upon receipt the interest payment that the LLC will receive that corresponds to such Interest Payment Date.  Ford shall pay any and all documentary, stamp or similar issue or transfer taxes that may be payable in requesting the issue or transfer of the Term Note to the New VEBA.
Term Note
 
F.             .  Within five days of the Final Effective Date, Ford shall transfer to the Existing External VEBA $33 million in satisfaction of the Stock Contribution Obligation, as described in Section 13.C of the Hardwick I Settlement Agreement.  The Approval Order shall provide that such payment shall be made to the New VEBA, rather than the Existing External VEBA, if the payment is payable after the Implementation Date.
Cash Contribution Based on Increase in Stock Value
 
The payments described in this Section 8 are subject to reduction for the amounts set forth in Section 12.A of this Settlement Agreement.  To the extent that any assets described in this Section 8 are held by the LLC, Ford may satisfy the payment and transfer obligations in this Section 8 and in Sections 9 through 11 by transferring all interests in the LLC to the New VEBA.
 
 
A.            .  Ford shall continue to deposit into the Existing External VEBA the wage and COLA deferrals set forth in Section 13.B of the Hardwick I Settlement Agreement (including the COLA deferrals and non-payment of the September 18, 2006 general increase to the hourly wage rate) until the termination of the Existing External VEBA.  As a result of Ford agreeing to deposit the amount described in Section 7.D(i) into the TAA, the Approval Order shall provide that as of the day following the Implementation Date (i) Ford shall no longer be required to make deposits of the wage and COLA deferrals from the Hardwick I Settlement Agreement into the Existing External VEBA, (ii) the amounts described in Section 7.D(i) paid by Ford pursuant to this Settlement Agreement shall be in full satisfaction of any and all of Fords obligations under Section 13.B of the Hardwick I Settlement Agreement and the provisions of the judgment in Hardwick I regarding wage and COLA deferrals, (iii) Ford shall have no further obligations as to such payments or contributions to the Existing External VEBA, and (iv) the Hardwick I wage and COLA deferrals shall inure thereafter solely to the benefit of Ford and continue in perpetuity increasing at $0.02 per hour per quarter as described in Section 13.B of the Hardwick I Settlement Agreement.
Impact on Hardwick I Wage and COLA Deferral
 
 If the Implementation Date occurs after January 1, 2010, then the balance in the TAA as of the Implementation Date (excluding the Convertible Note and the Term Note) to be deposited in the New VEBA as provided in Section 8.B of this Settlement Agreement shall be reduced by the value of the wage and COLA deferral contributions paid or payable to the Existing External VEBA under the Hardwick I Settlement Agreement (assuming a 9% rate of return on such contributions) from January 1, 2010 to the Implementation Date.
 
 
17
 
 
B.             .  In negotiating the MOU and 2007 Ford-UAW National Agreement, Ford and UAW agreed that there shall be no general increase to the hourly wage rate for Ford Active Employees in 2009 regardless of whether or not the Implementation Date occurs.  As a result, Ford agreed to pre-fund this wage increase to the TAA as referred to in Section 7.D(i) of this Settlement Agreement.  If the Implementation Date does not occur, the wage increase will not be reinstated.
2009 Wage Deferral
 
C.             .  In negotiating the MOU and 2007 Ford-UAW National Agreement, Ford and UAW also agreed that, effective with the December 1, 2007 COLA adjustment and ending September 1, 2011, up to four cents ($0.04) per hour per quarter shall be diverted from COLA otherwise calculated for Ford Active Employees.  These deferred amounts shall inure solely to the benefit of Ford and shall not be reinstated after September 1, 2011 but shall continue to be deferred in perpetuity.  As a result, Ford agreed to pre-fund these future COLA adjustments to the TAA referred to in Section 7.D(i) of this Settlement Agreement.  If the Implementation Date does not occur, the cumulative effect of four cents ($0.04) per hour per quarter of COLA shall be reinstated and Ford and the UAW shall agree on the disposition of such COLA adjustment.  The UAW and Ford acknowledge that these COLA diversions shall not entitle any member of the Covered Group to any payment from, or create any interest on their part in, any assets or amounts held in the TAA.
2007 COLA Diversion
 
 
Fords Third Contribution of $43 million, as required by Section 13.A of the Hardwick I Settlement Agreement, shall be payable by Ford to the Existing External VEBA on January 1, 2009 (or the first business day thereafter).
 
 
 
The initial deposits to the New VEBA shall be made and credited to the Ford Separate Retiree Account, and the Existing External VEBA and TAA shall be terminated, as provided below.
 
A.            .  Within 30 days of the Initial Effective Date or the establishment of the New VEBA, whichever is later, Ford shall cause a transfer of $1 million from the TAA to the New VEBA.   Thereafter, and until the Implementation Date, within 30 days of any request by the Committee, Ford shall cause the transfer of such additional amounts as the Committee shall request, provided that there shall be no more than five such requests prior to the Implementation Date and the aggregate of all such transfers, including the initial payment, shall not exceed $20 million.  Such amounts shall represent an advance to the New VEBA to cover reasonable and necessary preparatory expenses incurred by the New Plan or the New VEBA in anticipation of the transition of responsibility for Retiree Medical Benefits as of the day following the Implementation Date as set forth in Section 5 of this Settlement Agreement.  These advance payments shall not increase or add to the amounts Ford has agreed to pay under this Settlement Agreement
Deposit No. 1
.
 
 
18
 
B.             .  Within 10 business days after the Implementation Date, Ford shall direct the trustee of the Existing Internal VEBA to transfer to the New VEBA all assets in the Existing Internal VEBA or cash in an amount equal to the Existing Internal VEBA balance on the date of the transfer.  The Approval Order shall provide that, upon such transfer, the Existing Internal VEBA shall be deemed to be amended to terminate participation and coverage regarding Retiree Medical Benefits for the Class and the Covered Group, effective as of the day following the Implementation Date.  Accruals for trust expenses (this shall only include expenses to the extent permitted by ERISA) through the date of transfer shall be made and retained within the Existing Internal VEBA to pay such expenses.  After payment of these trust expenses is completed, a reconciliation of the accruals and the actual expenses (this shall only include expenses to the extent permitted by ERISA) shall be performed.  Ford agrees to cause the payment to the New VEBA by the Existing Internal VEBA of any overaccruals for such expenses.  Similarly, in the event of an underaccrual the New VEBA shall return to the Existing Internal VEBA the amount of the underaccrual of expenses.
Deposit No. 2
 
C.             .  The Approval Order shall direct the committee of the Existing External VEBA and the trustees of the Existing External VEBA to transfer all assets and liabilities of the Existing External VEBA into the New VEBA and terminate the Existing External VEBA within 15 days after the Implementation Date.  This transfer of assets and liabilities shall include, but not be limited to, the transfer of all rights and obligations granted to or imposed on the Existing External VEBA under Section 14.C of the Hardwick I Settlement Agreement and Ford agrees that, on the day following the Implementation Date, the New VEBA shall be substituted for the Existing External VEBA for such purposes.  The Approval Order shall provide that the Existing External VEBA shall be terminated after this payment is made.
Deposit No. 3
 
D.             .  The balance in the TAA as of the date of transfer, after giving effect to Deposit No. 1, or at Fords discretion, cash in lieu of some or all of the assets in the TAA as of the date of transfer, shall be paid to the New VEBA before the 20 business day after the Implementation Date.  If Ford elects to pay cash in lieu of some or all of the investments in the TAA, the cash Ford will pay shall include an amount equal to accrued and unpaid interest and dividends on such investments net of reasonable liquidation costs.  Accruals for expenses (but limited to those expenses that could be charged to the TAA under ERISA if the TAA were a plan subject to ERISA) through the date of transfer shall be made and an amount equal to the TAAs share of such accruals shall be retained within the TAA to pay such expenses.  After payment of these expenses is completed, a reconciliation of the accruals and the actual expenses (but limited to those expenses that could be charged to the TAA under ERISA if the TAA were a plan subject to ERISA) shall be performed.  Ford agrees to cause the payment to the New VEBA by the TAA of any overaccruals for the TAAs share of such expenses.  Similarly, in the event of an underaccrual the New VEBA will return to the TAA, or to Ford, as applicable, the amount of the underaccrual for the TAAs share of the expenses.
Deposit No. 4
th
 
E.             .  Ford shall cause the LLC to transfer the Convertible Note and Term Note to the New VEBA after Deposit No. 4 has been made, within 25 business days after the Implementation Date if no legal or regulatory approvals are required, or within 10 business days of securing final legal or regulatory approval.  In lieu of causing the LLC to transfer either or both Notes, Ford, in its sole discretion, may elect to transfer to the New VEBA a note or notes containing economic terms and conditions identical to those of the Convertible Note or the Term Note (each such note, an ), including accrued interest.  The transfer of the Convertible Note, the Term Note or any Alternative Note shall only occur as permitted by law.  Ford and/or the New Plan, as applicable, shall apply for any necessary legal or regulatory approvals, including but not limited to the prohibited transaction exemptions described in Section 22 of this Settlement Agreement and any required federal or state bank regulatory approvals.  The UAW, the Class and Class Counsel shall support and cooperate with any such requests for legal or regulatory approvals.  If Ford and the New VEBA cannot timely obtain necessary legal or regulatory approvals, the parties shall meet and discuss appropriate alternatives to the transfer of the Convertible Note or the Term Note that provide equivalent economic value to the New VEBA.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, any transfer of the Convertible Note or an Alternative Note shall be conditioned upon execution and delivery by the New VEBA of a Security Holder and Registration Rights Agreement substantially in the form of to this Settlement Agreement.
Transfer of Convertible Note and Term Note
Alternative Note
Exhibit F
 
 
19
 
 
The parties acknowledge that, upon completion of Fords transfer of the assets in the TAA to the New VEBA as contemplated by this Settlement Agreement, no assets should remain in the TAA and the TAA shall be terminated.  If, however, assets remain in the TAA as the result of Fords exercise of its option to transfer cash in lieu of TAA assets, or deductions permitted under this Settlement Agreement, then Ford may thereafter use or dispose of such assets, including any investment returns thereon, for any corporate purpose.  After Deposit No. 4 has been made and after transfer of the Convertible Note and the Term Note, or any Alternative Note, the LLC shall be terminated.  All assets transferred or contributed to the New VEBA shall be free and clear of any liens, claims or other encumbrances.
 
To the extent that assets to be deposited or transferred to the New VEBA as described in Section 8 or this Section 12 are held by the LLC, Ford may elect in its sole discretion, to satisfy its obligation in this Section 12 by transferring all interests in the LLC to the New VEBA in lieu of causing the LLC to deposit or transfer any such assets.
 
If a deposit or payment or any portion thereof is made by Ford to the TAA or the New VEBA by mistake under any provision of this Settlement Agreement, including, but not limited to Sections 7 through 12 of this Settlement Agreement, (i) as to the TAA, Ford may deduct such amount from the TAA plus earnings thereon from the date of deposit in the TAA up to but excluding the date of deduction, and (ii) as to the New VEBA, the Committee shall, upon written direction of Ford, return such amounts as may be permitted by law to Ford (plus earnings thereon from the date of payment to but excluding the date of return) within 30 days of notification by Ford that such payment was made by mistake.  If a dispute arises with regard to such payment, the dispute will be resolved pursuant to Section 26 of this Settlement Agreement.
 
 
A.            .  Adjustment Event shall mean:
Adjustment Event
 
 
20
 
 
 
 
B.             .
Due Diligence and Adjustment Mechanism
 
 In connection with any Adjustment Event, Ford shall deliver, as soon as practicable, to the Committee (or the UAW prior to establishment of the Committee) information in reasonable detail about the determinations made by Ford with regard to such Adjustment Event and the work papers, underlying calculations and other documents and materials on which such determinations are based, including non-privileged materials from Fords advisors, if any (collectively, the ).
Determination Materials
 
 The Committee shall have 30 days from receipt of the Determination Materials from Ford to submit to Ford a written request for an Independent Attestation of a determination(s) by Ford listed in Section 13.A of this Settlement Agreement.  As a part of this review process, the Committee may ask for additional information regarding the calculations, and the data and information provided by Ford.  Ford shall as promptly as practicable, respond to all reasonable requests from the Committee for such additional information.  However, a request for additional information shall not extend the 30-day review period, unless an extension is reasonably necessary to allow the Committee to review such additional information, but in no event longer than 45 days from receipt of the Determination Materials.
 
 All determinations made by Ford with regard to a determination(s) listed in Section 13.A of this Settlement Agreement shall be final and binding on Ford, the UAW, the Class Representatives, the Class, the Covered Group, Class Counsel, the Committee and the New Plan and New VEBA, unless the Committee timely submits a request for an Independent Attestation.   If the Committee timely submits such a request, Ford shall engage a nationally recognized independent registered public accounting firm to conduct an Independent Attestation regarding a determination(s) by Ford listed in Section 13.A of this Settlement Agreement.  The Independent Attestation shall be final and binding on Ford, the UAW, the Class Representatives, the Class, the Covered Group, Class Counsel, the Committee and the New Plan and New VEBA.
 
 Nothing in the foregoing paragraphs shall prevent the division, deposit, withdrawal or transfer of any assets the valuation of which is not in dispute pending resolution of the disputed amounts.
 
C.             .  All information and data provided by Ford to the UAW and/or the Committee under Section 7.G of this Settlement Agreement and as a part of this due diligence and adjustment process shall be considered confidential.  The UAW and the Committee shall use such information and data solely for the purpose set forth in this Section 13 of the Settlement Agreement.  The UAW and the Committee shall not disclose such information or data to any other person without Fords written consent, provided that the UAW and the Committee may disclose such information and data to their attorneys and professional advisors subject to the agreement of such attorneys and advisors to the confidentiality restrictions set forth herein.
Confidentiality
 
 
21
 
 
 
 The UAW, the Class and the Covered Group may not negotiate any increase of Fords funding or payment obligations set out herein.  The UAW also agrees not to seek to obligate Ford to:  (i) provide any additional payments to the New VEBA other than those specifically required by this Settlement Agreement; (ii) make any other payments for the purpose of providing Retiree Medical Benefits to the Class or the Covered Group; or (iii) provide or assume the cost of Retiree Medical Benefits for the Class or the Covered Group through any other means; provided, that, the UAW may propose that Ford Active Employees be permitted to make contributions to the New VEBA of amounts otherwise payable in profit sharing, COLA, wages and/or signing bonuses, if not prohibited by law.
 
 
 For purposes of determining a Class or Covered Group members status as a Protected Retiree under the terms of the Hardwick I settlement agreement, any pension increase negotiated in the 2007 Ford-UAW National Agreement shall not be included in the determination of pension income.
 
 The New VEBA shall be responsible for all costs to administer the New Plan and the New VEBA commencing on the day following the Implementation Date and continuing thereafter. The New Plan and the Trust Agreement shall be drafted consistent with this requirement.
 
 
Assets paid or transferred to the New VEBA by or at the direction of Ford, including all investment returns thereon, shall be used solely to provide Retiree Medical Benefits to the Class and the Covered Group as defined in this Settlement Agreement and to defray the reasonable expenses of administering the New Plan to provide such benefits as permitted under this Settlement Agreement until expiration of the Initial Accounting Period.  Thereafter, Benefits shall be provided to the Class and the Covered Group as described in the Trust Agreement.  The Trust Agreement shall provide: (i) for the Ford Separate Retiree Account to be credited with the assets deposited or transferred to the New VEBA by Ford, or at Fords direction, under this Settlement Agreement; (ii) that the assets in the Ford Separate Retiree Account may be used only to provide Benefits for such Class and such Covered Group; and (iii) that under no circumstances shall Ford or the Ford Separate Retiree Account be liable or responsible for the obligations of any other employer or for the provision of Retiree Medical Benefits or any other benefits for the employees or retirees of any other employer.
 
Further, the Trust Agreement shall provide that the Committee, on behalf of the New VEBA, shall take all such reasonable action as may be needed to rebut any presumption of control that would limit the New VEBAs ability to own Ford common stock or the Convertible Note or as may be required to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, including but not limited to federal and state banking laws and regulations.
 
 
22
 
Except as prohibited under Section 410(a) of ERISA and to the extent otherwise permitted by law, the New VEBA shall indemnify and hold the Committee, the UAW, Ford, the Ford Retiree Health Plan, and the current or former employees, officers and agents of each of them harmless from and against any liability that they may incur in connection with the New Plan and New VEBA, unless such liability arises from their gross negligence or intentional misconduct, or breach of this Settlement Agreement.  The Committee shall not be required to give any bond or any other security for the faithful performance of its duties under the Trust Agreement, except as such may be required by law.
 
 
With regard to claims incurred after the Implementation Date, the New VEBA shall be entitled to receive any Medicare Part D subsidies and other health care related subsidies regarding benefits actually paid by the New VEBA which may result from future legislative changes, and Ford shall not be entitled to receive any such subsidies related to prescription drug benefits and other health care related benefits provided to the Class and the Covered Group by the New Plan and New VEBA.
 
 
A.           .
General
 
The Committee shall have the right to accelerate some or all of the payment obligations of Ford under this Settlement Agreement (other than the Base Amount payments set forth in Sections 8.C and of this Settlement Agreement) if Ford defaults on any payment obligations under this Settlement Agreement and such default is not cured within 15 business days after the Committee gives Ford notice of such default.  To cure such default, Ford shall pay the amount then in default plus accrued Interest on such amount.  Payments due under the Convertible Note and  Term Note may also be accelerated under this provision only to the extent that the Convertible Note or the Term Note, as applicable, is then held by the New VEBA.
Exhibit D
 
B.           .  Effective as of the Implementation Date and until all payments required of Ford under this Settlement Agreement, other than the Base Amount payments set forth in Sections 8.C and Exhibit D of this Settlement Agreement, have been made, Ford shall not, nor shall it permit any Manufacturing Subsidiary to, incur, issue, assume, guarantee or suffer to exist any notes, bonds, debentures or other similar evidences of indebtedness for money borrowed (notes, bonds, debentures or other similar evidences of indebtedness for money borrowed being hereinafter called Debt), secured by a pledge of, or mortgage or lien on, any Principal Domestic Manufacturing Property of Ford or any Manufacturing Subsidiary, or any shares of stock of or Debt of any Manufacturing Subsidiary (mortgages, pledges and liens being hereinafter called Mortgage or Mortgages), without effectively providing that payment obligations by Ford under this Settlement Agreement (together with, if Ford shall so determine, any other Debt of Ford or such Manufacturing Subsidiary then existing or thereafter created ranking equally with payment obligations of Ford under this Settlement Agreement) shall be secured equally and ratably with (or prior to) such secured Debt, so long as such secured Debt shall be so secured, unless, after giving effect thereto, the aggregate amount of all such secured Debt so secured plus all Attributable Debt of Ford and its Manufacturing Subsidiaries in respect of sale and leaseback transactions (as defined in Section 10.05 of the Indenture dated as of January 30, 2002 between Ford and The Bank of New York, as Trustee, would not exceed 5% of Consolidated Net Tangible Automotive Assets; provided, however, that this Section shall not apply to Debt secured by:
Limitation on Liens
 
 
23
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For purposes of this section, the term Attributable Debt shall mean, as to any particular lease under which any Person (defined for purposes of this Section 19B to include any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, association, joint stock company, trust, unincorporated organization, government or any agency or political subdivision thereof or any other entity) is at the time liable, at any date as of which the amount thereof is to be determined, the total net amount of rent (discounted from the respective due dates thereof at the rate of 9.5% per annum compounded annually) required to be paid by such Person under such lease during the remaining term thereof. The net amount of rent required to be paid under any such lease for any such period shall be the total amount of the rent payable by the lessee with respect to such period, but may exclude amounts required to be paid on account of maintenance and repairs, insurance, taxes, assessments, water rates and similar charges. In the case of any lease which is terminable by the lessee upon the payment of a penalty, such net amount shall also include the amount of such penalty, but no rent shall be considered as required to be paid under such lease subsequent to the first date upon which it may be so terminated.
 
C.             .
Dispute Resolution
The dispute resolution process set forth in Section 26 of this Settlement Agreement shall apply in the event of a dispute over whether Ford has defaulted on any payment obligation under this Settlement Agreement.  In this regard, the time limit applicable to Fords right to cure a default shall be 15 business days after agreement by the parties that Ford has defaulted, or entry by the Court of a final ruling determining that Ford has defaulted on its payment obligations.  Application of the dispute resolution process set forth in Section 26 of this Settlement Agreement does not relieve Ford of the obligation to pay accrued Interest for the period of time that the dispute resolution process is in effect in order to cure a default.
 
 
24
 
 
 
A.            .  Ford shall cooperate with the UAW and the Committee and at the Committees request undertake such reasonable actions as will assist the Committee in the transition of responsibility for administration of the Retiree Medical Benefits by the Committee for the New Plan and the New VEBA.  Such cooperation shall include assisting the Committee in educational efforts and communications with respect to the Class and the Covered Group so that they understand the terms of the New Plan, the New VEBA and the transition, and understand the claims submission process and any other initial administrative changes undertaken by the Committee.  Before and after the Implementation Date, at the Committees request and as permitted by law, Ford shall furnish to the Committee such information and shall provide such cooperation as may be reasonably necessary to permit the Committee to effectively administer the New Plan and the New VEBA, including, without limitation, the retrieval of data in a form and to the extent maintained by Ford regarding age, amounts of pension benefits, service, pension and medical benefit eligibility, marital status, mortality, claims history, births, deaths, dependent status and enrollment information of the Class and the Covered Group.  At the request of the Committee, Ford shall continue to perform the necessary eligibility work for a reasonable period of time, not to exceed 90 days after the Implementation Date in order to allow the Committee to establish and test the eligibility database, and for which Ford shall be entitled to reimbursement for reasonable costs.  Ford shall also assist the Committee in transitioning benefit provider contracts to the New VEBA.  Ford shall also cooperate with the UAW and the Committee and undertake such reasonable actions as will enable the Committee to perform its administrative functions with respect to the New Plan and the New VEBA, including ensuring an orderly transition from Ford administration of Retiree Medical Benefits to the New Plan and the New VEBA.
Cooperation by Ford
 
To the extent permitted by law, Ford shall also allow retiree participants to voluntarily have required contributions withheld from pension benefits and to the extent reasonably practical, credited to the Ford Separate Retiree Account of the New VEBA on a monthly basis.  A retiree participant may elect or withdraw consent for pension withholdings at any time by providing 45 days written notice to the Pension Plan administrator or such shorter period that may be required by law; provided, however, that Ford will not be required to obtain new affirmative consents from existing retiree participants who provided consent pursuant to the Hardwick I Settlement Agreement to the extent that any required contributions may be withheld in accordance with such prior consent.
 
To the extent permitted by law, Ford shall also cooperate with the Committee to make provision for the New VEBA payments of the $76.20 Special Benefit to be incorporated into monthly Ford pension checks for eligible retirees and surviving spouses.  It shall be the responsibility of the Committee and the New VEBA to advise Fords pension paying agent in a timely manner of eligibility changes with regard to the Special Benefit payment.  The timing of the information provided to Fords pension paying agent shall determine the timing for the incorporation into the monthly pension check.  It will be the responsibility of the Committee and the New VEBA to establish a bank account for the funding of the Special Benefit payments, and Fords pension paying agent will be provided with the approval to draw on that account for the payment of the benefit.  The Committee and the New VEBA shall assure that the bank account is adequately funded for any and all such payments.  If adequate funds do not exist for the payments, then Fords pension paying agent shall not make such payments until the required funding is established in the account.  It will be the responsibility of the Committee and the New VEBA to audit the eligibility for, and payment of, the Special Benefit. Additionally, the Committee and the New VEBA shall be responsible for the payment of reasonable costs associated with Fords administration of the payment of this Special Benefit and the pension withholdings, including development of administrative and recordkeeping processes, monthly payment processing, audit and reconciliation functions and the like.
 
 
25
 
Ford shall be financially responsible for reasonable costs associated with the transition of coverage for the Class and the Covered Group to the New Plan and New VEBA. This shall include the cost of educational efforts and communications with respect to retirees, creation of administrative procedures, initial development of record sharing procedures, the testing of computer systems, vendor selection and contracting, and other activities incurred on or before the Implementation Date, including but not limited to costs associated with drafting the Trust Agreement, seeking from the Internal Revenue Service a determination of the tax-exempt status of the New VEBA, plan design and actuarial and other professional work necessary for initiation of the New Plan and New VEBA and the benefits to be provided thereunder.  Ford payments described in this Section shall not reduce its payment obligations under this Settlement Agreement, and if the New VEBA is a multi-employer welfare trust, the costs described in this Section, to the extent not allocable to a specific employer, shall be pro-rated among the participating companies based on the ratio of required funding for each company.  Payment of these costs shall be set forth explicitly in the Approval Order.  Notwithstanding this paragraph, the Dental Benefit Eligibility & Enrollment Plan Sponsor Agreement and the Administrative Services Agreement, each by and between Ford and the Trust Committee of the Independent Health Care Trust for the UAW Retirees of Ford Motor Company, shall remain in full force and effect until otherwise terminated by the parties thereto.
 
B.            .  The UAW and the Committee shall cooperate and shall timely furnish Ford with such information related to the New Plan and New VEBA, in a form and to the extent maintained by the UAW and the Committee, as may be reasonably necessary to permit Ford to comply with requirements of the SEC, including, but not limited to, any disclosures contemplated or agreed to with the staff of the SEC as a result of Fords discussions with the staff pursuant to Section 21 of this Settlement Agreement and any schedules supporting such information, and Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, including but not limited to SFAS 87, SFAS 106, SFAS 132R, SFAS 157, and SFAS 158 (as amended), for disclosure in Ford's financial statements and any filings with the SEC.
Cooperation With Ford
 
 
26
 
 
Throughout the negotiations of the MOU and this Settlement Agreement, Ford has maintained that a necessary element in its decision to enter into the MOU and this Settlement Agreement is securing accounting treatment that is reasonably satisfactory to Ford regarding the transactions contemplated by the MOU and this Settlement Agreement.  In the event that the economic substance of the transaction does not meet the specific requirements for settlement accounting as determined by paragraphs 90-95 of FASB Statement No. 106, as amended, it is expected that the terms of this Settlement Agreement would give rise to substantive plan amendment accounting as of the Final Effective Date.  For purposes of this provision, substantive plan amendment accounting would limit Fords OPEB obligation to the revised, fixed and capped obligations as determined under this Settlement Agreement.  The parties shall cooperate to provide, prior to the Final Effective Date, the Covered Group and all other plan participants of the Ford Retiree Health Plan with reasonably acceptable communications to ensure accounting treatment consistent with this Section 21 with respect to the changes implemented by this Settlement Agreement.  The parties agree that this Settlement Agreement and Final Effective Date are contingent on Ford securing the appropriate accounting treatment regarding Fords obligations to the Class and the Covered Group for Retiree Medical Benefits.  As soon as practicable, Ford shall discuss the accounting for the New Plan and the New VEBA and its obligations to the Class and the Covered Group for Retiree Medical Benefits with the staff of the SEC.  If, as a result of those discussions, Ford believes that the accounting for the transaction may not be a settlement as contemplated by paragraphs 90-95 of FASB Statement No. 106, as amended, or a substantive negative plan amendment reasonably satisfactory to Ford, the parties shall meet in an effort to restructure the transaction to achieve such accounting.  If the parties are unable to reach an agreement on terms that Ford reasonably believes will provide such accounting, this Settlement Agreement shall terminate.  If, but for the restrictions on transfer contained in Sections 2.2(c)(i) and 2.2(c)(ii) of the Security Holder and Registration Rights Agreement, Ford would be able to secure settlement accounting treatment as determined by paragraphs 90-95 of FASB Statement No. 106, as amended, as of the Implementation Date, Ford agrees to waive the restrictions contained in Sections 2.2(c)(i) and 2.2(c)(ii) of the Security Holder and Registration Rights Agreement with respect to Transfers (as defined in the Security Holder and Registration Rights Agreement) of the Convertible Note and/or shares of common stock of Ford underlying such Convertible Note by the LLC or the New VEBA.
 
 
The parties agree that the assets of the TAA and the LLC shall not be plan assets of the New Plan and New VEBA unless and until actual transfer or payment to the New VEBA.  The UAW, Ford, and the Class and Class Counsel acknowledge that the instrument establishing the TAA and communications to the Class regarding the TAA, shall be consistent with the principles set forth in DOL Advisory Opinions 92-02A, 92-24 and 94-31A so as to avoid the assets in the TAA being deemed plan assets within the meaning of ERISA.  If Ford determines that the assets in the TAA and/or the LLC as described in Section 7 of this Settlement Agreement are likely to be deemed plan assets, Ford shall apply for a prohibited transaction exemption from the DOL to permit the acquisition and holding of the employer security in the TAA and/or the LLC.  The UAW, the Class and Class Counsel shall fully cooperate with Ford in securing any such legal or regulatory approvals.
 
 
27
 
If Ford elects to transfer the Convertible Note and the Term Note or any Alternative Note to the New VEBA and such notes are not qualifying employer securities, Fordand the New VEBA timely shall apply for a prohibited transaction exemption from the DOL to permit the New VEBA to acquire and hold such securities.  Similarly, if qualifying employer securities and employer real property would exceed 10 percent of the total assets in the New VEBA immediately after transfer of the Convertible Note and the Term Note  or an Alternative Note for such notes to the New VEBA, then Ford and the New VEBAtimely shall apply for a prohibited transaction exemption to permit the New VEBA to acquire and hold such securities.  The UAW, the Class and Class Counsel shall fully cooperate with Ford and the New VEBA in securing any such legal or regulatory approvals.  If Ford and the New VEBA cannot timely obtain any necessary exemptions, the parties shall meet and discuss an appropriate alternative which provides equivalent economic value to the New VEBA.
 
 
 
 
Subject to approval by the Court as part of the Judgment, Ford hereby agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the UAW, and its current or former officers, directors, employees and expert advisors (each, an ), to the extent permitted by law, from and against any and all losses, claims, damages, obligations, assessments, penalties, judgments, awards, and other liabilities related to any decision, recommendations or other actions taken prior to the date of this Settlement Agreement (collectively, Indemnification Liabilities), and shall fully reimburse any Indemnified Party for any and all reasonable and documented attorney fees and expenses (collectively, ), as and when incurred, of investigating, preparing or defending any claim, action, suit, proceeding or investigation, arising out of or in connection with any Indemnification Liabilities incurred as a result of an Indemnified Partys entering into, or participation in the negotiations for, this Settlement Agreement and the MOU and the transactions contemplated in connection herewith; provided, however, that such indemnity shall not apply to any portion of any such Indemnification Liability or Indemnity Expense that resulted from the gross negligence, illegal or willful misconduct by an Indemnified Party; provided, further, that such indemnity shall not apply to any Indemnification Liabilities to a Ford Active Employee for breach of the duty of fair representation.
Indemnified Party
Indemnity Expenses
 
Nothing in this Section 23 or any provision of this Settlement Agreement shall be construed to provide an indemnity for any member or any actions of the Committee; provided however, that an Indemnified Party who becomes a member of the Committee shall remain entitled to any indemnity to which the Indemnified Party would otherwise be entitled pursuant to this Section 23 for actions taken, or for a failure to take actions, in any capacity other than as a member of the Committee; and provided further, that nothing in this Section 23 or any other provision of this Settlement Agreement shall be construed to provide an indemnity for any Indemnification Liabilities or Indemnity Expenses relating to (i) management of the assets of the New VEBA or (ii) for any action, amendment or omission of the Committee with respect to the provision and administration of Retiree Medical Benefits.
 
If an Indemnified Party receives notice of any action, proceeding or claim as to which the Indemnified Party proposes to demand indemnification hereunder, it shall provide Ford prompt written notice thereof.  Failure by an Indemnified Party to so notify Ford shall relieve Ford from the obligation to indemnify the Indemnified Party hereunder only to the extent that Ford suffers actual prejudice as a result of such failure, but Ford shall not be obligated to provide reimbursement for any Indemnity Expenses incurred for work performed prior to its receipt of written notice of the claim.  If an Indemnified Party is entitled to indemnification hereunder, Ford shall have the right to participate in such proceeding or elect to assume the defense of such action or proceeding at its own expense and through counsel chosen by Ford (such counsel being reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnified Party).  The Indemnified Party shall cooperate in good faith in such defense.  Upon the assumption by Ford of the defense of any such action or proceeding, the Indemnified Party shall have the right to participate in, but not control the defense of, such action and retain its own counsel but the expenses and fees shall be at its expense unless (a) Ford has agreed to pay such Indemnity Expenses, (b) Ford shall have failed to employ counsel reasonably satisfactory to an Indemnified Party in a timely manner, or (c) the Indemnified Party shall have been advised by counsel that there are actual or potential conflicting interests between Ford and the Indemnified Party that require separate representation, and Ford has agreed that such actual or potential conflict exists (such agreement not to be unreasonably withheld); provided, however, that Ford shall not, in connection with any such action or proceeding arising out of the same general allegations, be liable for the reasonable fees and expenses of more than one separate law firm at any time for all Indemnified Parties not having actual or potential conflicts among them, except to the extent that local counsel, in addition to its regular counsel, is required in order to effectively defend against such action or proceeding.  All such fees and expenses shall be invoiced to Ford, with such detail and supporting information as Ford may reasonably require, in such intervals as Ford shall require under its standard billing processes.
 
 
28
 
If the Indemnified Party receives notice from Ford that Ford has elected to assume the defense of the action or proceeding, Ford will not be liable for any attorney fees or other legal expenses subsequently incurred by the Indemnified Party in connection with the matter.
 
Ford shall not be liable for any settlement of any claim against an Indemnified Party made without Fords written consent, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.  Ford shall not, without the prior written consent of an Indemnified Party, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed, settle or compromise any claim, or permit a default or consent to the entry of any judgment, that would create any financial obligation on the part of the Indemnified Party not otherwise within the scope of the indemnified liabilities.
 
The termination of this Settlement Agreement shall not affect the indemnity provided hereunder, which shall remain operative and in full force and effect.   Notwithstanding anything in this Section 23 to the contrary, this Section 23 of the Settlement Agreement shall not be applicable with respect to any of the matters covered by Article VI of the Securityholder and Registration Rights Agreement.
 
 
A.           .  Ford agrees to support the application by the UAW and Class Counsel to the Court for reimbursement by Ford of reasonable attorney and professional fees and expenses based on hours worked and determined in accordance with the current market rates (not to include any upward adjustments such as any lodestar multipliers, risk enhancements, success fee, completion bonus or rate premiums) incurred in connection with the court proceedings to obtain the Approval Order and any appeals therefrom.  Approval of these fee requests shall be included in the Judgment.
Fees and Expenses
 
 
29
 
B.             .  Each party to this Settlement Agreement agrees not to seek any other future fees or expenses from any other party in connection with either Hardwick II or Hardwick I, except that the Class Representatives or any other party prevailing in any action to enforce the terms of this Settlement Agreement may seek such fees and costs as may be allowed by law.
Fees After The Final Effective Date
 
 
A.             In consideration of Fords entry into this Settlement Agreement, and the other obligations of Ford contained herein, the Class Representatives, the Class Counsel and the UAW hereby consent to the entry of the Judgment, which shall be binding upon all Class Members pursuant to Rule 23(b)(2) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.
Consent to Entry of the Judgment.
 
B.               As of the Final Effective Date, each UAW Releasee releases and forever discharges each other UAW Releasee and each other Indemnified Party and shall be forever released and discharged with respect to any and all rights, claims or causes of action that such UAW Releasee had, has or hereafter may have, whether known or unknown, suspected or unsuspected, concealed or hidden, arising out of or based upon or otherwise related to (a) any of the claims arising, or which could have been raised, in connection with either Hardwick I or Hardwick II concerning the provision of Retiree Medical Benefits and the terms of this Settlement Agreement, (b) any claims that this Settlement Agreement, or any document referred to or contemplated herein, is not in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, and (c) any action taken to carry out this Settlement Agreement in accordance with this Settlement Agreement and applicable law.
UAW Releasees.
 
C.              As of the Final Effective Date, the UAW Releasees release and forever discharge Ford, and its officers, directors, employees, agents, subsidiaries, Affiliates, and the Ford Retiree Health Plan and its fiduciaries, with respect to any and all rights, claims or causes of action that any UAW Releasee had, has or hereafter may have, whether known or unknown, suspected or unsuspected, concealed or hidden, arising out of, based upon or otherwise related to (a) any of the claims arising, or which could have been raised, in connection with Hardwick I or Hardwick II concerning the provision of Retiree Medical Benefits and the terms of this Settlement Agreement, (b) any claims that this Settlement Agreement, or any document referred to or contemplated herein, is not in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, and (c) any action taken to carry out this Settlement Agreement  in accordance with this Settlement Agreement and  applicable law.
Ford.
 
D.               As of the Final Effective Date, the UAW Releasees release and forever discharge the Existing External VEBA and the fiduciaries, trustees, and committee that administer the Existing External VEBA, and the Existing Internal VEBA and the fiduciaries, trustees, and committee that administer the Existing Internal VEBA with respect to any and all rights, claims or causes of action that any UAW Releasee had, has or hereafter may have, whether known or unknown, suspected or unsuspected, concealed or hidden, arising out of, based upon or otherwise related to (a) any of the claims arising, or which could have been raised, in connection with Hardwick I or Hardwick II concerning the provision of Retiree Medical Benefits and the terms of this Settlement Agreement, (b) any claims that this Settlement Agreement, of any document referred to or contemplated herein, is not in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, and (c) any action taken by such fiduciaries,  trustee and/or committees to carry out this Settlement Agreement and to transfer assets of the Existing External VEBA and Existing Internal VEBA to the New VEBA in accordance with this Settlement Agreement and applicable law.
Existing Internal VEBA and Existing External VEBA.
 
 
30
 
 
E.               As of the Final Effective Date, Ford releases and forever discharges the Class Representatives and Class Counsel from any and all claims, demands, liabilities, causes of action or other obligations of whatever nature, including attorney fees, whether known or unknown, that arise from their participation or involvement with respect to the filing of the Hardwick II lawsuit or in the negotiations leading to this Settlement Agreement.  This release does not extend to obligations arising from the terms of the Settlement Agreement itself.
Representatives and Class Counsel.
 
F.               Neither the entry into this Settlement Agreement nor the consent to the Judgment is, may be construed as, or may be used as, an Admission by or against Ford or any UAW Releasee of any fault, wrongdoing or liability whatsoever.
No Admission.
 
 
A.            .  Any controversy or dispute arising out of or relating to, or involving the enforcement, implementation, application or interpretation of this Settlement Agreement shall be enforceable only by Ford, the Committee, the UAW, and if prior to the Implementation Date, Class Counsel, and the Approval Order will provide that the Court will retain exclusive jurisdiction to resolve any such disputes.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, any disputes relating solely to eligibility for participation or entitlement to benefits under the New Plan shall be resolved in accordance with the applicable procedures such Plan shall establish, and nothing in this Settlement Agreement precludes Class Members from pursuing appropriate judicial review regarding such disputes; provided however, that no claims incurred after the Implementation Date related to Retiree Medical Benefits may be brought against Ford, any of its affiliates, or the Ford Retiree Health Plan.
Coverage
 
B.             .  Although the Court retains exclusive jurisdiction to resolve disputes arising out of or relating to the enforcement, implementation, application or interpretation of this Settlement Agreement, the parties agree that prior to seeking recourse to the Court, the parties shall attempt to resolve the dispute through the following process:
Attempt at Resolution
 
 
 
31
 
 
 All the time periods in this Section 26 of this Settlement Agreement may be extended by agreement of the parties to the particular dispute.
 
C.             .
Alternate Means of Resolution
 Nothing in this Section shall preclude Ford, the UAW, the Committee, or Class Counsel from agreeing on any other form of alternative dispute resolution or from agreeing to any extensions of the time periods specified in this Section 26.
 
 
The parties shall submit this Settlement Agreement to the Court and jointly work diligently to have this Settlement Agreement approved by the Court as soon as possible either through Hardwick II or Hardwick I as deemed appropriate.  In either event, the parties shall seek the Courts approval of this Settlement Agreement as superseding or satisfying the Hardwick I Settlement Agreement.  The parties shall seek from the Court an order (the ) providing that notice of the hearing on the proposed settlement (the ) shall be given at Fords expense to the Class, as defined herein, by mailing a copy of the notice contemplated in the Notice Order to the Class, and by publishing a notice approved by the Court in the Detroit News/Free Press weekend edition, and a national newspaper such as USA Today.  Until entry of Judgment, copies of this Settlement Agreement shall also be made available for inspection by Class Members at the Court, at the UAW offices in Detroit, Michigan, and at the offices of Class Counsel.
Notice Order
Fairness Hearing
 
 
This Settlement Agreement is conditioned upon the occurrence or resolution of the conditions described in subparagraphs A, B, and C of this Section.  The failure of subparagraphs A and B shall render this Settlement Agreement voidable at the discretion of any party.  The failure of subparagraph C shall render this Settlement Agreement voidable at the sole discretion of Ford.
 
A.            .  A final Class Certification Order must be entered by the Court certifying Hardwick II as a non-opt out class action, or amending and re-certifying the Hardwick I class, such that the Class is defined as stated in Section 1 of this Settlement Agreement.  This condition shall be deemed to have failed upon the Courts issuance of an order denying certification of Hardwick II as a class action or denial of the motion to amend and re-certify the class in Hardwick I to include the Class as defined in this Settlement Agreement, if applicable, or upon issuance of an order certifying Hardwick II as a class action or amending and re-certifying a new class in Hardwick I but whose membership is less inclusive than as described in this Settlement Agreement unless Ford, the UAW and Class Counsel agree in writing to such alternative class description.
Class Certification Order
 
 
32
 
B.             .  A Judgment must be entered by the Court in either Hardwick I or Hardwick II approving this Settlement Agreement in all respects and as to all parties, including Ford, the UAW, and the Class.  The Judgment shall be acceptable in form and substance to Ford, the UAW and Class Counsel.  This condition shall be deemed to have failed upon issuance of an order disapproving this Settlement Agreement, or upon the issuance of an order approving only a portion of this Settlement Agreement but disapproving other portions, unless Ford, the UAW and Class Counsel agree otherwise in writing.  Such Approval Order shall, , contain the conditions set forth in this Settlement Agreement and direct the transfer of all the assets and liabilities of the Existing External VEBA into the New VEBA and the termination of the Existing External VEBA.
Judgment/Approval Order
inter alia
 
C.             .  The discussions between Ford and the SEC regarding accounting treatment shall have been completed in a manner reasonably satisfactory to Ford as set forth in Section 21 of this Settlement Agreement.
Accounting Treatment Satisfactory to Ford
 
 
A.            Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, whether set forth in this Settlement Agreement, the MOU, the Judgment, the Notice Order, any documents filed with the Court in either Hardwick I or Hardwick II, any documents, whether provided in the course of or in any manner whatsoever relating to the 2007 discussions between Ford and UAW with respect to health care benefits or relating to this Settlement Agreement or the MOU, whether distributed, otherwise made available to or obtained by any person or organization, including without limitation, Ford Active Employees, Class Members, or their spouses, surviving spouses or dependents, or to the UAW or Ford in the course of the negotiations that led to entry into this Settlement Agreement, or otherwise:
 
 
 
33
 
 
 
For the purposes of this Section 29, Ford and the UAW refer to Ford Motor Company and the International Union, United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America, respectively, as organizations, as well as any and all of their respective current or former directors, officers, employees, and agents.
 
This Settlement Agreement and anything occurring in connection with reaching this Settlement Agreement are without prejudice to Ford, the UAW and the Class.  The parties may use this Settlement Agreement to assist in securing the Judgment approving the settlement.  It is intended that Ford, the UAW, the Committee, the Class Representatives, the Class, Class Counsel and the Covered Group shall not use this Settlement Agreement, or anything occurring in connection with reaching this Agreement, as evidence against Ford, the UAW, the Class or the Covered Group in any circumstance except where the parties are operating under or enforcing this Settlement Agreement or the Judgment approving this Settlement Agreement.
 
 
This Settlement Agreement will remain in effect unless and until terminated in accordance with this Section 30 and as provided for in Section 28 of this Settlement Agreement.  If this Settlement Agreement is terminated, then the Hardwick I Settlement Agreement and judgment shall remain in full force and effect and the parties shall be restored to their respective positions immediately before execution of this Settlement Agreement except as specifically noted herein.
 
 
34
 
Termination of this Settlement Agreement may occur as follows:
 
A.            If Hardwick II is enjoined or stayed, or withdrawn, dismissed, or otherwise terminated, or if the Judgment is denied in whole or in material part, either Ford, the UAW, or Class Counsel on behalf of the Class Representatives may terminate this Settlement Agreement by 30 days written notice to the other party; provided however, that the Settlement Agreement may not be terminated pursuant to this subparagraph (i) if Hardwick II is stayed, withdrawn, or dismissed by the parties because this Settlement Agreement is approved as a superseding settlement through the Hardwick I litigation.
 
B.            If a Class Certification Order satisfactory to the parties, as described in Section 28.A of this Settlement Agreement, is entered by the Court and subsequently overturned in whole or in part on appeal or otherwise, Ford, the UAW, or Class Counsel, acting on behalf of the Class, may terminate this agreement upon 30 days written notice to the other parties.
 
C.            If an Approval Order satisfactory to the parties, as described in Section 28.B of this Settlement Agreement, is entered by the Court, but overturned in whole or in part on appeal or otherwise, Ford, the UAW, or Class Counsel, acting on behalf of the Class, may terminate this Settlement Agreement upon 30 days written notice to the other parties.
 
D.            If after Fords discussions with the SEC, Ford does not believe the accounting treatment for the New Plan and the New VEBA is reasonably satisfactory to Ford as set forth in Section 21 of this Settlement Agreement, Ford may immediately terminate this Settlement Agreement upon written notice to the other parties.
 
E.             If any court, agency or other tribunal of competent jurisdiction issues a determination that any part of this Settlement Agreement is prohibited or unenforceable, Ford, the UAW, or Class Counsel, acting on behalf of the Class, may terminate this Settlement Agreement by 30 days written notice to the other party.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, Sections 7.F, 8.F, 9.A, 9.B and 9.C to the extent these Sections create rights and obligations relating to the non-occurrence of the Implementation Date as well as Sections 22, 23, 26 and 29, shall survive the termination of this Settlement Agreement.
 
 
In recognition of the interest of Ford, the UAW, the Class and the Covered Group in improving the quality, affordability, and accountability of health care in the United States, the parties agree that as a part of this settlement Ford and the UAW shall establish a National Institute for Health Care Reform ().  The Institute shall be established and receive its first annual funding payment as soon as practicable after the Final Effective Date on the basis set forth in the term sheet attached as to this Settlement Agreement.  The annual funding payment shall be payable in four equal quarterly installments.  The funding and operation of the Institute shall be separate, independent and distinct from the New Plan and the New VEBA.  Any payments by Ford to the Institute shall be governed exclusively by the term sheet attached as to this Settlement Agreement and are not in any way related to Fords payment obligations as described in Sections 8 and 12 of this Settlement Agreement.  Additionally, Section 19 of this Settlement Agreement shall not apply to any obligation Ford may have to make payments with regard to the Institute.
Institute
Exhibit E
Exhibit E
 
 
35
 
 
 
A.            References in this Settlement Agreement to Sections, Paragraphs and Exhibits refer to the Sections, Paragraphs, and Exhibits of this Settlement Agreement unless otherwise specified.
 
B.            The Court shall, subject to Section 26 of this Settlement Agreement, retain exclusive jurisdiction to resolve any disputes relating to or arising out of or in connection with the enforcement, interpretation or implementation of this Settlement Agreement.  Each of the parties hereto expressly and irrevocably submits to the jurisdiction of the Court and expressly waives any argument it may have with respect to venue or forum non conveniens.
 
C.            This Settlement Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the parties regarding the matters set forth herein, and no representations, warranties or inducements have been made to any party concerning this Settlement Agreement, other than representations, warranties and covenants contained and memorialized in this Settlement Agreement.  This Settlement Agreement supersedes any prior understandings, agreements or representations by or between the parties, written or oral, regarding the matters set forth in this Settlement Agreement.
 
D.            The captions used in this Settlement Agreement are for convenience of reference only and do not constitute a part of this Settlement Agreement and will not be deemed to limit, characterize or in any way affect any provision of this Settlement Agreement, and all provisions of this Settlement Agreement will be enforced and construed as if no captions had been used in this Settlement Agreement.
 
E.            The Class Representatives expressly authorize Class Counsel to take all appropriate action required or permitted to be taken by the Class Representatives pursuant to this Settlement Agreement to effectuate its terms and also expressly authorize Class Counsel to enter into any non-material modifications or amendments to this Settlement Agreement on behalf of them that Class Counsel deems appropriate from the date this Settlement Agreement is signed until the Final Effective Date; provided, however, that the effectiveness of any such amendment which adversely impacts the level of benefits to any Class Member as well as any material amendment shall be subject to the approval of the Court.
 
F.             This Settlement Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts.  All executed counterparts and each of them shall be deemed to be one and the same instrument, provided that counsel for the parties to this Settlement Agreement shall exchange among themselves original signed counterparts.
 
G.             No party to this Settlement Agreement may assign any of its rights hereunder without the prior written consent of the other parties, and any purported assignment in violation of this sentence shall be void. This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns.
 
 
36
 
H.             Each of Ford, the UAW, the Committee, Class Representatives, Class Members and the Class Counsel shall do any and all acts and things, and shall execute and deliver any and all documents, as may be necessary or appropriate to effect the purposes of this Settlement Agreement.
 
I.              This Settlement Agreement shall be construed in accordance with applicable federal laws of the United States of America.
 
J.             Any provision of this Settlement Agreement which is prohibited or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such prohibition or unenforceability without invalidating the remaining provisions hereof, and any such prohibition or unenforceability in any jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction. To the extent any provision of this Settlement Agreement is invalid or unenforceable as provided for in this Section 32.J of this Settlement Agreement, it shall be replaced by a valid and enforceable provision agreed to by Ford, the UAW and Class Counsel (which agreement shall not be unreasonably withheld) that preserves the same economic effect for the parties under this Settlement Agreement; provided however, that to the extent that such prohibited or unenforceable provision cannot be replaced as contemplated and the consequences of such prohibited or unenforceable provision causes this Settlement Agreement to fail of its essential purpose then this Settlement Agreement may be voided at the sole discretion of the party seeking the benefit of the prohibited or unenforceable provision.  Class Counsel is expressly authorized to take all appropriate action to implement this provision.
 
K.             In the event that any payment referenced in this Settlement Agreement is due to be made on a weekend or a holiday, the payment shall be made on the first business day following such weekend or holiday.
 
L.             In the event that any legal or regulatory approvals are required to effectuate the provisions of this Settlement Agreement, Ford, the UAW, the Class, Class Counsel, and the Committee shall fully cooperate in securing any such legal or regulatory approvals.
 
M.            Any notice, request, information or other document to be given under this Settlement Agreement to any of the parties by any other party shall be in writing and delivered personally, or sent by Federal Express or other carrier which guarantees next-day delivery, transmitted by facsimile, transmitted by email if in an Adobe Acrobat PDF file, or sent by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, at the following addresses.  All such notices and communication shall be effective when delivered by hand, or, in the case of registered or certified mail, Federal Express or other carrier, upon receipt, or, in the case of facsimile or email transmission, when transmitted (provided, however, that any notice or communication transmitted by facsimile or email shall be immediately confirmed by a telephone call to the recipient.):
 
If to the Class Representatives or Class Counsel, addressed to:
 
William T. Payne
Stember Feinstein Doyle & Payne, LLC
Pittsburgh North Office
1007 Mt. Royal Boulevard
 
37
 
Pittsburgh, PA  15222
Tel: (412) 492-8797
wpayne@stargate.net
In each case with copies to:
 
John Stember
Edward Feinstein
Stember Feinstein Doyle & Payne, LLC
1705 Allegheny Building
429 Forbes Avenue
Pittsburgh, PA 15219
Tel: (412) 338-1445
jstember@stemberfeinstein.com
efeinstein@stemberfeinstein.com
If to Ford, addressed to:
Stephen M. Kulp
Office of the General Counsel
Ford Motor Company
1 American Road
Dearborn, Michigan 48126
Tel:  (313) 322-3571 skulp@ford.com
 
in each case with copies to:
 
Peter Sherry
Secretary
Office of the General Counsel
Ford Motor Company
1 American Road
Dearborn, Michigan 48126
Tel:  (313) 322-2130
If to UAW, addressed to:
Daniel W. Sherrick
General Counsel
International Union, United Automobile, Aerospace and
Agricultural Implement Workers of America
8000 East Jefferson Avenue
Detroit, MI  48214
Tel: (313) 926-5216
 
 
38
 
with a copy to:
 
Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP
One Liberty Plaza
New York, New York 10006
Attention: A. Richard Susko/Richard S. Lincer/David I. Gottlieb
Tel: (212) 225-2000
 
Each party may substitute a designated recipient upon written notice to the other parties.
 
39
 
 
IN WITNESS THEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Settlement Agreement to be executed by themselves or their duly authorized attorneys.
 
AGREED:
 
 
 
 
40
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
41

EXHIBIT 10.3
 
EXHIBIT B
FORM OF
SECOND SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE
 
 
EXHIBIT 10.3
 
 
SECOND SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, dated as of January 1, 2008, between FORD MOTOR COMPANY, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (hereinafter sometimes called the ), and THE BANK OF NEW YORK (as successor trustee to JPMorgan Chase Bank), a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of New York, as trustee (hereinafter sometimes called the ).
Company
Trustee
WHEREAS, the Company and the Trustee have duly executed and delivered an Indenture, dated as of January 30, 2002 (such indenture is hereinafter called the ), providing for the issuance from time to time of unsecured and senior or subordinated debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness, which may be convertible into or exchangeable for any securities of any person (including the Company), to be issued in one or more series by the Company (the );
Indenture
Securities
WHEREAS, pursuant to the terms of the Indenture, the Company desires to provide for the establishment of a new series of Securities known as its 5.75% Senior Convertible Notes due 2013 (the ) to be issued under the Indenture initially in an aggregate principal amount of up to $3,334,000,000, which may be authenticated and delivered as provided in the Indenture;
Notes
WHEREAS, the Company desires to supplement the provisions of the Indenture to provide for the issuance of the Notes under the terms of the Indenture as supplemented hereby;
WHEREAS, Section 9.01 of the Indenture expressly permits the Company and the Trustee to enter into one or more indentures supplemental thereto for the purpose of establishing the form or terms of Notes to be issued under the Indenture without the consent of the Holders of any Outstanding Securities;
WHEREAS, for the purposes hereinabove recited, and pursuant to due corporate action, the Company has duly determined to execute and deliver to the Trustee the Second Supplemental Indenture; and
WHEREAS, all conditions and requirements necessary to make the Second Supplemental Indenture a valid, legal and binding instrument in accordance with its terms have been done and performed, and the execution and delivery hereof have been in all respects duly authorized.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises, the Company and the Trustee mutually covenant and agree as follows:
 
1
 
Section 1.01 All terms contained in the Second Supplemental Indenture shall, except as specifically provided herein or except as the context may otherwise require, have the meanings given to such terms in the Indenture.  In the event of any inconsistency between the Indenture and the Second Supplemental Indenture, the Second Supplemental Indenture shall govern. The words herein, hereof, hereunder, and words of similar import shall refer to the Second Supplemental Indenture.
   
Section 1.02.Solely with respect to the Notes, the following definitions shall be added to Section 1.01 of the Indenture and replace any existing definitions (as applicable) in the Indenture, each in appropriate alphabetical order. Unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
   
 has the meaning set forth in Section 6.08 (n) of the Second Supplemental Indenture.
Adjustment Event
 means, in connection with a Designated Event, (1) if the consideration paid to holders of Common Stock in connection with such transaction consists exclusively of Cash, the amount of such Cash per share of Common Stock, and (2) in all other cases, the average of the Closing Sale Prices of Common Stock for the five consecutive Trading Days immediately preceding the Effective Date of such Designated Event.
Applicable Price
 means, with respect to shares of Common Stock (as subdivided, combined or reclassified), the greater of (1) the average of the Closing Sale Prices per share of such Common Stock for the five consecutive Trading Days immediately preceding the Purchase Date multiplied by 99% or (2) $5.33 per share of such Common Stock (subject to adjustment on any date on which the Conversion Rate of the Notes is adjusted. The adjusted amount shall equal the amount immediately prior to such adjustment multiplied by a fraction the numerator of which is the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to such adjustment and the denominator of which is the Conversion Rate immediately following such adjustment.)  In the case of a Designated Event in which the shares of Common Stock have been, as of the Effective Date, converted into or exchanged for the right to receive other securities, the Applicable Settlement Value per security or per other unit shall be calculated as follows:
Applicable Settlement Value
(i)           for securities that are traded on a U.S. national securities exchange, the average of the Closing Sale Prices per security of such securities for the five consecutive Trading Days immediately preceding the Purchase Date, or
(ii)           for other consideration that Holders will have the right to receive, the value per security or per other unit determined by the Companys Board of Directors in good faith.
 means any day other than a Saturday or Sunday or other than a day on which banking institutions in New York, New York are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close.
Business Day
 
2
 
 means any and all shares, interests, participations or other equivalents (however designated) of capital stock of the Company and all warrants or options to acquire such capital stock.
Capital Stock
 or  means such coin or currency of the United States as at any time of payment is legal tender for the payment of public and private debts
Cash
cash
.
 means either of the following:
Change in Control
(i)           more than 50% of the voting power of the Companys Voting Stock being held by a Person or Persons (other than Permitted Holders) who act as a partnership, limited partnership, syndicate or other group for the purpose of acquiring, holding or disposing of securities of the Company (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the )); or
Exchange Act
(ii)
   
Continuing Directors cease to constitute at least a majority of the Companys Board of Directors.
 
s means 5:00 p.m. New York City time.
Close of Busines
 means, as of any date, the last reported per share sales price of a share of Common Stock or any other security on such date (or, if no last sale price is reported, the average of the bid and ask prices or, if more than one in either case, the average of the average bid and the average ask prices on such date) as reported on The New York Stock Exchange, or if the Common Stock or such other security is not listed on The New York Stock Exchange, as reported by the principal U.S. national or regional exchange or quotation system on which the Common Stock or such other security is then listed or quoted; , , that in the absence of such quotations, the Board of Directors will make a good faith determination of the Closing Sale Price.
Closing Sale Price
provided
however
If during a period applicable for calculating Closing Sale Price, an issuance, distribution, subdivision, combination or other transaction or event occurs that requires an adjustment to the Conversion Rate pursuant to Section 6.08 of the Second Supplemental Indenture, Closing Sale Price shall be calculated for such period in a manner determined by the Company to appropriately reflect the impact of such issuance, distribution, subdivision or combination on the price of the Common Stock during such period.
 means the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Company, or such other capital stock into which the Companys common stock is reclassified or changed.  For the avoidance of doubt, the term Common Stock shall not include the Class B Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Company.
Common Stock
 means at any date, an individual (a) who is a member of the Board of Directors of the Company on the date of the Second Supplemental Indenture, (b) who has been elected as a member of the Board of Directors with a majority of the total votes of Permitted Holders that were cast in such election voted in favor of such member or (c) who has been nominated to be a member of the Board of Directors by a majority of the other Continuing Directors then in office.
Continuing Director
 means initially the Trustee or such other office or agency subsequently designated by the Company where Notes may be presented for conversion.
Conversion Agent
 
3
 
 has the meaning set forth in Section 6.02(a) of the Second Supplemental Indenture.
Conversion Date
 has the meaning set forth in Section 6.02(a) of the Second Supplemental Indenture.
Conversion Notice
 has the meaning set forth in Section 6.03(a) of the Second Supplemental Indenture.
Conversion Obligation
  means at any time an amount equal to $1,000 principal amount of Notes divided by the then current Conversion Rate.
Conversion Price
 has the meaning set forth in Section 6.01(e) of the Second Supplemental Indenture.
Conversion Rate
 means that certain Credit Agreement dated as of December 15, 2006 among the Company, the Subsidiary Borrowers from time to time parties thereto, the banks and other financial institutions or other entities from time to time parties thereto (the "Lenders"), and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent for the Lenders.
Credit Agreement
  means the average of the Closing Sale Prices of the Common Stock for each of the 10 consecutive Trading Days ending on the earlier of the date in question and the day before the Ex-Date with respect to the issuance or distribution requiring such computation.
Current Market Price
 means any of the following:
Designated Event
(i)           more than 50% of the voting power of the Companys Voting Stock being held by a Person or Persons (other than Permitted Holders) who act as a partnership, limited partnership, syndicate or other group for the purpose of acquiring, holding or disposing of securities of the Company (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act);
(ii)           more than 50% of the voting power of the Companys Voting Stock being held by a Person or Persons who act as a partnership, limited partnership, syndicate or other group for the purpose of acquiring, holding or disposing of securities of the Company (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act), where such Person or Persons are Permitted Holders, resulting in the Common Stock (or other securities or property into which the Notes are then convertible) no longer being listed or approved for trading on The New York Stock Exchange or listed or approved for trading or quoted on the NASDAQ Global Market or on any other U.S. national securities exchange or other similar market; or
(iii)           the Company consolidates or merges with or into another Person (other than a subsidiary of the Company), or conveys, sells, transfers or leases all or substantially all of the Companys assets to another Person (other than a subsidiary of the Company), or any Person (other than a subsidiary of the Company) merges into or consolidates with the Company, and the Companys outstanding Common Stock is reclassified into, converted for or converted into the right to receive any property or security, that no such transaction shall constitute a Designated Event if Persons that beneficially own (as determined in accordance with Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act or any successor provisions) Common Stock immediately prior to the transaction beneficially own, directly or indirectly, common stock representing at least a majority of the voting power of all the common stock of the surviving Person after the transaction in substantially the same proportion as their voting power immediately prior to the transaction.
provided
 
4
 
 has the meaning set forth in Section 6.08 (n) of the Second Supplemental Indenture.
Determination Date
  has the meaning set forth in Section 6.07(a) of the Second Supplemental Indenture.
Effective Date
 means the senior unsecured notes of the Company issued pursuant to the Existing Debt Indentures.
Existing Debt Securities
 means collectively, (a) the indenture dated as of February 15, 1992 between the Company and The Bank of New York, as trustee and (b) the Indenture, as amended.
Existing Debt Indentures
 means, in connection with any dividend, issuance or distribution, the first date on which the shares of Common Stock trade on the applicable exchange or in the applicable market, regular way, without the right to receive such dividend,  issuance or distribution.
Ex-Date
 
 means, in connection with any dividend, issuance or distribution, the first date on which the shares of Common Stock begin trading on the applicable exchange or in the applicable market, regular way, without the right to receive such issuance or distribution.
Ex-distribution trading
 
 has the meaning set forth in Section 6.08 (a)(5) of the Second Supplemental Indenture.
Expiration Date
 has the meaning set forth in Section 6.08 (a)(5) of the Second Supplemental Indenture.
Expiration Time
 has the meaning set forth in Section 2.01 (4) of the Second Supplemental Indenture.
Interest Payment Date
 has the meaning set forth in Section 2.03 (a) of the Second Supplemental Indenture.
Legend
  has the meaning set forth in Section 6.07(a) of the Second Supplemental Indenture.
Make-Whole Shares
 means collectively the NASDAQ Global Select Market and the NASDAQ Global Market.
NASDAQ Global Market
 means holders of the Companys Class B Stock on the date of the Second Supplemental Indenture and such other holders of such Class B Stock from time to time; that any such holder satisfies the qualification set forth in clauses (i) through (vii) of subsection 2.2 of Article Fourth of the Companys restated certificate of incorporation as in effect on the date of the Second Supplemental Indenture.
Permitted Holders
provided
 
5
 
  has the meaning set forth in Section 5.01(a) of the Second Supplemental Indenture.
Purchase Date
 has the meaning set forth in Section 6.08 (a)(5) of the Second Supplemental Indenture.
Purchased Shares
 has the meaning set forth in Section 5.01(c) of the Second Supplemental Indenture.
Purchase Notice
 has the meaning set forth in Section 5.01(a) of the Second Supplemental Indenture.
Purchase Price
 means, for purposes of Section 6.08 of the Second Supplemental Indenture, with respect to (a) any dividend, distribution or other transaction or event in which the holders of Common Stock have the right to receive any Cash, securities or other property or in which Common Stock (or other applicable security) is exchanged for or converted into any combination of Cash, securities or other property, the date fixed for determination of holders of Common Stock entitled to receive such Cash, securities or other property (whether such date is fixed by the Board of Directors or by statute, contract or otherwise) or (b) any subdivision or combination, the Business Day immediately preceding the effective date of such subdivision or combination.
Record Date
 has the meaning set forth in Section 6.09 of the Second Supplemental Indenture.
Reference Property
 has the meaning set forth in Section 2.01 (4) of the Second Supplemental Indenture.
Regular Record Date
 has the meaning set forth in Section 2.01 (12)(a) of the Second Supplemental Indenture.
Securities Act
 means the Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of January 1, 2008, to the Indenture.
Second Supplemental Indenture
means the Settlement Agreement, dated March 28, 2008, as amended, supplemented, replaced or otherwise altered from time to time, between the Company, the International Union, United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America, and certain class representatives, on behalf of the class of plaintiffs in (1) the class action of Civil Action No. 07-14845 (E.D. Mich. filed Nov. 9, 2007) and/or (2) the class action of , Civil Action No. 05-74730, (E.D. Mich. July 13, 2006, ) 497 F.3d 615 (6th Cir. 2007).  
Settlement Agreement
Intl Union, UAW, et al. v. Ford Motor Company,
Intl Union, UAW, et al. v. Ford Motor Company
affd
 means (x) if the applicable security is listed on The New York Stock Exchange, a day on which trades may be made thereon or (y) if the applicable security is listed or admitted for trading on the American Stock Exchange, The NASDAQ Global Market or another national securities exchange or market, a day on which the American Stock Exchange, The NASDAQ Global Market or such other national securities exchange or market is open for business or (z) if the applicable security is not so listed, admitted for trading or quoted, any Business Day.
Trading Day
 
6
 
 means Capital Stock having the right to vote for the election of directors under ordinary circumstances.
Voting Stock
Section 1.03.. The provisions contained in the Second Supplemental Indenture shall apply only to the Notes and not to any other series of Securities issued under the Indenture and any covenants provided herein are solely for the benefit of the Notes and not for the benefit of any other series of Securities issued under the Indenture.
   
Applicability
Section 2.01. .
Terms
Pursuant to Section 3.01 of the Indenture, the terms of the Notes shall be as follows:
(1)           The Notes shall be senior in rank, and the title of the Notes is 5.75% Senior Convertible Notes due 2013.
(2)           The aggregate principal amount of Notes that may be authenticated and delivered under the Indenture is initially limited to $3,334,000,000, except for Notes authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or exchange for, or in lieu of, other Notes pursuant to this Second Supplemental Indenture.
(3)           The principal amount of the Notes shall be due and payable on January 1, 2013.
(4)           Interest on the Notes will accrue at the rate of 5.75% per annum, from January 1, 2008 until the principal thereof is paid or made available for payment.  Interest shall be payable on January 1 and July 1 of each year (each, an ), commencing July 1, 2008, to the Persons in whose name the Notes are registered at the Close of Business on the December 15 or June 15, whether or not a Business Day, immediately preceding the relevant Interest Payment Date (each, a ).  Interest on the Notes shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year comprised of twelve 30-day months.  If interest or principal is payable on a day that is not a Business Day, the Company shall make the payment on the next Business Day, and no interest will accrue as a result of the delay in payment.
Interest Payment Date
Regular Record Date
(5)           The principal of and interest, if any, on the Notes shall be payable at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee.
(6)           Prior to January 1, 2011, the Notes are not redeemable at the option of the Company.  Starting on January 1, 2011 and on any Business Day thereafter, in accordance with the Indenture, including, without limitation, Article Eleven of the Indenture, and the Second Supplemental Indenture, the Company may redeem all or any portion of the Notes, for Cash, at once or from time to time, upon at least 30 and not more than 60 days notice, which shall be an irrevocable notice, at a redemption price equal to (x) 100% of the principal amount to be redeemed, together with accrued and unpaid interest thereon, up to, but not including, the Redemption Date (subject to the right of Holders on the relevant Regular Record Date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date) and (y) the Make-whole Redemption Payment, if any, payable in accordance with Section 4.02.
 
7
 
(7)           (a) Subject to the terms and conditions of the Indenture and the Second Supplemental Indenture, including, without limitation, Article Five of the Second Supplemental Indenture, Holders shall have the right to require the Company to repurchase any outstanding Notes for shares of Common Stock (or such other consideration into which the shares of Common Stock have been converted or exchanged in connection with such Designated Event) upon a Designated Event.
(b) Subject to the terms and conditions of the Indenture and the Second Supplemental Indenture, including, without limitation, Article Five of the Second Supplemental Indenture, Holders shall have the right to require the Company to repurchase for Cash any outstanding Notes upon a Change in Control.
(8)           The Notes are not entitled to any sinking fund or analogous reserve.
(9)           The Notes shall be issuable in denominations of $1,000 and integral multiples thereof.
(10)           The Securities Registrar, authenticating agent, Conversion Agent and Paying Agent for the Notes shall initially be the Trustee.
(11)           Payments of principal and interest on the Notes shall be made in cash.
(12)           (a)           The Notes will be initially issued in physical definitive form and represented by a single registered Note substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A, delivered to Ford  UAW Holdings LLC.  Except as provided below, the Notes are issuable only in definitive registered form without coupons in denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof.  Subject to certain limitations set forth in this Second Supplemental Indenture, the Notes are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Notes of different authorized denominations as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.  In the event that a registration statement is filed with the Commission registering the Securities under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or at any other time selected by the Company, the Notes in certificated form may be presented to the Trustee by the Holders of the Notes in exchange for one or more Global Securities in an aggregate principal amount up to the aggregate principal amount of all outstanding Notes, to be registered in the name of the Depository, or its nominee, and delivered by the Trustee to the Depository, or its custodian, for crediting to the accounts of its participants pursuant to the procedures of the Depository.  The Company upon any such presentation shall execute a Global Security in such aggregate principal amount and deliver the same to the Trustee for authentication and delivery in accordance with the Indenture.
 
8
 
(b)           In the event that the Notes in definitive registered form have been exchanged for one or more Global Securities as provided in the preceding paragraph, upon the occurrence of an event described in Section 2.05(c) of the Indenture, the Holder of such Global Security shall surrender such Global Security to the Trustee for cancellation whereupon, in accordance with said Section 2.05(c), the Company will execute and the Trustee will authenticate and deliver Notes in definitive registered form without coupons, in denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof, and in an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of such Global Security in exchange for such Global Security.
(c)           Notwithstanding any other provision of the Indenture or this  Second Supplemental Indenture, so long as the Notes are in the form of Global Securities, the parties to the Indenture and the Second Supplemental Indenture and the Holders of such Securities shall be bound at all times by the applicable procedures of the Depository.
(13)           The Notes shall be convertible at the option of the Holders in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in Article Six of the Second Supplemental Indenture.
Section 2.02.The Notes and the Trustees certificate of authentication to be borne by such Notes shall be substantially in the form set forth in Exhibit A to the Second Supplemental Indenture.  The terms and provisions contained in the form of Notes attached as Exhibit A hereto shall constitute, and are hereby expressly made, a part of the Second Supplemental Indenture and, to the extent applicable, the Company and the Trustee, by their execution and delivery of the Second Supplemental Indenture, expressly agree to such terms and provisions and to be bound thereby.
   
Section 2.03.  .
Restrictive Legends
(a)           If Notes are issued upon the transfer, exchange or replacement of Notes subject to restrictions on transfer and bearing the legends substantially in the form of that set forth on the form of Note attached hereto as Exhibit A setting forth such restrictions (collectively, the ), or if a request is made to remove the Legend on a Note, the Notes so issued shall bear the Legend, or the Legend shall not be removed, as the case may be, unless there is delivered to the Company and the Security Registrar such satisfactory evidence, which shall include an opinion of counsel, as may be reasonably required by the Company and the Security Registrar, that neither the Legend nor the restrictions on transfer set forth therein are required to ensure that transfers thereof comply with the provisions of Rule 144 under the Securities Act or that such Notes are not restricted within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act.   Upon (i) provision of such satisfactory evidence or (ii) notification by the Company to the Trustee and Security Registrar of the sale of such Note pursuant to a registration statement that is effective at the time of such sale, the Trustee, at the written direction of the Company, shall authenticate and deliver a Note that does not bear the Legend.   If the Legend is removed from the face of a Note and the Note is subsequently held by an Affiliate of the Company, the Legend shall be reinstated.   Any shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion of Notes that bear the Legend shall bear a restricted legend substantially identical to the Legend unless otherwise required by applicable law.
Legend
 
9
 
Nothing in this Second Supplemental Indenture or in the Notes shall prohibit the sale or other transfer of any Notes (including beneficial interests in the Global Securities) to the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
(b)           Subject to the succeeding paragraph, every Note shall be subject to the restrictions on transfer provided in the Legend including the delivery of a certification or an opinion of counsel as set forth in the Legend, if so requested by the Company or the Security Registrar.  Whenever any Security bearing the Legend is presented or surrendered for registration of transfer or for exchange for a Security registered in a name other than that of the Holder, such Security must be accompanied by a certificate in substantially the form set forth in the Assignment Form in Exhibit A attached hereto, dated the date of such surrender and signed by the Holder of such Security, as to compliance with such restrictions on transfer.  The Security Registrar shall not be required to accept for such registration of transfer or exchange any Security not so accompanied by a properly completed certificate.
(c)        Beneficial interests in any Global Security bearing the Legend shall be subject to restrictions on transfer comparable to those set forth therein to the extent required by the Securities Act.  Beneficial interests in the Global Security bearing the Legend may be transferred to persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in the Global Securities bearing the Legend or Global Securities not bearing the Legend in accordance with the transfer restrictions set forth in the Legend.  To the extent required to comply with the Securities Act and any applicable procedures of the Depository, transfers of an interest in the Global Securities bearing the Legend to Global Securities not bearing the Legend shall be accompanied by a certificate in substantially the form set forth in the Assignment Form in Exhibit A attached hereto.
(d)           The restrictions imposed by the Legend upon the transferability of any Note shall cease and terminate when such Note has been sold pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act or transferred in compliance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act (or any successor provision thereto) or, if earlier, upon the expiration of the holding period applicable to sales thereof under Rule 144 under the Securities Act (or any successor provision).  Any Note as to which such restrictions on transfer shall have expired in accordance with their terms or shall have terminated may, upon a surrender of such Note for exchange to the Security Registrar in accordance with the provisions of this Section 2.03 (accompanied, in the event that such restrictions on transfer have terminated by reason of a transfer in compliance with Rule 144 or any successor provision, by an opinion of counsel having substantial experience in practice under the Securities Act and otherwise reasonably acceptable to the Company, addressed to the Company and the Security Registrar and in form acceptable to the Company, to the effect that the transfer of such Note has been made in compliance with Rule 144 or such successor provision), be exchanged for a new Note, of like tenor and aggregate principal amount, which shall not bear the restrictive Legend.  The Company shall inform the Trustee of the effective date of any registration statement registering the Notes under the Securities Act.  The Trustee and the Security Registrar shall not be liable for any action taken or omitted to be taken by it in good faith in accordance with the aforementioned opinion of counsel or registration statement.  This section 2.03(d) shall not apply to the restrictive legend to be borne by the shares of Common Stock received upon conversion of the Notes as described in Section 6.01(h) of this Second Supplemental Indenture.
 
10
 
(e)           As used in the preceding two paragraphs of this Section 2.03, the term  encompasses any sale, pledge, transfer, hypothecation or other disposition of any Note.
transfer
The following amendments to the Indenture shall apply only to the Notes and not to any other series of Securities issued under the Indenture and shall be effective for so long as any Notes remain Outstanding.  The Indenture is amended by the Second Supplemental Indenture solely with respect to the Notes, as follows:
Section 3.01.  
Amendments to Article Five.
(a)           Solely with respect to the Notes, Section 5.01 of the Indenture shall be amended and restated in its entirety by inserting the following in lieu thereof:
SECTION 5.01.  .  Event of Default, wherever used in the Indenture or the Second Supplemental Indenture with respect to the Notes, shall mean any one of the following events (whatever the reason for such Event of Default and whether it shall be voluntary or involuntary or be effected by operation of law or pursuant to any judgment, decree or order of any court or any order, rule or regulation of any administrative or governmental body):
Events of Default
(1)           default in the payment of any interest upon any Note when it becomes due and payable, and continuance of such default for a period of 30 days; or
(2)           default in the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any, on), Purchase Price or Redemption Price of any Note at Maturity, and continuance of such default for five Business Days; or
(3)           failure by the Company to provide notice of a Change of Control in accordance with the terms of Article Five of the Second Supplemental Indenture; or
(4)           default in the performance, or breach, of any covenant or warranty of the Company in the Indenture or the Second Supplemental Indenture (other than a covenant or warranty a default in whose performance or whose breach is elsewhere in this Section specifically dealt with or which has expressly been included in the Indenture solely for the benefit of a series of Securities other than the Notes), and continuance of such default or breach for a period of 90 days (subject to reduction pursuant to Section 7.03(a) of the Indenture as amended by the Second Supplemental Indenture if the 15-day period referred to therein has been extended as provided therein) after there has been given, by registered or certified mail, to the Company by the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee by the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Notes a written notice specifying such default or breach and requiring it to be remedied and stating that such notice is a Notice of Default hereunder; or
 
11
 
(5)           the entry by a court having jurisdiction in the premises of (A) a decree or order for relief in respect of the Company in an involuntary case or proceeding under the National Bankruptcy Act or any other similar Federal or State law or (B) a decree or order adjudging the Company a bankrupt or insolvent, or approving as properly filed a petition seeking reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition of or in respect of the Company under any applicable Federal or State law, or appointing a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator or other similar official of the Company or of any substantial part of the property of the Company, or ordering the winding up or liquidation of the affairs of the Company, and the continuance of any such decree or order for relief or any such other decree or order unstayed and in effect for a period of 90 consecutive days; or
(6)           the commencement by the Company of a voluntary case or proceeding under the National Bankruptcy Act or any other similar Federal or State law or of any other case or proceeding to be adjudicated a bankrupt or insolvent, or the consent by the Company to the entry of a decree or order for relief in respect of the Company in an involuntary case or proceeding under the National Bankruptcy Act or any other similar Federal or State law or to the commencement of any bankruptcy or insolvency case or proceeding against the Company, or the filing by the Company of a petition or answer or consent seeking reorganization or relief under any applicable Federal or State law, or the consent by the Company to the filing of such petition or to the appointment of or taking possession by a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator or similar official of the Company or of any substantial part of the property of the Company, or the making by the Company of an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or the admission by the Company in writing of its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due; or
(7)           default in the delivery when due of all shares of Common Stock and any Cash payable upon conversion with respect to the Notes, which default continues for 15 days; or
(8)           failure to comply with the Companys payment obligations under the Settlement Agreement for a period of 15 Business Days after the date on which written notice of such failure, requiring the Company to remedy the same, shall have been given to the Company by the committee that administers the New VEBA, unless, within such 15 Business Day period, the Company remedies the failure to comply with its payment obligations under the Settlement Agreement by paying the amount then in default plus accrued interest on such amount at the rate of 9% per annum; that an Event of Default shall not arise under this clause (8) with respect to any portion of the principal amount of any Notes  that is held or beneficially owned by any Person other than the New VEBA. 
provided
 
(b)           Solely with respect to the Notes, Section 5.02 of the Indenture shall be amended and restated in its entirety by inserting the following in lieu thereof:
 
12
 
SECTION 5.02.  .  If an Event of Default, other than pursuant to Section 5.01(5) and (6) of the Indenture, with respect to the Notes occurs and is continuing, then in every such case the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Notes of this series may declare the principal amount of all of the Notes plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Notes accrued through the date of such declaration to be due and payable immediately, by a notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if given by Holders), and upon any such declaration such principal amount and accrued interest shall become immediately due and payable. In the case of Events of Default occurring under Sections 5.01(5) and (6) of the Indenture, the principal amount of the Notes plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, accrued thereon through the occurrence of such event shall automatically become and be immediately due and payable.
Acceleration of Maturity; Rescission and Annulment
At any time after such a declaration of acceleration with respect to the Notes has been made or occurred and before a judgment or decree for payment of the money due has been obtained by the Trustee as hereinafter in this Article provided, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Notes of this series, by written notice to the Company and the Trustee, may waive all defaults and rescind and annul such declaration and its consequences if:
(1)           the Company has paid or deposited with the Trustee a sum sufficient to pay:
(A)           all overdue interest on all Notes,
(B)           the principal of (and premium, if any, on) any Notes which have become due otherwise than by such declaration of acceleration and interest thereon at the rate or rates prescribed therefor in the Notes,
(C)           to the extent that payment of such interest is enforceable under applicable law, interest upon overdue interest to the date of such payment or deposit at the rate or rates prescribed therefor in the Notes or, if no such rate or rates are so prescribed, at the rate borne by the Notes during the period of such default, and
(D)           all sums paid or advanced by the Trustee hereunder and the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel;
and
(2)           all Events of Default with respect to Notes, other than the non-payment of the principal of Notes and accrued interest which have become due solely by such declaration of acceleration, have been cured or waived as provided in Section 5.13 of the Indenture.
No such waiver or rescission and annulment shall affect any subsequent default or impair any right consequent thereon.
 
13
 
Section 3.02.  
Amendment to Article Seven.
(a)           Solely with respect to the Notes, Section 7.03(a) of the Indenture shall be amended and restated in its entirety by inserting the following text in lieu thereof:
(a)           The Company covenants and agrees to furnish to the Trustee copies of the Companys annual reports on Form 10-K (or any successor form) and the Companys quarterly reports on Form 10-Q (or any successor form) within 15 days after the Company shall be required to file the same with the Commission; provided that if the Company is not required to file such reports with the Commission, then within 15 days after the Company would be required to file these reports with the Commission if the Company had a security listed on a U.S. national securities exchange.  Such 15-day period shall automatically be extended to the earlier of (a) the date that is five days prior to the date of the occurrence of any event of default (or any comparable term) under any of the Companys Existing Debt Securities (other than the Notes) as a result of the Companys failure to provide annual or quarterly financial statements to the extent required under the related indenture and (b) in the case of audited annual financial statements, within 240 days after the end of the Companys fiscal year, and in the case of unaudited quarterly financial statements, within 220 days after the end of the respective quarters for each of the first three quarterly periods of each fiscal year of the Company.  If the period for filing any report is automatically extended for 85 or more days as described above, then the 90 day cure period for the Companys failure to comply with the Companys obligation to file such report shall be reduced to 5 days. If, however, in connection with an event of default under the Companys Existing Debt Securities (other than the Notes), the period for filing such report is automatically extended for less than 85 days, then the number of days in such cure period shall be reduced to equal the number by which 90 exceeds the number of days of such extension.  It is understood and agreed that failure to comply with Section 314(a) of the TIA (or any successor provision thereto) shall not constitute a default or breach for purposes of Section 5.01(4) of the Indenture as amended by the Second Supplemental Indenture and, therefore, shall not permit Holders of Notes in such case to declare the principal amount of the Notes to be due and payable immediately pursuant to Section 5.02 of the Indenture as amended by the Second Supplemental Indenture.
Section 3.03.  
Amendment to Article Nine.
(a)           Solely with respect to the Notes, Section 9.01(2) of the Indenture shall be amended and restated in its entirety by replacing current clause (2) with the following text:
(2)           to add to the covenants of the Company for the benefit of the Holders of Notes or to surrender any right or power herein conferred upon the Company or to make other changes which would not adversely affect the interests of the Holders of the Notes in any material respect; or
(b)           Solely with respect to the Notes, Section 9.01 of the Indenture shall be amended by deleting the period following clause (10) and replacing it with ; or and inserting the following:
(11)  to comply with the rules of any applicable securities depositary; or
 
14
 
 (12)        to add any guarantor with respect to the Notes.
(c)           Solely with respect to the Notes, Section 9.02 of the Indenture shall be amended by replacing the first paragraph with the following:
With the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Notes of this series, by Act of said Holders delivered to the Company and the Trustee, the Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee may, from time to time and at any time, enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto (which shall conform to the provisions of the TIA as in force at the date of execution thereof) for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of this Indenture or of any supplemental indenture or of modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of the Notes; , , that no such supplemental indenture shall, without the consent of each Holder of Outstanding Notes affected thereby:
provided
however
 
15
 
REDEMPTION AT THE OPTION OF THE COMPANY
Section 4.01.  .  Prior to January 1, 2011, the Notes are not redeemable at the option of the Company.  Starting on January 1, 2011 and on any Business Day thereafter, in accordance with the Indenture, including, without limitation, Article Eleven of the Indenture, and the Second Supplemental Indenture, the Company may redeem all or any portion of the Notes, for Cash, at once or from time to time, upon at least 30 and not more than 60 days notice, which shall be an irrevocable notice, at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount to be redeemed, together with (i) accrued and unpaid interest thereon, up to, but not including, the Redemption Date (subject to the right of Holders on the relevant Regular Record Date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date), and (ii) the Make-whole Redemption Payment, if any, payable in accordance with Section 4.02.
Redemption at the Option of the Company
Section 4.02.  .  Subject to the terms and conditions of this Section 4.02, if the Company redeems all or a portion of the Notes, the Company shall pay to the Holder of such Notes so redeemed the Make-whole Redemption Payment as described below.  The Make-whole Redemption Payment shall be an amount in cash equal to the present value, discounted at 9%, to the Redemption Date of the Remaining Cash Flow Payments (as defined below) due on the portion of the Notes redeemed.  The "Remaining Cash Flow Payments" means an amount equal to the excess, if any, of (i) the aggregate of the interest payments that would have been payable on the portion of the Notes redeemed (if such portion of the Notes had not been redeemed) to January 1, 2013 over (ii) the aggregate dividend payments (determined based on the annual dividend rate in effect at the Redemption Date, if any) that would have been paid during such period from the Redemption Date to January 1, 2013 on the number of shares of Common Stock into which the portion of the Notes to be redeemed is convertible at the Conversion Rate in effect on the Redemption Date.
Make-Whole Redemption Payment upon Redemption
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company shall not be required to make any Make-whole Redemption Payment if on the Redemption Date the average of the Closing Sale Price of Common Stock for the five consecutive Trading Days immediately preceding but not including such Redemption Date is equal to or greater than the Measurement Price set forth in the table below (as adjusted as described below):
 
16
 
If the actual Redemption Date is between two Redemption Dates in the table above, then the applicable Measurement Price for determining whether the Company must make a Make-whole Redemption Payment shall be determined by a straight-line interpolation between the Measurement Price set forth for the Redemption Date referenced above next preceding the actual Redemption Date and the Measurement Price set forth above for the Redemption Date next succeeding the actual Redemption Date, based on a 365-day year.
The Measurement Prices set forth in the table above shall be adjusted as of any date on which the Conversion Rate of the Notes is adjusted.  The adjusted Measurement Prices will equal the Measurement Price set forth in the table multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the adjustment giving rise to the Measurement Price adjustment and the denominator of which is the Conversion Rate as so adjusted.
The Company shall be responsible for making all calculations or determinations regarding the Make-whole Redemption Payment, including, but not limited to, whether or not such payment shall be made and the amount of any such payment.  The Trustee shall have no duty or obligation to calculate, verify or confirm any of the calculations or determinations made by the Company under this Article IV.
Section 5.01. .
Offer to Repurchase Upon a Designated Event or Change in Control
(a)           If there shall have occurred a Designated Event or Change in Control, each Holder shall have the right, at such Holders option, to require the Company to purchase all or any portion of such Holders Notes not previously repurchased or called for redemption in integral multiples of $1,000 principal amount on a date selected by the Company as specified below (the ), at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be purchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but not including, the Purchase Date (the ), subject to satisfaction by or on behalf of the Holder of the requirements set forth in Section 5.01(c) of the Second Supplemental Indenture; that if the Purchase Date is after a Regular Record Date and on or prior to the Interest Payment Date to which it relates, interest accrued to such Interest Payment Date will be paid to Holders of the Notes as of the preceding Regular Record Date.  With respect to any event that is a Change in Control, the Company shall pay the Purchase Price in Cash.  With respect to any Designated Event that is not a Change in Control, the Company shall pay the Purchase Price in shares of Common Stock (or such other consideration into which the shares of Common Stock have been converted or exchanged in connection with such Designated Event) as provided in Section 5.03(b) of the Second Supplemental Indenture below.
Purchase Date
Purchase Price
provided
 
17
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, Holders will not have the right to require the Company to repurchase the Notes in connection with a Designated Event or Change in Control, and the Company shall not be required to deliver a notice of such Designated Event or Change in Control incidental thereto, if:
(i)           the Closing Sale Price of Common Stock for any five Trading Days within the period of ten consecutive Trading Days ending immediately after the later of the Change in Control or Designated Event or the public announcement thereof, in the case of an acquisition of Capital Stock or resulting from a change in Continuing Directors, or the period of ten consecutive Trading Days ending immediately before the Change in Control or Designated Event, in the case of a merger, consolidation or asset sale, equals or exceeds 105% of the Conversion Price of the Notes in effect on each of those five Trading Days; or
(ii)           at least 90% of the consideration, excluding Cash payments for fractional shares of Common Stock and Cash payments made pursuant to dissenters appraisal rights, in a transaction otherwise constituting a Change in Control or Designated Event consists of shares of common stock, depositary receipts or other certificates representing common equity interests traded on a U.S. national securities exchange, or will be so traded immediately following such transaction, and as a result of such transaction the Notes become convertible solely into such consideration.
(b)           Within 30 days after the occurrence of a Designated Event or Change in Control, the Company shall mail a written notice of such Designated Event or Change in Control, as the case may be, by first-class mail to the Trustee and to each Holder at its address shown in the Security Register (and to beneficial owners as required by applicable law). The notice shall include a form of Purchase Notice to be completed by the Holder and shall state:
(i)           briefly, the events causing, and the effective date of, such Designated Event or Change in Control, as the case may be, giving rise to the purchase right at the option of the Holder;
(ii)           the date by which the Purchase Notice pursuant to this Section 5.01 must be given;
(iii)           the Purchase Price, and that the Purchase Price will be paid in Cash, in the case of a Change in Control, or shares of Common Stock (or such other consideration into which the shares of Common Stock have been converted or exchanged in connection with such Designated Event) in the case of a Designated Event that is not a Change in Control;
 
18
 
(iv)           the Purchase Date, which date shall be the 30 Business Day after the date of such notice;
th
(v)           the name and address of the Paying Agent and the Conversion Agent;
(vi)           the then-current Conversion Rate and any adjustments thereto;
(vii)           that Notes with respect to which a Purchase Notice has been given by the Holder may not be converted pursuant to Article 5 of the Second Supplemental Indenture;
(viii)         briefly, the procedures a Holder must follow to exercise its rights under this Section 5.01;
(ix)           that Notes must be surrendered to the Paying Agent to collect payment of the Purchase Price;
(x)           that the Purchase Price for any Note as to which a Purchase Notice has been duly given, will be paid on or prior to the first Business Day following the later of the Purchase Date and the time of surrender of such Note;
(xi)           that, unless the Company defaults in making payment of such Purchase Price and interest due, if any, interest on Notes surrendered for purchase will cease to accrue on and after the Purchase Date; and
(xii)           the CUSIP number of the Notes, if any.
(c)           A Holder may exercise its rights specified in Section 5.01(a) of the Second Supplemental Indenture by delivery of an irrevocable written notice of purchase (a ) to the Paying Agent at any time prior to the Close of Business on the Purchase Date, stating:
Purchase Notice
(i)           the certificate number of the Note which the Holder will deliver to be purchased, if Certificated Notes have been issued, or notice compliant with the relevant Depository procedures if the Notes are not certificated;
(ii)           the portion of the principal amount of the Note which the Holder will deliver to be purchased, which portion must be $1,000 or an integral multiple thereof; and
(iii)           that such Note shall be purchased pursuant to the terms and conditions specified in Article 5 of the Second Supplemental Indenture.
The delivery of such Note to the Paying Agent prior to, on or after the Purchase Date (together with all necessary endorsements) at the offices of the Paying Agent shall be a condition to the receipt by the Holder of the Purchase Price therefor; , that such Purchase Price shall be so paid pursuant to this Section 5.01 only if the Note so delivered to the Paying Agent shall conform in all respects to the description thereof set forth in the related Purchase Notice.
provided, however
 
19
 
The Company shall purchase from the Holder thereof, pursuant to this Section 5.01, a portion of a Note if the principal amount of such portion is $1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000. Provisions of the Indenture and the Second Supplemental Indenture that apply to the purchase of all of a Note also apply to the purchase of such portion of such Note.
Any purchase by the Company contemplated pursuant to the provisions of this Section 5.01 shall be consummated by the delivery of the consideration to be received by the Holder on or prior to the first Business Day following the later of the Purchase Date and the time of delivery of the Note to the Paying Agent in accordance with this Section 5.01.
The Paying Agent shall promptly notify the Company of the receipt by it of any Purchase Notice.
Section 5.02. . Upon receipt by the Paying Agent of the Purchase Notice specified in Section 5.01(c) of the Second Supplemental Indenture, the Holder of the Note in respect of which such Purchase Notice was given shall thereafter be entitled to receive solely the Purchase Price with respect to such Note. Such Purchase Price shall be paid to such Holder, subject to receipt of funds by the Paying Agent, on or prior to the first Business Day following the later of (x) the Purchase Date with respect to such Note (provided the conditions in Section 5.01(c) of the Second Supplemental Indenture have been satisfied) and (y) the time of delivery of such Note to the Paying Agent by the Holder thereof in the manner required by Section 5.01(c) of the Second Supplemental Indenture. Notes in respect of which a Purchase Notice has been given by the Holder thereof may not be converted pursuant to Article 5 of the Second Supplemental Indenture on or after the date of the delivery of such Purchase Notice.
Effect of Purchase Notice
Section 5.03. . (a) Prior to 11:00 a.m. (New York City time) on or prior to the first Business Day following the Purchase Date in connection with a Change in Control, the Company shall deposit with the Trustee or with the Paying Agent (or, if the Company or a Subsidiary or an Affiliate of either of them is acting as the Paying Agent, shall segregate and hold in trust as provided in Section 10.03 of the Indenture) an amount of money (in immediately available funds if deposited on such Business Day) sufficient to pay the aggregate Purchase Price of all the Notes or portions thereof which are to be purchased as of the Purchase Date.
Deposit of Purchase Price
If the Trustee or the Paying Agent holds money sufficient to pay the Purchase Price of a Note on the first Business Day following the Purchase Date in accordance with the terms hereof, then, immediately after the Purchase Date, the Note to be repurchased will cease to be outstanding, interest on such Note will cease to accrue, whether or not the Note is delivered to the Trustee or the Paying Agent, and all other rights of the Holder shall terminate, other than the right to receive the Purchase Price upon delivery of the Note.
(b)           Prior to 11:00 a.m. (New York City time) on or prior to the first Business Day following the Purchase Date in connection with a Designated Event that is not a Change in Control, the Company shall deposit with the Trustee or with the Paying Agent a number of shares of Common Stock (or other consideration into which the shares of Common Stock have been converted in connection with the Designated Event) calculated in accordance with the formula set forth below sufficient to pay the aggregate Purchase Price of all the Notes or portions thereof which are to be purchased as of the Purchase Date.  In the event that holders of Common Stock have the opportunity to elect the form of consideration to be received in the transaction constituting a Designated Event, the type and amount of consideration that Holders of Notes will receive upon purchase will be deemed to be the weighted average of the type and amount of consideration received by holders of Common Stock as a result of such transaction.
 
20
 
The number of shares of Common Stock (or amount of other consideration) to be delivered upon purchase in connection with such a Designated Event shall be determined as follows:
The Company will not issue fractional shares of Common Stock (or transfer any fractional interests in any other consideration).  The Company shall pay cash for all fractional shares of Common Stock (or fractional interests in any other consideration) (calculated on an aggregate basis for Notes delivered for purchase by any Holder) based on the Applicable Settlement Value.
All shares of Common Stock that may be issued upon purchase of Notes shall upon issuance be fully paid and nonassessable by the Company and free from all taxes, liens and charges with respect to the issue thereof.
If the Trustee or the Paying Agent holds shares of Common Stock (or other consideration) sufficient to pay the Purchase Price of a Note on the first Business Day following the Purchase Date in accordance with the terms hereof, then, immediately after the Purchase Date, the Note to be repurchased will cease to be outstanding, interest on such Note will cease to accrue, whether or not the Note is delivered to the Trustee or the Paying Agent, and all other rights of the Holder shall terminate, other than the right to receive the Purchase Price upon delivery of the Note.
Section 5.04. . Any Note which is to be purchased only in part shall be surrendered at the office of the Paying Agent (with, if the Company or the Trustee so requires, due endorsement by, or a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Trustee duly executed by, the Holder thereof or such Holders attorney duly authorized in writing) and the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder of such Note, without service charge, a new Note or Notes, of any authorized denomination as requested by such Holder in aggregate principal amount equal to, and in exchange for, the portion of the principal amount of the Note so surrendered that is not purchased.
Notes Purchased In Part
Section 5.05. . When complying with the provisions of this Article Five, and subject to any exemptions available under applicable law, the Company shall:
Covenant To Comply With Securities Laws Upon Repurchase of Notes
 
21
 
(a)           comply in all material respects with the applicable provisions of Rule 13e-4 and Rule 14e-1 (or any successor provision and any other issuer tender offer rules) under the Exchange Act, as then applicable;
(b)            file the related Schedule TO (or any applicable successor schedule, form or report) if then required, or any other then required schedule, form or report, under the Exchange Act; and
(c)           otherwise comply with all federal and state securities laws.
To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the provisions of Article Five of the Second Supplemental Indenture, the Companys compliance with such laws and regulations shall not in and of itself cause a breach of its obligations under Article Five of the Second Supplemental Indenture.
Section 5.06. . The Trustee and the Paying Agent shall return to the Company any cash or other property that remains unclaimed for two years, subject to applicable unclaimed property law, together with interest, if any, thereon held by them for the payment of the Purchase Price; provided however, that to the extent that the aggregate amount of cash or other property deposited by the Company pursuant to Section 5.03 of the Second Supplemental Indenture exceeds the aggregate Purchase Price of the Notes or portions thereof which the Company is obligated to purchase as of the Purchase Date, then on the Business Day following the Purchase Date, the Trustee or Paying Agent, as applicable, shall return any such excess to the Company. Thereafter, any Holder entitled to payment must look to the Company for payment as general creditors, unless an applicable abandoned property law designates another Person.
Repayment to the Company
Section 6.01. .
Right to Convert
(a)           Subject to and upon compliance with the provisions of the Second Supplemental Indenture, a Holder shall have the right, at any time and from time to time, to convert any Note or any portion of the principal amount thereof which is an integral multiple of $1,000, into duly authorized, fully paid and nonassessable shares of Common Stock, at the Conversion Rate in effect at the time of conversion at any time prior to the Close of Business on the Trading Day immediately preceding the Stated Maturity of the Notes, subject to prior redemption or repurchase of the Notes.   Except as provided in clause (b) below, upon any such conversion by a Holder, the Company shall pay to the Holder all accrued and unpaid interest to the date of conversion in cash.
(b)           Upon conversion of a Note during the period from the Close of Business on any Regular Record Date immediately preceding any Interest Payment Date to the Close of Business on the Business Day immediately preceding such Interest Payment Date, the Holder on such Regular Record Date shall receive the interest payable on such Interest Payment Date with respect to the principal amount of the Notes or portions thereof being surrendered for conversion  on such Interest Payment Date rather than upon surrender of the Notes or portions thereof.
 
22
 
(c)           In the event any Notes are called for redemption in accordance with Article IV, a Holder may not convert such Notes at any time after the Close of Business on the second Business Day immediately preceding the Redemption Date fixed for redemption of such Notes or any portion thereof.
(d)           Subject to Sections 6.02, 6.03 and 6.04 of the Second Supplemental Indenture, each Note shall be convertible at the office of the Conversion Agent accompanied by a duly signed and completed Conversion Notice.
(e)           The rate at which shares of Common Stock shall be delivered upon conversion (the ) shall be initially 108.6956 shares of Common Stock for each $1,000 principal amount of Notes (equivalent to an initial conversion price of $9.20 per share of Common Stock), subject to adjustment, in certain circumstances, as provided in Section 6.08 of the Second Supplemental Indenture, and further subject to increase in certain circumstances, as provided in Section 6.07 of the Second Supplemental Indenture.
Conversion Rate
(f)           A Note in respect of which a Holder has delivered a Purchase Notice exercising the option of such Holder to require the Company to purchase such Note shall not be converted.
(g)           If a Holder delivers a Conversion Notice to the Conversion Agent after the Company has delivered its irrevocable notice of redemption pursuant to Section 4.01 of this Second Supplemental Indenture, the Company shall pay to the Holder the amount provided for in Section 6.01(e), together with accrued and unpaid interest on the Notes, and the Make-whole Redemption Payment, if any, with respect to the Notes subject to the Conversion Notice payable in accordance with Section 4.02 of this Second Supplemental Indenture.
(h)           The shares of Common Stock received upon conversion of the Notes shall bear a restrictive legend indicating that such shares may not be sold or otherwise transferred prior to October 1, 2012 except under one of the following circumstances: (1) the Company provides an irrevocable notice of redemption pursuant to Section 4.01 of this Second Supplemental Indenture or (2) in any calendar quarter, the Closing Sale Price of the Common Stock is greater than 120% of the then current Conversion Price (initially $11.04 per share) for at least 20 Trading Days in the 30 consecutive Trading Days ending on the last Trading Day of the preceding calendar quarter.
Section 6.02. .
Conversion Procedures
(a)           To convert a Note that is represented by a Certificated Note, a Holder must (1) complete and manually sign the Notice of Conversion or a facsimile of the Notice of Conversion on the back of the Note in substantially the form set forth in Exhibit A attached hereto (the ) and deliver such Conversion Notice to the Conversion Agent, (2) surrender the Note to the Conversion Agent, (3) if required by the Conversion Agent, furnish appropriate endorsement and transfer documents, and (4) if required, pay all transfer or similar taxes.  To convert a Note represented by a Global Note, a Holder must convert by book-entry transfer to the Conversion Agent through the facilities of the Depository and otherwise comply with the provisions of clauses (3) and (4) above, if applicable.  The date on which the Holder satisfies all of the requirements is the .
Conversion Notice
Conversion Date
 
23
 
(b)           No payment or adjustment shall be made for dividends on, or other distributions with respect to, any Common Stock except as provided in this Article 6.
(c)           If a Holder converts more than one Note at the same time, the number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon the conversion shall be based on the aggregate principal amount of Notes converted.
(d)           Upon surrender of a Note that is converted in part, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder, a new Note equal in principal amount to the principal amount of the unconverted portion of the Notes surrendered without charge to such Holder unless the new Notes are to be registered in a name other than that in which the Notes were originally registered.
 
(e)           If the last day on which a Note may be converted is not a Business Day, the Note may be surrendered for conversion on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day.
(f)           The Company has initially appointed the Trustee as Conversion Agent.  The Company may terminate the appointment of any Conversion Agent or appoint additional or other Conversion Agents.  Notice of any termination or appointment and of any change in the office through which any Conversion Agent will act shall be given in accordance with Section 17.03 of the Indenture.
Section 6.03. .
Settlement upon Conversion
(a)           The Company shall satisfy its obligation to deliver shares of Common Stock at the Conversion Rate upon a conversion (the "Conversion Obligation") by delivery of a number of shares equal to (A) the aggregate principal amount of the Notes to be converted divided by $1,000, multiplied by (B) the then applicable Conversion Rate, plus cash for any fractional shares pursuant to Section 6.04 of the Second Supplemental Indenture
 (b)           The Company shall settle its Conversion Obligations as soon as practicable after delivery of the Conversion Notice to the Conversion Agent.
Section 6.04.  .  The Company shall not issue a fractional share of Common Stock upon conversion of a Note.  The Company shall pay cash for all fractional shares of Common Stock (calculated on an aggregate basis for the Notes surrendered by a Holder for conversion) equal to such fraction multiplied by the Closing Sale Price of the Common Stock on the Trading Day immediately preceding the Conversion Date.
Fractional Shares
Section 6.05.  .  If a Holder converts a Note, the Company shall pay any taxes or duties relating to the issue or delivery of Common Stock upon conversion of the Note.  However, the Holder shall pay any such tax which is due because the Holder requests the shares to be issued in a name other than the Holders name.  The Conversion Agent may refuse to deliver the certificates representing the Common Stock being issued in a name other than the Holders name until the Conversion Agent receives a sum sufficient to pay any tax which will be due because the Common Stock is to be delivered in a name other than the Holders name.  Nothing herein shall preclude any tax withholding required by law or regulations.
Taxes on Conversion
 
24
 
Section 6.06.
Reservation of Shares, Shares to be Fully Paid; Listing of Common Stock.
(a)           The Company shall provide, free from preemptive rights, out of its authorized but unissued shares or shares held in treasury, sufficient shares of Common Stock to provide for the conversion of the Notes from time to time as such Notes are presented for conversion.
(b)           All shares of Common Stock that may be issued upon conversion of Notes shall upon issuance be validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable by the Company and free from all taxes, liens, charges and encumbrances of any kind with respect to the issue thereof.
(c)           The Company shall, if at any time the Common Stock shall be listed on the New York Stock Exchange or any other national securities exchange or automated quotation system, if permitted by the rules of such exchange or automated quotation system, list and keep listed, so long as the Common Stock shall be so listed on such exchange or automated quotation system, all Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Notes; that, if the rules of such exchange or automated quotation system permit the Company to defer the listing of such Common Stock until the first conversion of the Notes into Common Stock in accordance with the provisions of the Second Supplemental Indenture, the Company covenants to list such Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Notes in accordance with the requirements of such exchange or automated quotation system at such time.
provided, however,
(d)           As soon as reasonably practicable after taking any action which causes an adjustment increasing the Conversion Rate to an amount that would cause the Conversion Price to be reduced below the then par value, if any, of the shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Notes, the Company will take all corporate action which may, in the opinion of its counsel, be necessary in order that the Company may validly and legally issue shares of such Common Stock at such adjusted Conversion Rate.
Section 6.07.
Adjustment to the Conversion Rate upon a Designated Event.
(a)           Subject to the terms and conditions of this Section 6.07, if a Designated Event occurs on or prior to January 1, 2011, and a Holder elects to convert its Notes in connection with such Designated Event, the Company shall increase the Conversion Rate for the Notes surrendered for conversion by a number of additional shares of Common Stock (the ), as described in this Section 6.07.  A conversion of Notes shall be deemed for the purposes of this Section 6.07 to be in connection with a Designated Event if such Notes are surrendered for conversion during the period commencing on the effective date of such transaction (the ) and ending on the Purchase Date in connection with such transaction, if applicable or, if there is no Purchase Date, ending on the 30th day following the Effective Date of such transaction.
Make-Whole Shares
Effective Date
If the Company fails to notify Holders as required by Section 5.01 of the Effective Date of any Designated Event within 15 calendar days of such Effective Date, the period during which Holders may surrender their Notes for conversion and receive the relevant Make-Whole Shares will be extended by the number of days that such notification is delayed or not otherwise provided to Holders beyond the specified notice deadline.
 
25
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, no increase in the Conversion Rate shall be made in the case of any Designated Event if at least 90% of the consideration, excluding cash payments for fractional shares of Common Stock and cash payments made pursuant to dissenters appraisal rights, in a transaction otherwise constituting a Designated Event consists of shares of common stock, depositary receipts or other certificates representing common equity interests traded on a U.S. national securities exchange, or will be so traded immediately following such transaction, and as a result of such transaction the Notes become convertible solely into such consideration.
(b)           The Company shall mail a notice to Holders and issue a press release through Dow Jones & Company, Inc. or Bloomberg Business News or other similarly broad public medium that is customary for such press releases no later than 20 days prior to the anticipated Effective Date for such Designated Event. The failure to deliver such notice or issue such press release shall not affect the validity of such transaction.
(c)           The number of Make-Whole Shares shall be determined by reference to the table below in (d)(ii) of this Section and shall be based on the Effective Date and the Applicable Price in connection with such Designated Event.
(d)           (i) The stock prices set forth in the first row of the table below (i.e., the column headers), shall be adjusted as of any date on which the Conversion Rate of the Notes is adjusted.  The adjusted stock prices will equal the Applicable Prices in effect immediately prior to such adjustment multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the adjustment giving rise to the Applicable Price adjustment and the denominator of which is the Conversion Rate as so adjusted.  The number of Make-Whole Shares will be subject to adjustment in the same manner as the Conversion Rate as set forth under Section 6.09 of the Second Supplemental Indenture.
(ii) The following table sets forth the number of Make-Whole Shares to be added to the Conversion Rate per $1,000 principal amount of Notes:
 
 
 
26
 
(e)           If the exact Applicable Price and Effective Date are not set forth in the table above, then:
(i)           if the actual Applicable Price is between two Applicable Prices in the table or the Effective Date is between two Effective Dates in the table, the Make-Whole Shares issued upon conversion of the Notes shall be determined by a straight-line interpolation between the number of Make-Whole Shares set forth for the higher and lower Applicable Prices and/or the earlier and later Effective Dates in the table, based on a 365-day year, as applicable;
(ii)           if the actual Applicable Price is equal to or in excess of $40.00 per share,  subject to adjustment as set forth in Section 6.07(d)(i) of the Second Supplemental Indenture, no Make-Whole Shares shall be issued upon conversion of the Notes; and
(iii)           if the Applicable Price is equal to or less than $8.00 per share, subject to adjustment as set forth in Section 6.07(d)(i) of the Second Supplemental Indenture, no Make-Whole Shares shall be issued upon conversion of the Notes.
(f)           Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event shall the Company increase the Conversion Rate if the increase shall cause the Conversion Rate to exceed 125.0000 shares per $1,000 principal amount of Notes, subject to adjustment in the same manner as the Conversion Rate as set forth in Section 6.08(a)(1) through (a)(4) of the Second Supplemental Indenture.
Section 6.08. .
Conversion Rate Adjustments
 
(a)           The Conversion Rate shall be adjusted for the following events:
(1)           The issuance of Common Stock as a dividend or distribution to all holders of Common Stock, or a subdivision or combination of Common Stock, in which event the Conversion Rate will be adjusted based on the following formula:
where,
Such adjustment shall become effective immediately after the Record Date. If any dividend or distribution or subdivision or combination of the type described in this Section 6.08(a)(1) is declared but not so paid or made, the Conversion Rate shall again be adjusted to the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such dividend or distribution or subdivision or combination had not been declared.
 
27
 
(2)           The issuance to all holders of Common Stock of rights or warrants entitling them for a period expiring 60 days or less from the date of issuance of such rights or warrants to purchase shares of Common Stock (or securities convertible into Common Stock) at less than (or having a conversion price per share less than) the Current Market Price of Common Stock, in which event the Conversion Rate will be adjusted based on the following formula:
 
where,
Such adjustment shall become effective immediately after the Record Date for such distribution.  In the event that such rights or warrants are not so distributed, the Conversion Rate shall again be adjusted to be the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if the Record Date for such distribution had not occurred.  To the extent that such rights or warrants are not exercised prior to their expiration or shares of Common Stock are otherwise not delivered pursuant to such rights or warrants upon the expiration or termination of such rights or warrants, the Conversion Rate shall be readjusted to the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect had the adjustments made upon the issuance of such rights or warrants been made on the basis of the delivery of only the number of shares of Common Stock actually delivered.  In determining the aggregate price payable for such shares of Common Stock, there shall be taken into account any consideration received for such rights or warrants and the value of such consideration if other than Cash, to be determined in good faith by the Board of Directors.
(3)           The dividend or other distribution to all holders of Common Stock of shares of the Companys Capital Stock (other than Common Stock) or evidences of the Companys indebtedness, rights or warrants to purchase the Companys securities, or the Companys assets (excluding any dividend, distribution or issuance covered by clauses (1) or (2) above or (4) or (5) below), in which event the Conversion Rate will be adjusted based on the following formula:
 
28
 
where,
If the transaction that gives rise to an adjustment pursuant to this clause (3) is, however, one pursuant to which the payment of a dividend or other distribution on Common Stock consists of shares of capital stock of, or similar equity interests in, a subsidiary of the Company or other business unit of the Company (, a spin-off) that are, or, when issued, will be, traded or quoted on The New York Stock Exchange or any other national or regional securities exchange or market, then the Conversion Rate will instead be adjusted based on the following formula:
i.e.
 
where,
Such increase shall become effective immediately after the Record Date for such dividend or distribution. In the event that such dividend or distribution is not so made, the Conversion Rate shall again be adjusted to be the Conversion Rate which would then be in effect if such distribution had not been declared.
(4)           Dividends or other distributions consisting exclusively of cash to all holders of Common Stock, in which event the Conversion Rate will be adjusted based on the following formula:
 
29
 
where,
Such adjustment shall become effective immediately after the Record Date for such dividend or distribution. In the event that such dividend or distribution is not so made, the Conversion Rate shall again be adjusted to be the Conversion Rate which would then be in effect if such dividend or distribution had not been declared.
(5)           The Company or one or more subsidiaries of the Company make purchases of Common Stock pursuant to a tender offer or exchange offer (other than offers not subject to Rule 13e-4 under the Exchange Act) by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company for the Common Stock to the extent that the cash and value of any other consideration included in the payment per share of Common Stock validly tendered or exchanged exceeds the Closing Sale Price per share of Common Stock on the Trading Day next succeeding the last date on which tenders or exchanges may be made pursuant to such tender or exchange offer (the expiration date), in which event the Conversion Rate will be adjusted based on the following formula:
where,
An adjustment, if any, to the Conversion Rate pursuant to this Section 6.08(a)(5) shall become effective immediately prior to the opening of business on the Trading Day immediately following the expiration date.  In the event that the Company or a subsidiary of the Company is obligated to purchase shares of Common Stock pursuant to any such tender offer or exchange offer, but the Company or such subsidiary is permanently prevented by applicable law from effecting any such purchases, or all such purchases are rescinded, then the Conversion Rate shall again be adjusted to be the Conversion Rate which would then be in effect if such tender offer or exchange offer had not been made. Except as set forth in the preceding sentence, if the application of this Section 6.08(a)(5) to any tender offer or exchange offer would result in a decrease in the Conversion Rate, no adjustment shall be made for such tender offer or exchange offer under this Section 6.08(a)(5).
 
30
 
(b)           In no event will the Company adjust the Conversion Rate to the extent that the adjustment would reduce the Conversion Price below the par value per share of Common Stock.
(c)           Whenever any provision of the Second Supplemental Indenture shall require the calculation of an average of Closing Sale Prices over a span of multiple days, the Company shall in good faith make appropriate adjustments to account for any adjustment to the Conversion Rate that becomes effective, or any event requiring an adjustment to the Conversion Rate where the Ex Date of the event occurs, at any time during the period from which the average is to be calculated.
(d)           Rights or warrants distributed by the Company to all holders of Common Stock entitling the holders thereof to subscribe for or purchase shares of the Companys Capital Stock (either initially or under certain circumstances), which rights or warrants, until the occurrence of a specified event or events (): (i) are deemed to be transferred with such shares of Common Stock; (ii) are not exercisable; and (iii) are also issued in respect of future issuances of Common Stock, shall be deemed not to have been distributed for purposes of Section 6.08 of the Second Supplemental Indenture (and no adjustment to the Conversion Rate under Section 6.08 of the Second Supplemental Indenture will be required) until the occurrence of the earliest Trigger Event, whereupon such rights and warrants shall be deemed to have been distributed and an appropriate adjustment (if any is required) to the Conversion Rate shall be made under Section 6.08 of the Second Supplemental Indenture, except as set forth in Section 6.08(e) of the Second Supplemental Indenture. If any such right or warrant is subject to events, upon the occurrence of which such rights or warrants become exercisable to purchase different securities, evidences of indebtedness or other assets, then the date of the occurrence of any and each such event shall be deemed to be the date of distribution and Record Date with respect to new rights or warrants with such rights, except as set forth in Section 6.08(e) of the Second Supplemental Indenture. In addition, except as set forth in Section 6.08(e) of the Second Supplemental Indenture, in the event of any distribution (or deemed distribution) of rights or warrants, or any Trigger Event or other event (of the type described in the preceding sentence) with respect thereto that was counted for purposes of calculating a distribution amount for which an adjustment to the Conversion Rate under Section 6.08 of the Second Supplemental Indenture was made (including any adjustment contemplated in Section 6.08(e) of the Second Supplemental Indenture), (1) in the case of any such rights or warrants that shall all have been redeemed or repurchased without exercise by the holders thereof, the Conversion Rate shall be readjusted upon such final redemption or repurchase to give effect to such distribution or Trigger Event, as the case may be, as though it were a Cash distribution, equal to the per share redemption or repurchase price received by a holder or holders of Common Stock with respect to such rights or warrants (assuming such holder had retained such rights or warrants), made to all holders of Common Stock as of the date of such redemption or repurchase, and (2) in the case of such rights or warrants that shall have expired or been terminated without exercise by the holders thereof, the Conversion Rate shall be readjusted as if such rights and warrants had not been issued.
Trigger Event
 
31
 
(e)           If a shareholders rights plan under which any rights are issued provides that each share of Common Stock issued upon conversion of Notes at any time prior to the distribution of separate certificates representing such rights shall be entitled to receive such rights, there shall not be any adjustments to the conversion privilege or Conversion Rate.  If prior to any conversion of a Note, the rights have separated from the Common Stock, the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted at the time of separation as if the Company distributed to all holders of Common Stock, the Companys assets, debt securities or rights as described in clause (a)(3) above, subject to readjustment in the event of the expiration, termination or redemption of such rights.
(f)           No adjustment shall be made in the Conversion Rate for any of the transactions described in this Section 6.08 if the Company makes provisions for Holders to participate in any such transaction without conversion on a basis and with notice that the Board of Directors determines in good faith to be fair and appropriate.
(g)           Except in accordance with this Section 6.08, the Conversion Rate will not be adjusted for the issuance of Common Stock or any securities convertible into or exchangeable for Common Stock or carrying the right to purchase any of the foregoing. No adjustment to the Conversion Rate shall be made for a change in the par value or no par value of the Common Stock or any rights to purchase Common Stock pursuant to a Company plan for reinvestment of dividends.
(h)           Notwithstanding anything in this Section 6.08 to the contrary, the conversion rate as adjusted in accordance with this Section 6.08 shall not exceed 125.0000 shares per $1,000 principal amount of Notes, other than on account of proportional adjustments to the Conversion Rate in the manner set forth in clauses (a)(1) through (a)(4) of Section 6.08 of the Second Supplemental Indenture.
(i)           For purposes of Section 6.08(a)(1), (2) and (3) of the Second Supplemental Indenture, any dividend or distribution to which Section 6.08(a)(3) of the Second Supplemental Indenture is applicable that also includes shares of Common Stock, or rights or warrants to subscribe for or purchase shares of Common Stock (or both), shall be deemed instead to be (1) a dividend or distribution of the indebtedness, assets or shares of Capital Stock other than such shares of Common Stock or rights or warrants (and any Conversion Rate adjustment required by Section 6.08(a)(3) of the Second Supplemental Indenture with respect to such dividend or distribution shall then be made) immediately followed by (2) a dividend or distribution of such shares of Common Stock or such rights or warrants (and any further Conversion Rate adjustment required by Section 6.08 of the Second Supplemental Indenture with respect to such dividend or distribution shall then be made), except any shares of Common Stock included in such dividend or distribution shall not be deemed outstanding at the Close of Business on the Record Date.
 
32
 
(j)           No adjustment shall be made to the Conversion Rate unless the adjustment would result in a change of at least 1% of the Conversion Rate; that any adjustments that are less than 1% of the Conversion Rate shall be carried forward and such carried forward adjustments, regardless of whether the aggregate adjustment is less than 1%, shall be made (a) annually, on the anniversary of the first date of issue of the Notes and otherwise (b) (i) five Business Days prior to the Stated Maturity of the Notes or (ii) five Business Days prior to the Redemption Date or Purchase Date, unless such adjustment has already been made.
provided
(k)           The Company may from time to time, to the extent permitted by law and subject to applicable rules of The New York Stock Exchange, increase the Conversion Rate of the Notes by any amount for any period of at least 20 days.  Whenever the Conversion Rate is increased pursuant to the preceding sentence, the Company shall mail to Holders at least 15 days prior to the date the increased Conversion Rate takes effect, and such notice shall state the increased Conversion Rate and the period during which it will be in effect.
(l)           The Company may make such increases in the Conversion Rate, in addition to those set forth above, as the Companys Board of Directors deems advisable, including to avoid or diminish any income tax to holders of the Common Stock resulting from any dividend or distribution of stock (or rights to acquire stock) or from any event treated as such for income tax purposes.
(m)           For purposes of this Section 6.08, the number of shares of Common Stock at any time outstanding shall not include shares held, directly or indirectly, by the Company, but shall include shares issuable in respect of scrip certificates issued in lieu of fractions of shares of Common Stock.
(n)           In any case in which this Section 6.08 provides that an adjustment shall become effective immediately after (1) a Record Date for an event or (2) the Expiration Date for any tender or exchange offer pursuant to Section 6.08(a)(5) of the Second Supplemental Indenture (each a ), the Company may elect to defer, until the later of the date the adjustment to the Conversion Rate can be definitively determined and the occurrence of the applicable Adjustment Event (as hereinafter defined), (x) issuing to the Holder of any Note converted after such Determination Date and before the occurrence of such Adjustment Event, the additional shares of Common Stock or other securities or assets issuable upon such conversion, or cash in lieu thereof, by reason of the adjustment required by such Adjustment Event over and above the Common Stock issuable upon such conversion, or cash in lieu thereof, before giving effect to such adjustment and (y) paying to such Holder any amount in cash in lieu of any fraction pursuant to Section 6.04 of the Second Supplemental Indenture. For purposes of this Section 6.08(n), the term  shall mean:
Determination Date
Adjustment Event
(i)           in any case referred to in clause (1) hereof, the occurrence of such event, and
(ii)           in any case referred to in clause (2) hereof, the date a sale or exchange of Common Stock pursuant to such tender or exchange offer is consummated and becomes irrevocable.
 
33
 
Section 6.09
Effect of Recapitalization, Reclassification and Changes to the  Common Stock.
If any of the following events occur:
(i)           any recapitalization,
(ii)           any reclassification or change of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (other than changes resulting from a subdivision or combination to which Section 6.08(a)(1) of the Second Supplemental Indenture applies),
(iii)           any consolidation, merger or combination involving the Company,
(iv)           any sale or conveyance to a third party of all or substantially all of the Companys assets, or
(v)           any statutory share exchange,
in each case as a result of which the Common Stock would be converted into, or exchanged for, stock, other securities, other property or assets (including cash or any combination thereof), then, at the effective time of the transaction, the Company or the successor or purchasing Person, as the case may be, shall execute with the Trustee a supplemental indenture (which shall comply with the Trust Indenture Act as in force at the date of execution of such supplemental indenture if such supplemental indenture is then required to so comply) providing that the right to convert a Note shall be changed into a right to convert such Note into the kind and amount of shares of stock, other securities or other property or assets (including cash or any combination thereof) that a holder of a share of Common Stock would have owned or been entitled to receive (the Reference Property) upon such transaction.  In the event holders of Common Stock have the opportunity to elect the form of consideration to be received in such transaction, the type and amount of consideration that Holders of Notes would have been entitled to receive shall be deemed to be the weighted average of the types and amounts of consideration received by the holders of Common Stock. The Company hereby agrees not to become a party to any such transaction unless its terms are consistent with the foregoing. Such supplemental indenture shall provide for adjustments which shall be as nearly equivalent as may be practicable to the adjustments provided for in this Article 6.  If the Reference Property includes shares of stock or other securities and assets of a Person other than the successor or purchasing Person, as the case may be, in such reclassification, consolidation, merger, combination, sale or conveyance, then the Company shall use commercially reasonable efforts to cause such supplemental indenture to be executed by such other Person and such supplemental indenture shall contain such additional provisions to protect the interests of the Holders of the Notes as the Board of Directors of the Company shall reasonably consider necessary by reason of the foregoing, including to the extent required by the Board of Directors and practicable the provisions providing for the repurchase rights set forth in Article V herein.
In the event the Company shall execute a supplemental indenture pursuant to this Section 6.09, the Company shall promptly file with the Trustee an Officers Certificate briefly stating the reasons therefor, the kind or amount of cash, securities or property or asset that will comprise the Reference Property after any such transaction, any adjustment to be made with respect thereto and that all conditions precedent have been complied with.  The Company shall cause notice of the execution of such supplemental indenture to be mailed to each Holder of Notes, at its address appearing on the Security Register for the Notes, within twenty (20) business days after execution thereof. Failure to deliver such notice shall not affect the legality or validity of such supplemental indenture.
 
34
 
The above provisions of this Section 6.09 shall similarly apply to successive reclassifications, changes, consolidations, mergers, binding share exchanges, combinations, sales and transfers.
If this Section 6.09 applies to any event or occurrence, Section 6.08 of the Second Supplemental Indenture shall not apply.
Section 6.10. . Whenever the Conversion Rate is adjusted, the Company shall promptly mail to Holders a notice of the adjustment. The Company shall file with the Trustee and the Conversion Agent such notice and an Officers Certificate briefly stating the facts requiring the adjustment and the manner of computing it. The certificate shall be conclusive evidence that the adjustment is correct, and neither the Trustee nor the Conversion Agent shall be deemed to have any knowledge of any adjustments unless and until it has received such certificate.  Neither the Trustee nor any Conversion Agent shall be under any duty or responsibility with respect to any such certificate except to exhibit the same to any Holder desiring inspection thereof.
Notice of Adjustment
Section 6.11. . The Company shall be responsible for making all calculations called for hereunder and under the Notes. These calculations include, but are not limited to, the Conversion Date, the Current Market Value, the Conversion Price, the applicable Conversion Rate, and the number of shares of Common Stock, if any, to be issued upon conversion of the Notes. The Company shall make all these calculations in good faith and, absent manifest error, the Companys calculations will be final and binding on Holders. The Company shall provide a schedule of the Companys calculations to the Trustee, and the Trustee is entitled to rely upon the accuracy of the Companys calculations without independent verification.
Company Determination Final
Section 6.12. . The Trustee has no duty to determine when an adjustment under this Article 6 should be made, how it should be made or what it should be nor shall the Trustee have any duty or responsibility to confirm or verify any calculation called for hereunder or under the Notes. The Trustee has no duty to determine whether a supplemental indenture under Section 6.09 of the Second Supplemental Indenture need be entered into or whether any provisions of any supplemental indenture are correct. The Trustee shall not be accountable for and makes no representation as to the validity or value of any securities or assets issued upon conversion of Notes. The Trustee shall not be responsible for the Companys failure to comply with this Article 6. Each Conversion Agent shall have the same protection under this Section 6.12 as the Trustee.
Trustees Adjustment Disclaimer
Section 6.13. . The Company may, at its option, set-off withholding taxes due with respect to Notes against payments of Cash and Common Stock on the Notes to the extent required by law. In the case of any such set-off against Common Stock delivered upon conversion of the Notes, such Common Stock shall be valued at the Closing Sale Price of the Common Stock on the date of setoff.
Withholding Taxes for Adjustments in Conversion Rate
 
35
 
Section 7.01.  Other than Permitted Liens (as defined below), the Company shall not at any time have outstanding more than $20,485,000,000 principal amount of indebtedness for borrowed money secured on a first lien basis with its assets nor more than $4,000,000,000 principal amount of indebtedness for borrowed money secured on a second lien basis with its assets.  "Permitted Liens" for purposes hereof shall mean:
(a) liens for taxes, assessments, governmental charges and utility charges, in each case that are not yet subject to penalties for non-payment or that are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings; that adequate reserves with respect thereto are maintained on the books of the Company in conformity with United States generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP");
provided
 
(b) carriers, warehousemens, mechanics, materialmens, repairmens, construction or other like liens arising in the ordinary course of business;
 
(c) permits, servitudes, licenses, easements, rights-of-way, restrictions and other similar encumbrances imposed by applicable law or incurred in the ordinary course of business or
minor imperfections in title to real property that do not in the aggregate materially interfere with the ordinary conduct of the business of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole;
 
(d) leases, licenses, subleases or sublicenses of assets (including, without limitation, real property and intellectual property rights) granted to others that do not in the aggregate materially interfere with the ordinary conduct of the business of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole and licenses of trademarks and intellectual property rights in the ordinary course of business;
 
(e) pledges or deposits made in the ordinary course of business or statutory liens imposed in connection with workers compensation, unemployment insurance or other types of social security or pension benefits or liens incurred or pledges or deposits made to secure the performance of bids, tenders, sales, contracts (other than for the repayment of borrowed money), statutory obligations, and surety, appeal, customs or performance bonds and similar obligations, or deposits as security for contested taxes or import or customs duties or for the payment of rent, in each case incurred in the ordinary course of business;
 
(f) liens arising from UCC financing statement filings (or similar filings) regarding or otherwise arising under leases entered into by the Company or any of its subsidiaries or in connection with sales of accounts, payment intangibles,
 chattel paper or instruments;
 
36
 
(g) purchase money liens on property (other than shares of capital stock or indebtedness) existing at the time of acquisition (including acquisition through amalgamation, merger or consolidation) or to secure the payment of any part of the purchase price thereof or to secure any indebtedness incurred prior to, at the time of, or within 60 days after, the acquisition of such property for the purpose of financing all or any part of the purchase price thereof or to secure indebtedness provided, or guaranteed, by a governmental authority to finance research and development, limited in each case to the property purchased (or developed) with the proceeds thereof;
 
(h) other than liens existing pursuant to the Credit Agreement and the Loan Documents (as defined therein), liens in existence on the Closing Date (as defined in that certain Note Purchase Agreement dated as of April 1, 2008 by and among the Company, Ford  UAW Holdings LLC, and the Subsidiary Guarantors named therein); that no such lien is spread to cover any additional property after the Closing Date and that  the amount of indebtedness for borrowed money secured thereby is not increased;
provided
(i) liens on property or capital stock of a person at the time such person becomes a subsidiary of the Company; , that such liens are not created, incurred or assumed in connection with, or in contemplation of, such other person becoming a subsidiary; , , that any such lien may not extend to any other property owned by the Company or any subsidiary of the Company;
provided
however
provided
further
however
(j) liens on property at the time the Company acquires the property, including any acquisition by means of a merger or consolidation with or into the Company; , , that such liens are not created, incurred or assumed in connection with, or in contemplation of, such acquisition; , , that such liens may not extend to any other property owned by the Company or any subsidiary of the Company;
provided
however
provided
further
however
 
(k) any lien securing the renewal, refinancing, replacing, refunding, amendment, extension or modification, as a whole or in part, of any indebtedness secured by any lien permitted by clause (g), (h), (i), (j), and (u) of this definition or this paragraph (k) without any change in the assets subject to such lien;
 
(l) any lien arising out of claims under a judgment or award rendered or claim filed, so long as such judgments, awards or claims do not constitute an event of default under the Credit Agreement;
 
(m) any lien consisting of rights reserved to or vested in any governmental authority by any statutory provision;
 
(n) liens created in the ordinary course of business in favor of banks and other financial institutions over credit balances of any bank accounts held at such banks or financial institutions or over investment property held in a securities account, as the case may be, to facilitate the operation of cash pooling and/or interest set-off arrangements in respect of such bank accounts or securities accounts in the ordinary course of business;
 
37
 
(o) liens in favor of lessors pursuant to sale and leaseback transactions to the extent the disposition of the asset subject to any such sale and leaseback transaction is permitted under the Credit Agreement;
(p) liens under industrial revenue, municipal or similar bonds;
(q) liens on securities accounts (other than liens to secure indebtedness for borrowed money);
 
(r) statutory liens incurred or pledges or deposits made in favor of a governmental authority to secure the performance of obligations of the Company or any of its subsidiaries under environmental laws to which any assets of the Company or any such subsidiaries are subject;
(s) liens granted by the Company or any of its subsidiaries to a landlord to secure the payment of arrears of rent in respect of leased properties, provided that any such lien is limited to the assets located at or about such leased properties;
 
in the Province of Quebec leased from such landlord
(t) servicing agreements, development agreements, site plan agreements and other agreements with governmental authorities pertaining to the use or development of any of the property and assets of the Company consisting of real property, the same are complied with; and
provided
(u) liens not otherwise permitted by the foregoing clauses securing obligations or other liabilities of the Company; that the outstanding amount of all such obligations and liabilities shall not exceed $500,000,000 at any time.
provided
Section 8.01.The Second Supplemental Indenture is executed by the Company, and by the Trustee upon the Companys request, pursuant to the provisions of Section 9.01 of the Indenture, and the terms and conditions hereof shall be deemed to be part of the Indenture for all purposes.  The Indenture, as supplemented and amended by the Second Supplemental Indenture, is in all respects hereby adopted, ratified and confirmed.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, to the extent that any of the terms of the Second Supplemental Indenture are inconsistent with, or conflict with, the terms of the Indenture, the terms of the Second Supplemental Indenture shall govern.
   
Section 8.02. The Second Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, but such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
   
 
38
 
Section 8.03.The Trustee assumes no responsibility for the correctness of the recitals herein contained, which shall be taken as the statements of the Company.  The Trustee makes no representations and shall have no responsibility as to the validity or sufficiency of the Second Supplemental Indenture or the due authorization and execution hereof by the Company.
   
Section 8.04.The Second Supplemental Indenture and each Note shall be deemed to be a contract made under the laws of the State of New York and for all purposes shall be governed and construed in accordance with the laws of said state, without regard to its principles of conflict of laws.
   
Section 8.05. The Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee as on the date of the Second Supplemental Indenture is:
   
101 Barclay Street, Floor 8 West
New York, New York 10286
Attention: Corporate Trust Administration.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused the Second Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized as of the day and year first above written.
 
39
 
Exhibit A
THIS SECURITY AND THE COMMON STOCK INTO WHICH THIS SECURITY IS CONVERTIBLE HAVE NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), OR ANY STATE SECURITIES LAWS.  NEITHER THIS SECURITY, THE COMMON STOCK INTO WHICH THIS SECURITY IS CONVERTIBLE NOR ANY INTEREST OR PARTICIPATION HEREIN OR THEREIN MAY BE REOFFERED, SOLD, ASSIGNED, TRANSFERRED, PLEDGED, ENCUMBERED OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR UNLESS SUCH TRANSACTION IS EXEMPT FROM, OR NOT SUBJECT TO, SUCH REGISTRATION.
THE HOLDER OF THIS SECURITY, BY ITS ACCEPTANCE HEREOF, AGREES TO OFFER, SELL OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER THIS SECURITY AND THE COMMON STOCK INTO WHICH THIS SECURITY IS CONVERTIBLE, PRIOR TO THE DATE (THE "RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE") WHICH IS ONE YEAR AFTER THE LAST DATE ON WHICH THE COMPANY OR ANY AFFILIATE OF THE COMPANY WAS THE OWNER OF THIS SECURITY (OR ANY PREDECESSOR OF SUCH SECURITY) ONLY: (A) TO THE COMPANY OR ANY SUBSIDIARY THEREOF (B) TO A PERSON IT REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A "QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER" AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT THAT PURCHASES FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER TO WHICH NOTICE IS GIVEN THAT THE TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN RELIANCE ON RULE 144A, (C) PURSUANT TO A REGISTRATION STATEMENT WHICH HAS BEEN DECLARED EFFECTIVE UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (D) FROM FORD  UAW HOLDINGS LLC (THE INITIAL HOLDER HEREOF) TO THE NEW VEBA (AS DEFINED HEREIN) OR (E)PURSUANT TO ANOTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT, INCLUDING RULE 144, IF AVAILABLE, SUBJECT TO THE [TRUSTEE'S AND THE] COMPANY'S RIGHT PRIOR TO ANY SUCH OFFER, SALE OR TRANSFER PURSUANT TO CLAUSE (D) TO, PRIOR TO THE RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE, REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF AN OPINION OF COUNSEL, CERTIFICATION AND/OR OTHER INFORMATION SATISFACTORY TO [IT][EACH OF THEM], AND IN EACH OF THE FOREGOING CASES, A CERTIFICATE OF TRANSFER [IN THE FORM APPEARING ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THIS SECURITY] IS COMPLETED AND DELIVERED BY THE TRANSFEROR TO THE COMPANY [AND THE TRUSTEE].  THIS LEGEND WILL BE REMOVED UPON THE REQUEST OF THE HOLDER AFTER THE RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE.
[EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE PROVIDED IN SECTION 2.05 OF THE INDENTURE, THIS SECURITY MAY BE TRANSFERRED, IN WHOLE BUT NOT IN PART, ONLY TO ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY OR TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITORY OR TO A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR DEPOSITORY]
1
[Unless this Certificate is presented by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company, a New York corporation (DTC or the Depository), to the Company (as defined below) or its agent for registration of transfer, exchange or payment, and any certificate issued is registered in the name of Cede & Co. or in such other name as is requested by an authorized representative of DTC (and any payment is made to Cede & Co. or to such other entity as is requested by an authorized representative of DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL inasmuch as the registered owner hereof, Cede & Co., has an interest herein.]
1
1.            This legend applies only to a Global Note.
 
 
CUSIP No. [              ]
ISIN US [                  ]
FORD MOTOR COMPANY, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (herein called the Company, which term includes any successor corporation under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to [                                 ], or registered assigns, the principal sum of [                                 ] ($[                       ]) on January 1, 2013, or such lesser amount as may be indicated on Schedule A hereto, unless earlier redeemed, purchased, repurchased or converted as herein provided, and to pay interest thereon from January 1, 2008, or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually on January 1 and July 1 of each year, commencing July 1, 2008, at the rate of 5.75% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment or converted.  The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in the Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the Close of Business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be December 15 or June 15 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date.  Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the Close of Business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof to be given to Holders of Securities of this series not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities of this series may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture.
Interest on this Security shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year comprised of twelve 30-day months.  If interest or principal is payable on a day that is not a Business Day, the Company shall make the payment on the next Business Day, and no interest will accrue as a result of the delay in payment.
Payment of the principal of (and premium, if any, on) and any such interest on this Security will be made at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in the Borough of Manhattan, the City and State of New York in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts and in immediately available funds; , , that each installment of interest on this Security may, at the option of the Company, be paid by mailing a check for such interest, payable to or upon the written order of the Person entitled thereto, to the address of such Person as it appears on the Security Register or by wire transfer to an account of the Person entitled thereto as such account shall be provided to the Security Registrar and shall appear on the Security Register.
provided
however
 
 
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
This Security shall be deemed to be a contract made under the laws of the State of New York, and for all purposes shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of said State, without regard to its principles of conflicts of laws.
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Global Security to be signed by its Chairman of the Board, or its President, or one of its Executive Vice Presidents, or one of its Group Vice Presidents, or one of its Vice Presidents, and by its Treasurer or one of its Assistant Treasurers, or its Secretary or one of its Assistant Secretaries, manually or in facsimile, and a facsimile of its corporate seal to be imprinted hereon.
Dated:
[Corporate Seal]
 
 
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
Dated:
 
 
1.             
Indenture
This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company, designated as its 5.75% Senior Convertible Notes due 2013 (herein called the Securities), issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture, dated as of January 30, 2002 (herein called the Indenture), between the Company and The Bank of New York (as successor trustee to JPMorgan Chase Bank), as Trustee (herein called the Trustee, which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture with respect to the series of which this Security is a part), as supplemented by the Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of January 1, 2008 (the Supplemental Indenture), between the Company and the Trustee, to which Indenture, the Supplemental Indenture and all other indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee, and the Holders of the Securities and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered.  This Security is a Global Security of the series designated on the face hereof, initially limited in aggregate principal amount to
$[                             ].  All terms used in this Global Security which are defined in the Indenture or the Supplemental Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture or the Supplemental Indenture, as applicable.  In the event of any inconsistency between the Indenture and the Supplemental Indenture, the Supplemental Indenture shall govern.
The Company may, without the consent of the Holders hereof, issue additional securities having the same ranking and the same interest rate, maturity, conversion rate and other terms as the Securities.  Any additional securities will, together with the Securities, constitute a single series under the Indenture.  No additional securities may be issued as part of the same series if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing with respect to the Securities.
2.             
Paying Agent, Conversion Agent and Security Registrar
Initially, the Trustee will act as Paying Agent, Conversion Agent and Security Registrar. The Company may appoint and change any Paying Agent, Conversion Agent, Security Registrar or co-registrar without notice, other than notice to the Trustee. The Company or any of its Subsidiaries or any of their Affiliates may act as Paying Agent, Conversion Agent, Security Registrar or co-registrar. The Company may maintain deposit accounts and conduct other banking transactions with the Trustee in the normal course of business.
3.             
Redemption at the Option of the Company
The Securities of this series are subject to redemption upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior notice given in the manner provided in the Indenture and the Supplemental Indenture on January 1, 2011 or on any Business Day thereafter at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount to be redeemed together with (i) accrued and unpaid interest thereon, up to, but not including, the Redemption Date, but interest installments whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to such Redemption Date will be payable to the Holders of such Securities, or one or more Predecessor Securities, of record at the Close of Business on the relevant Regular Record Dates referred to on the face hereof, all as provided in the Indenture and the Supplemental Indenture, and (ii) the Make-whole Redemption Payment, if any, payable in accordance with Section 4.02 of the Supplemental Indenture.
 
 
In the event of redemption of this Security in part only, a new Security or Securities of this series for the unredeemed portion hereof will be issued in the name of the Holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof.
4.             
Repurchase at the Option of the Holder upon the Occurrence of a Designated Event
Subject to the terms and conditions of the Supplemental Indenture, if there shall have occurred a Designated Event, each Holder shall have the right, at such Holders option, to require the Company to purchase for shares of Common Stock (or such other consideration into which the shares of Common Stock have been converted or exchanged in connection with such Designated Event) all or any portion of such Holders Securities not previously repurchased or called for redemption in integral multiples of $1,000 principal amount on a date selected by the Company as specified in Article Five of the Supplemental Indenture, at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Securities to be purchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but not including, the Purchase Date, as set forth, and subject to satisfaction by or on behalf of the Holder of the requirements set forth, in Article Five of the Supplemental Indenture.
5.             
Repurchase at the Option of the Holder upon a Change in Control
Subject to the terms and conditions of the Supplemental Indenture, if there shall have occurred a Change in Control, each Holder shall have the right, at such Holders option, to require the Company to purchase for cash all or any portion of such Holders Securities not previously repurchased or called for redemption in integral multiples of $1,000 principal amount on a date selected by the Company as specified in Article Five of the Supplemental Indenture, at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Securities to be purchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but not including, the Purchase Date, as set forth, and subject to satisfaction by or on behalf of the Holder of the requirements set forth, in Article Five of the Supplemental Indenture.
6.             
Conversion
Subject to the terms of the Supplemental Indenture, the Holder of this Security may, at any time and from time to time, convert this Security or any portion of the principal amount hereof that is in an integral multiple of $1,000 into shares of Common Stock at the Conversion Rate (initially 108.6956 shares of Common Stock for each $1,000 principal amount of Securities, subject to adjustment in certain instances as provided in Section 6.08 of the Supplemental Indenture, and further subject to increases in certain instances, as provided in Section 6.07 of the Supplemental Indenture) as provided in Article Six of the Supplemental Indenture.  The Conversion Rate for the Securities on any Conversion Date shall be determined as set forth in the Supplemental Indenture. Upon conversion of this Security, the Company shall, subject to the terms of the Supplemental Indenture, deliver the Common Stock within the time periods set forth in Section 6.03 of the Supplemental Indenture.
 
 
No fractional shares will be issued upon conversion of a Security; the Company shall deliver cash in lieu of any fractional share of Common Stock as provided in Section 6.04 of the Supplemental Indenture.
To convert a Security, a Holder must fulfill the conditions set forth in Section 6.02 of the Supplemental Indenture.
The Conversion Rate will be adjusted as set forth in Article Six of the Supplemental Indenture.
If a Holder delivers a Conversion Notice to the Conversion Agent after the Company has delivered its irrevocable notice of redemption pursuant to Section 4.01 of the Supplemental Indenture, the Company shall pay to the Holder the Make-whole Redemption Payment, if any, with respect to the Notes subject to the Conversion Notice payable in cash in accordance with Section 4.02 of the Supplemental Indenture.
The Common Stock received upon conversion of this Security shall bear a restrictive legend indicating that such shares may not be sold or otherwise transferred prior to October 1, 2012 except under one of the following circumstances: (1) the Company provides an irrevocable notice of redemption pursuant to Section 4.01 of the Supplemental Indenture or (2) if in any calendar quarter, the Closing Sale Price of the Common Stock is greater than 120% of the then current Conversion Price (initially $11.04 per share) for at least 20 Trading Days in the 30 consecutive Trading Days ending on the last Trading Day of the preceding calendar quarter.
7.             
Event of Default
If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Securities of this series may be declared, or in certain cases become, due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture and the Supplemental Indenture.
8.             
Amendment and Wavier
The Indenture and Supplemental Indenture permit, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of this series under the Indenture and the Supplemental Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of this series.  The Indenture and Supplemental Indenture also contain provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of this series, on behalf of the Holders of all Outstanding Securities of this series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and Supplemental Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and Supplemental Indenture and their consequences.  Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.  The Company and the Trustee may amend the Indenture and the Supplemental Indenture under certain circumstances without the consent of the Holders, as described in the Indenture and the Supplemental Indenture.
 
 
No reference herein to the Indenture or the Supplemental Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture or Supplemental Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the amount of principal of (and premium, if any, on) and interest, if any, on this Security herein provided, and at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
9.             
Miscellaneous
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, particularly the limitation set forth in Section 2.05(b) of the Indenture, the transfer of this Security is registrable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in any place where the principal of (and premium, if any, on) and interest, if any, on this Security are payable, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities of this series, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
 
 
Principal amount outstanding as of January 1, 2008:
 
__________________
Thereafter, the following exchanges of a part of this Note in definitive form for an interest in another Note in definitive form, or exchanges of a part of another Note in definitive form for an interest in this Note in definitive form, or for Notes in Global form, have been made:
 
 
 
To assign this Security, fill in the form below:
For value received the undersigned registered holder hereby sell(s) assign(s) and transfer(s) unto ___________________________________ (Please insert social security or other Taxpayer Identification Number of assignee) the within Security and all rights thereunder, and hereby irrevocably constitutes and appoints ______________________________________ attorney to transfer said Security on the books of Ford Motor Company (the ), with full power of substitution in the premises.
Issuer
In connection with any transfer of the Securities prior to the expiration of the holding period applicable to sales thereof under Rule 144 under the Securities Act (or any successor provision), the undersigned confirms that such Security is being transferred:
.
Unless one of the boxes is checked, the Trustee or Registrar will refuse to register any of the Securities evidenced by this certificate in the name of any person other than the registered holder thereof
 
 
 
and irrevocably appoint __________________________________________________ agent to transfer this Security on the books of the Company.  The agent may substitute another to act for him or her.
 
USE THE FOLLOWING ONLY FOR GLOBAL BOOK ENTRY DTC PARTICIPANTS
Please designate your DTC Participants name and Participant Number and provide contact information below:
Name of DTC Participant: ____________________________________________
DTC Participant Number: _________________________
Client Reference No.( optional): _________________________________________
DTC Participant Contact Information
Name:  _________________________________________________________
Telephone No.:  ____________________________      Facsimile No.: ____________________________
Email: _______________________________________
Date: ___________________________________________
 
Your Signature: _____________________________________________
(Sign exactly as your name appears on the other side of this Security or as an authorized DTC Participant representative)
*Signature guaranteed by:____________________________________
 
The signature must be guaranteed by an institution which is a member of one of the following recognized signature guaranty programs: (i) the Securities Transfer Agent Medallion Program (STAMP), (ii) the New York Stock Exchange Medallion Program (MSP); (iii) the Stock Exchange Medallion Program (SEMP); or (iv) such other guaranty program acceptable to the Trustee.
 
 
THE BANK OF NEW YORK
The undersigned registered owner of this 5.75% SENIOR CONVERTIBLE NOTE DUE 2013 hereby irrevocably acknowledges receipt of a notice from Ford Motor Company (the ) regarding the right of Holders to elect to require the Company to purchase the Securities upon the occurrence of a Designated Event or Change in Control, as the case may be, and requests and instructs the Company pursuant to Section 5.01 of the Supplemental Indenture to purchase the entire principal amount of this Security, or portion thereof (which is $1,000 principal amount or an integral multiple thereof) designated below, in accordance with the terms of the Indenture and the Supplemental Indenture at the price of 100% of the principal amount or proportional portion thereof, together with accrued and unpaid interest to, but not including, the Purchase Date, to the registered holder hereof.  Capitalized terms used herein but not defined shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Supplemental Indenture referred to in such Securities.  The Securities shall be purchased by the Company as of the Purchase Date pursuant to the terms and conditions specified in the Supplemental Indenture.
Company
_____________________________________
Security Certificate Number (if applicable):
Principal amount to be purchased (if less than all): _______________________________
Social Security or Other Taxpayer Identification Number: __________________________
 
USE THE FOLLOWING ONLY FOR GLOBAL BOOK ENTRY DTC PARTICIPANTS
 
Please designate your DTC Participants name and Participant Number and provide contact information below:
 
Name of DTC Participant: ____________________________________________
DTC Participant Number: _________________________
Client Reference No.( optional): _________________________________________
DTC Participant Contact Information
Name:  _________________________________________________________
Telephone No.:  ______________________                         Facsimile No.: _______________________
Email: _______________________________________
Date:           _________________________________
_____________________________________________
Your Signature:
(Sign exactly as your name appears on the other side of this Security or as an authorized DTC Participant representative)
________________________________________________
*Signature guaranteed by:
The signature must be guaranteed by an institution which is a member of one of the following recognized signature guaranty programs: (i) the Securities Transfer Agent Medallion Program (STAMP), (ii) the New York Stock Exchange Medallion Program (MSP); (iii) the Stock Exchange Medallion Program (SEMP); or (iv) such other guaranty program acceptable to the Trustee.
 
 

EXHIBIT 10.4
EXHIBIT F
 
FORM OF SECURITYHOLDER
AND
REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
This Securityholder and Registration Rights Agreement (this 
Agreement
) is entered into as of [________], by and between
Ford Motor Company
, a Delaware corporation (the 
Company
), and
Ford-UAW Holdings LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company ("Initial Holder").
 
WHEREAS, under the Settlement Agreement (defined below), the Company and the UAW have agreed that responsibility for providing retiree health care benefits for current and former UAW-represented employees of the Company will be permanently shifted from the Company to a new retiree plan funded by a new independent Voluntary Employee Benefit Association Trust ("
VEBA
");
 
WHEREAS, the Initial Holder was established by the Company pursuant to the
 
MOU for the purpose of holding certain assets, including the Notes (as defined below), required to be transferred by the Company to the VEBA;
 
 
WHEREAS, the Company
has
contribut
ed
to the
Initial Holder
$
3,334,000000
aggregate principal amount of
5.75
% S
enior Convertible Notes due 2013
issued by the Company (the 
Notes
), convertible under the terms thereof into common stock, par value $
0.01
per share, of the Company (the 
Common Stock
);
and
 
WHEREAS, in connection with the foregoing, the parties hereto wish to enter into this Agreement to govern the rights and obligations of the parties with respect to registration rights and certain other matters relating to the
Notes
and the shares of Common Stock that are issuable, or issued, as the case may be, upon conversion thereof.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the mutual agreements set forth herein and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereby agree as follows:
 
 
Section 1.1
  
Certain Defined Terms
.  As used herein, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
 
Adverse Disclosure
 means public disclosure of material non-public information that, in the Companys good faith judgment, after consultation with independent outside counsel to the Company, (i) would be required to be made in any Registration Statement or report filed with the SEC by the Company so that such Registration Statement or report would not be materially misleading; (ii) would not be required to be made at such time but for the filing of such Registration Statement; and (iii) the Company has a
bona fide
business purpose for not disclosing publicly.
 
Affiliate
 means, with respect to any Person, any other Person which directly or indirectly Controls or is Controlled by or is under common Control with such Person.  For the avoidance of doubt, the UAW and its Affiliates shall be deemed to be Affiliates of the VEBA.
 
3
 
Agreement
 shall have the meaning set forth in the Preamble.
 
Beneficial Owner
 or 
Beneficially Own
 have the meanings given to such terms in Rule 13d-3 of the Exchange Act, except that a Person shall also be deemed to beneficially own all shares of Voting Securities with respect to which such Person has the right or option to acquire (through agreement, purchase, exchange, conversion or otherwise) beneficial ownership or the power to vote.  For the avoidance of doubt, any holder of the
Notes
shall be deemed to beneficially own all of the Conversion Shares issuable upon conversion thereof.
 
Board
 means the Board of Directors of the Company.
 
Business Day
 means any day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or any other day on which banks are required or authorized by Law to be closed in New York City, New York.
 
Common Stock
 shall have the meaning set forth in the Recitals.
 
Company
 shall have the meaning set forth in the Preamble.
 
Control
 means the direct or indirect power to direct or cause the direction of management or policies of a Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, general partnership interests or management member interests, by contract, pursuant to a voting trust or otherwise.  Controlling and Controlled have the correlative meanings.
 
Conversion Shares
 means the shares of Common Stock that are issued or issuable, as the case may be, from time to time upon conversion of the
Notes
in accordance with the terms thereof, together with any securities issued or issuable in respect thereof in connection with any stock dividend, stock split (forward or reverse), combination of shares, recapitalization, merger, consolidation, redemption, exchange of securities or other reorganization or reclassification after the date hereof.  For all purposes under this Agreement, any determination of the number of shares of Common Stock that are issuable upon conversion of, or underlying, the
Notes
shall be made as if (i) the holder of the
Notes
then has the right to convert the
Notes
and (ii) any such conversion of the
Notes
will be settled in accordance with the terms thereof entirely in shares of Common Stock and not in cash (except for the payment of cash in lieu of fractional shares of Common Stock).  
For avoidance of doubt, the immediately preceding sentence shall not alter or limit in any way the rights or obligations of the Holder or the Company under the terms of the Notes, including with respect to settlement in cash upon conversion of the Notes.
 
Demand Notice
 shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 5.2(a)
.
 
Demand Registration
 shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 5.2(a)
.
 
Demand Registration Statement
 shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 5.2(b)
.
 
Elected Securities
 shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 3.2(a)
.
 
ERISA
 means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder.
 
4
 
Exchange Ac
t means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder.
 
Governing Instruments
 has the meaning given to such term in
Section 2.1(j)
.
 
Governmental Entity
 means any court, administrative agency or commission or other governmental authority or instrumentality, whether federal, state, local or foreign and any applicable industry self-regulatory organization.
 
Group
 has the meaning given to such term in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act.
 
Hedging Activities
 shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 2.2(b)
.
 
Holder
 means the
Initial Holder, any permitted assignee hereof as contemplated in
Section 7.1
(iii),
and, in the event of an assignment hereof in connection with the Transfer of the Registrable Securities to the VEBA as contemplated in
Section 7.1
(ii)
, the VEBA and/or the trustee of the VEBA, as appropriate
.
  References to the "Holder" in this Agreement shall be deemed to include all Holders in the aggregate and not to each individual Holder.
 
Indemnitee
 shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 6.1
.
 
Indemnitor
 shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 6.3(a)
.
 
dated as of January 30, 2002, between the Company and The Bank of New York (as successor trustee to JPMorgan Chase Bank), as Trustee, as amended and supplemented from time to time, including as supplemented by the Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of __________________, 2008 (the Supplemental Indenture), between the Company and the Trustee
Indenture
 means the Indenture,
.
 
Initial Holder
 shall have the meaning set forth in the Recitals
.
 
Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
 means an issuer free writing prospectus (as defined in Rule 433 under the Securities Act) relating to an offer of the Registrable Securities.
 
Law
 means any applicable United States or non-United States federal, provincial, state or local statute, common law, rule, regulation, ordinance, permit, order, writ, injunction, judgment or decree of any Governmental Entity.
 
Losses
 shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 6.1
.
 
Material Adverse Change
 means (i) any general suspension of trading in, or limitation on prices for, securities on any national securities exchange or the over-the-counter market in the United States of America; (ii) the declaration of a banking moratorium or any suspension of payments in respect of banks in the United States of America; (iii) a material outbreak or escalation of armed hostilities or other international or national calamity involving the United States of America or the declaration by the United States of a national emergency or war or a change in national or international financial, political or economic conditions; and (iv) any material adverse change in the Companys business, condition (financial or otherwise) or prospects.
 
 
5
 
 shall have the meaning set forth in .
Negotiated Transaction
Section 2.2(a)(ii)
 
Nominee
 shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 4.2
.
 
Notes
 shall have the meaning set forth in the Recitals.
 
Offered Securities
 shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 3.1
.
 
Offer Notice
 shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 3.1
.
 
Offer Price
 shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 3.2(a)
.
Option Exercise Notice
 shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 3.2(a)
.
Option Period
 shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 3.2(a)
.
Other Securities
 means any
Notes
, Common Stock or other securities of the Company held by a third party which are contractually entitled to registration rights or which the Company is registering pursuant to a registration statement covered by
Section 5.3
.
 
Owned Shares
 shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 4.1
.
 
Person
 means any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company, limited liability partnership, association, joint stock company, trust, unincorporated organization or other organization, whether or not a legal entity, and any Governmental Entity.
 
Piggyback Notice
 shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 5.3(a)
.
 
Piggyback Registration
 shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 5.3(a)
.
 
Prospectus
 means the prospectus included in any Registration Statement (including a prospectus that discloses information previously omitted from a prospectus filed as part of an effective Registration Statement in reliance upon Rule 430A promulgated under the Securities Act), as amended or supplemented by any prospectus supplement with respect to the terms of the offering of any portion of the Registrable Securities covered by such Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus related thereto, and all other amendments and supplements to such prospectus, including post-effective amendments, and all material incorporated by reference or deemed to be incorporated by reference in such prospectus.
Proxy
 or 
Proxies
 has the meaning given to such term in Rule 14a-1 of the Exchange Act.
Registrable Securities
 means the
Notes
and the Conversion Shares.  
As to any particular Registrable Securities, such securities will cease to be Registrable Securities when they have been Transferred by a Holder to a party other than a Holder in accordance with all applicable provisions of this Agreement.
 
Registration Statement
 means any registration statement of the Company under the Securities Act which permits the public offering of any of the Registrable Securities pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement, including the Prospectus, amendments and supplements to such registration statement, including post-effective amendments, all exhibits and all material incorporated by reference or deemed to be incorporated by reference in such registration statement.
 
 
6
 
Representatives
 means, with respect to any Person, any of such Persons officers, directors, employees, agents, attorneys, accountants, actuaries, consultants, financial advisors or other Person acting on behalf of such Person.
 
Rule 144
 means Rule 144 under the Securities Act or any successor rule thereto.
 
Rule 144A
 means Rule 144A under the Securities Act or any successor rule thereto.
 
Rule 144 Sale
 shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 2.2(a)(iii)
.
 
Rule 144A Sale
 shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 2.2(a)(iv)
.
 
SEC
 means the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Securities Act
 means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder.
 
Civil Action No. 07-14845 (E.D. Mich. filed Nov. 9, 2007), and/or (2) the class action of , Civil Action No. 05-74730, (E.D. Mich. [July 13], 2006, (6th Cir. 2007)]
Settlement Agreement
 means the Settlement Agreement, dated
March
 
[__]
, 2008 (as amended, supplemented, replaced or otherwise altered from time to time), between the Company, the UAW, and certain class representatives, on behalf of the class of plaintiffs in (1) the class action of
[
Intl Union, UAW, et al. v. Ford Motor Company,
Intl Union, UAW, et al. v. Ford Motor Company
affd,
.
 
Share Limitation
 means that the underwriter selected by the Company of any underwritten public offering advises the Company in writing that in its opinion the number or dollar amount of securities requested to be included in such offering (whether by the Holder, the Company or any other holders thereof permitted (by contractual agreement with the Company or otherwise) to include such securities in such offering) exceeds the number or dollar amount of securities which can be sold in such offering without adversely affecting the price, timing, distribution or marketability of the offering.
 
Shelf Offering
 shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 5.1(c)
.
 
Shelf Period
 shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 5.1(b)
.
 
Shelf Registration Statement
 means (i) a Registration Statement of the Company on Form S-3 (or any successor form or other appropriate form under the Securities Act) filed with the SEC or (ii) if the Company is not permitted to file a Registration Statement on Form S-3, an evergreen Registration Statement on Form S-1 (or any successor form or other appropriate form under the Securities Act) filed with the SEC, in each case for an offering to be made on a continuous or delayed basis pursuant to Rule 415 under the Securities Act covering Registrable Securities. To the extent the Company is a well-known seasoned issuer (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act), a Shelf Registration Statement shall be deemed to refer to an automatic shelf registration statement (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act) on Form S-3.
 
 
7
 
Shelf Take-Down Notice
 shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 5.1(c)
.
 
Solicitation
 has the meaning given to such term in Rule 14a-1 of the Exchange Act.
 
Subsidiary
 means, with respect to any Person, any other Person of which more than 50% of the shares of the voting securities or other voting interests are owned or Controlled, or the ability to select or elect more than 50% of the directors or similar managers is held, directly or indirectly, by such first Person or one or more of its Subsidiaries.
 
Transfer
 means, directly or indirectly, to sell, transfer, assign, pledge, hedge, encumber, hypothecate or similarly dispose of, or to enter into any contract, option or other arrangement or understanding with respect to the sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, hedge,  encumbrance, hypothecation or similar disposition.
 
Transfer Date
 means the date on which the
Notes
are first transferred from the Initial Holder to the VEBA
or the date on which the Company's ownership interest in the Initial Holder is transferred to the VEBA
.
 
Trustee
 shall have the meaning set forth in the Preamble.
 
Trust Indenture Act
 means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder.
 
UAW
 means the International Union, United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America.
 
VEBA
 shall have the meaning set forth in the Preamble.
 
Voting Securities
 means securities of the Company, including the Common Stock, with the power to vote with respect to the election of directors of the Company generally and all securities (including the outstanding
Notes
) convertible into or exchangeable for securities of the Company with the power to vote with respect to the election of directors of the Company generally.
 
Section 1.2
  
Terms Generally
.  The definitions in
Section 1.1
shall apply equally to both the singular and plural forms of the terms defined.  Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms. The words include, includes and including shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase without limitation, unless the context expressly provides otherwise. All references herein to Sections, paragraphs, subparagraphs or clauses shall be deemed references to Sections, paragraphs, subparagraphs or clauses of, this Agreement, unless the context requires otherwise.  Unless otherwise specified, the words this Agreement, herein, hereof, hereto and hereunder and other words of similar import refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular provision of this Agreement.  The word extent in the phrase to the extent shall mean the degree to which a subject or other thing extends, and such phrase shall not mean simply if.  Unless expressly stated otherwise, any Law defined or referred to herein means such Law as from time to time amended, modified or supplemented, including by succession of comparable successor Laws and references to all attachments thereto and instruments incorporated therein.  References to a Person are also to its permitted successors and assigns.  The table of contents and headings contained in this Agreement are for reference purposes only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.
 
8
 
 
Section 2.1
  
Standstill
.  The Holder shall not, and shall cause its Affiliates not to, during the term of this Agreement, directly or indirectly, alone or in concert with others, without the prior written consent of the Board, take any of the actions set forth below (or take any action that would require the Company to make any public announcement regarding any of the following):
 
           
(a)
acquire, announce an intention to acquire, offer or propose to acquire or agree to acquire, by purchase or otherwise, Beneficial Ownership of any Voting Securities other than the acquisition of
Notes
on the Transfer Date and the acquisition of Conversion Shares upon conversion thereof by the Holder;
 
           
(b)
make, or in any way participate in, any Solicitation of Proxies to vote any Voting Securities or of any written consent to corporate action from any holders of Voting Securities, seek to advise, assist, instigate, encourage or influence any Person with respect to the voting of any Voting Securities, initiate or propose any stockholder proposal or induce or attempt to induce any other Person to initiate any stockholder proposal;
 
           
(c)
make any statement or proposal, whether written or oral, to the Board, or to any director, officer or agent of the Company, or make any public announcement or proposal whatsoever with respect to a merger or other business combination, sale or transfer of any asset or assets of the Company that individually or collectively are material to the Company, recapitalization, extraordinary dividend, share repurchase, liquidation or other extraordinary corporate transaction involving the Company or any other transaction which could result in a change of control of the Company, or solicit or encourage any other Person to make any such statement, proposal or announcement;
 
           
(d)
form, join or in any way participate in a Group with respect to any Voting Securities of the Company;
 
           
(e)
deposit any Voting Securities into a voting trust or subject any Voting Securities to any arrangement or agreement with respect to the voting of any Voting Securities other than as expressly contemplated by this Agreement;
 
           
(f)
call, request the calling of, or otherwise seek to assist in the calling of, a special meeting of the stockholders of the Company;
 
           
(g)
participate in any meeting of the stockholders or execute any written consent to corporate action with respect to the Company, except in accordance with this Agreement;
 
 
9
 
           
(h)
seek to place a representative on the Board or seek the removal of any member of the Board;
 
            
(i)
act alone or in concert with others to seek to Control or influence in any manner the management, the Board or the policies of the Company or any of its Affiliates;
 
            
(j)
make a request (public or otherwise) to the Company (or its directors, officers, stockholders, employees or agents) to amend or waive this
Section 2.1
or the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws of the Company (collectively, the 
Governing Instruments
), including any request (public or otherwise) to permit the Holder or its Affiliates, or any other Person, to take any action in respect of the matters referred to in this
Section 2.1
;
 
           
(k)
publicly disclose any intention, plan or arrangement inconsistent with this
Section 2.1
; or
 
           
(l)
advise, assist, instigate, encourage or influence any other Person to do any of the foregoing.
 
The foregoing provisions shall not prohibit the Holder from:
 
           
(i)
acquiring any interest in any fund or collective investment vehicle that owns Voting Securities (so long as (x) such acquisition is not undertaken for the purpose of avoiding this
Section 2.1
, (y) Voting Securities comprise no more than 5% of the net asset value of such fund or investment vehicle and (z) neither the UAW, the Holder nor any of their respective Affiliates possesses the right, power or ability to Control such fund or collective investment vehicle or its manager);
 
          
(ii)
engaging in Hedging Activities to the extent permissible under
Section 2.2
; or
 
         
(iii)
subject to
Section 2.2
, tendering into any tender or exchange offer as seller.
 
Furthermore, the foregoing provisions shall not prohibit the UAW from (i) engaging in collective bargaining activities with respect to the Company in connection with the UAWs representation of its members, (ii) administering or enforcing its rights under any collective bargaining agreement or other agreement or arrangement with the Company or (iii) communicating with the UAWs members regarding such actions or activities (so long as such actions or activities under clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) are not undertaken for the purpose of avoiding this
Section 2.1
).
 
 
Section 2.2
  
Transfer Restrictions
.
 
           
(a)
Except for a Transfer of Registrable Securities from the Initial Holder to the VEBA, t
he Holder shall not make any Transfer of any Registrable Securities other than pursuant to any one or more of the following transactions (provided that the Holder has also first complied with the terms and conditions contained in
Article III
hereof in connection with such proposed Transfer, and subject to the limitations set forth in this
Section 2.2
and in any restrictive l
egends on the Holders Note
or Common Stock certificates):
 
 
10
 
           
(i)
a Transfer pursuant to a Shelf Offering, Demand Registration or Piggyback Registration in each case in accordance with
Article V
;
 
          
(ii)
a Transfer pursuant to a privately negotiated transaction or series of related transactions effected on the same date and at the same price per share or
Note
with one or more transferees (a 
Negotiated Transaction
);
 
         
(iii)
a Transfer pursuant to Rule 144 (a 
Rule 144 Sale
);
 
         
(iv)
a Transfer pursuant to Rule 144A (a 
Rule 144A Sale
);
 
         
(v)
a Transfer to the Company or a wholly-owned direct or indirect Subsidiary of the Company pursuant to a self-tender offer or otherwise;
 
         
(vi)
Transfer pursuant to a merger or consolidation in which the Company or a wholly-owned direct or indirect Subsidiary of the Company is a constituent corporation; and
 
         
(vii)
a Transfer by tendering any or all of the Registrable Securities into an exchange offer, a tender offer or a request or invitation for tenders (as such terms are used in Sections 14(d) or 14(e) of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations of the SEC thereunder) for Common Stock if the tender offer has been recommended, and such recommendation has not been withdrawn, by a committee of the Board consisting solely of members of the Board (x) who are not officers or employees of the Company, (y) who are not representatives, nominees or Affiliates of the UAW or the Holder and (z) who are not representatives, nominees or Affiliates of the bidder (as defined in Rule 14d-1(e) under the Exchange Act) making such tender offer.
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 2.2 (a), no Transfer of a Registrable Security, other than from the Initial Holder to the VEBA, shall be made prior to the later of January 1, 2010 or the Transfer Date without the prior written consent of the Company, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.
 
           
(b)
The Holder may not (i) acquire any securities convertible into or exercisable for the
Notes
or Common Stock or any securities the value of which is derived from, or determined by reference to, the
Notes
or Common Stock or (ii) acquire, establish or enter into any derivative contract or arrangement the value of which is derived from, or determined by reference to, the
Notes
or Common Stock, except for actions under clause (i) or (ii) that are solely for the purpose of hedging (and that do not have the effect of increasing) the Holders investment in the
Notes
or the Conversion Shares (such activities being referred to as 
Hedging Activities
) and subject to the other limitations set forth in this Agreement.
 
           
(c)
Notwithstanding any provisions of this Agreement to the contrary:
 
           
(i)
the aggregate number of (w) Conversion Shares that are Transferred by the Holder pursuant to one or more Rule 144 Sales and Rule 144A Sales, (x) Conversion Shares underlying the principal amount of
Notes
that are Transferred by the Holder pursuant to one or more Rule 144 Sales and Rule 144A Sales, (y) Conversion Shares Transferred in connection with one or more Hedging Activities and (z) Conversion Shares underlying the principal amount of
Notes
Transferred in connection with one or more Hedging Activities shall not exceed
100
million Conversion Shares in any 3-month period; and
 
 
11
 
           
(ii)
the aggregate number of (w) Conversion Shares that are Transferred by the Holder pursuant to one or more Shelf Offerings, Demand Registrations, Rule 144 Sales and Rule 144A Sales, (x) Conversion Shares underlying the principal amount of
Notes
that are Transferred by the Holder pursuant to one or more Shelf Offerings, Demand Registrations, Rule 144 Sales and Rule 144A Sales, (y) Conversion Shares Transferred in connection with one or more Hedging Activities and (z) Conversion Shares underlying the principal amount of
Notes
Transferred in connection with one or more Hedging Activities shall not exceed
200
million Conversion Shares in any 12-month period.
 
           
(d)
Notwithstanding any provisions of this Agreement to the contrary, the Holder shall not make a Transfer of any Registrable Securities to (i) any one Person or Group (whether such Person or Group is buying for its own account or as a fiduciary on behalf of one or more accounts) of more than 2% of the Common Stock then outstanding (it being understood that the Transfer of any principal amount of the
Notes
shall be deemed for these purposes to be the Transfer of the underlying Conversion Shares) or (ii) any one Person or Group if such Person or Group is then required to file, or has filed, or as a result of such Transfer will be required to file (to the knowledge of the Holder after reasonable inquiry) a statement on Schedule 13D under the Exchange Act (or any successor thereto) with respect to the Common Stock and such Person or Group intends, or has expressly reserved the right, to exert Control or influence over the Company (to the knowledge of the Holder after reasonable inquiry).
 
           
(e)
If the Registrable Securities subject to any Transfer are not to be registered under the Securities Act, the Holder shall, prior to effecting such Transfer, cause each transferee in such Transfer to represent and warrant to, and covenant and agree with, the Holder and the Company in writing that (i) such transferee is acquiring such Registrable Securities for its own account, or for one or more accounts, as to each of which such transferee exercises sole investment discretion, for investment purposes only and not with a view to, or for resale in connection with, any distribution (within the meaning of the Securities Act) and (ii) such transferee does not constitute an underwriter (within the meaning of the Securities Act) with respect to the acquisition of such Registrable Securities from the Holder.  The parties hereto agree that the representations, warranties and covenants referred to in the immediately preceding sentence shall not be required from any transferee who receives Registrable Securities pursuant to a sale in compliance with Rule 144.
 
           
(f)
Prior to making any Transfer of Registrable Securities pursuant to
Section 2.2(a)(iii)
, the Holder shall deliver to the Company an opinion of counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Company to the effect that such Transfer may be made without registration under the Securities Act in reliance upon Rule 144.
 
12
 
           
(g)
No Transfer of Registrable Securities in violation of this Agreement, including
Article III
hereof, or in violation of any restrictive legends on the Holders
Note
or Common Stock certificates shall be made or recorded on the books of the Company and any such Transfer shall be void and of no effect.
 
           
(h)
Upon completion of any Transfer of any Registrable Securities or the entering into or execution of any Hedging Activities by or on behalf of the Holder, the Holder shall notify the Company in writing of (i) the principal amount of
Notes
and the number of Conversion Shares so Transferred and (ii) the principal amount of
Notes
and the number of Conversion Shares so Transferred pursuant to such Hedging Activities.
 
            
Section 2.3
Certificate Legends; Holder Representations
.
 
           
(a)
The Holder acknowledges and agrees that each certificate representing the Holders
Notes
and Conversion Shares shall conspicuously bear legends in accordance with the Indenture.
 
           
(b)
The Holder covenants and agrees that it will cooperate with the Company and take all action necessary to ensure that each certificate representing the Holders
Notes
and Conversion Shares shall conspicuously bear legends, respectively, in substantially the following forms:
 
THE SALE, TRANSFER, ASSIGNMENT, HEDGE, PLEDGE, ENCUMBRANCE, HYPOTHECATION OR DISPOSAL OF THESE
NOTES
AND THE SHARES OF COMMON STOCK ISSUABLE UPON CONVERSION HEREOF IS SUBJECT TO THE RESTRICTIONS, TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THAT CERTAIN SECURITYHOLDER AND REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT, DATED AS OF [_________], BY AND BETWEEN
FORD MOTOR COMPANY
AND
FORD-UAW HOLDINGS LLC
.  COPIES OF SUCH AGREEMENT MAY BE OBTAINED UPON WRITTEN REQUEST TO THE SECRETARY OF THE COMPANY.
 
THE SALE, TRANSFER, ASSIGNMENT, HEDGE, PLEDGE, ENCUMBRANCE, HYPOTHECATION OR DISPOSAL OF SECURITIES REPRESENTED BY THIS CERTIFICATE IS SUBJECT TO THE RESTRICTIONS, TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THAT CERTAIN SECURITYHOLDER AND REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT, DATED AS OF [_________], BY AND BETWEEN
FORD MOTOR COMPANY
AND
FORD-UAW HOLDINGS LLC
.   COPIES OF SUCH AGREEMENT MAY BE OBTAINED UPON WRITTEN REQUEST TO THE SECRETARY OF THE COMPANY.
 
THE SHARES OF COMMON STOCK REPRESENTED BY THIS CERTIFICATE MAY NOT BE SOLD OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED PRIOR TO OCTOBER 1, 2012 EXCEPT UNDER ONE OF THE FOLLOWING CIRCUMSTANCES: (1) THE COMPANY PROVIDES AN IRREVOCABLE NOTICE OF REDEMPTION PURSUANT TO SECTION 4.01 OF THE SECOND SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE DATED AS OF JANUARY 1, 2008, BETWEEN FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND THE BANK OF NEW YORK (AS SUCCESSOR TRUSTEE TO JPMORGAN CHASE BANK), AS TRUSTEE OR (2) IN ANY CALENDAR QUARTER, THE CLOSING MARKET PRICE OF FORD COMMON STOCK IS EQUAL TO OR GREATER THAN 120% OF THE THEN CURRENT CONVERSION PRICE (INITIALLY $11.04 PER SHARE) FOR AT LEAST 20 TRADING DAYS OF THE LAST 30 CONSECUTIVE TRADING DAYS IN THE PRECEDING CALENDAR QUARTER.
 
13
 
           
(c)
The Holder represents and warrants that it, together with its investment managers, has such knowledge and experience in financial and business matters as to be capable of evaluating the merits and risks of an investment in the Registrable Securities.  The Holder understands and acknowledges that the Registrable Securities have not been registered under the Securities Act or any state securities law and that the Registrable Securities may not be the subject of any Transfer except as expressly permitted by this Agreement.
 
 
 
 
Section 3.1
   
Offer Notice
.  If at any time the Holder proposes to Transfer Registrable Securities pursuant to
Section 2.2(a)(i)
,
(ii)
,
(iii)
or
(iv)
, the Holder shall promptly give the Company written notice of such intention to make the Transfer (the 
Offer Notice
).  The Offer Notice shall include (i) a description of the Registrable Securities proposed to be Transferred, (ii) the proposed method of distribution therefor and (iii) the number of such Registrable Securities proposed to be Transferred (the 
Offered Securities
).
 
 
Section 3.2
   
Companys Right of First Offer
.
           
(a)
The Company shall have an option for a period of ten (10) days from delivery of the Offer Notice (the 
Option Period
) to elect to offer to purchase all or any portion of the Offered Securities.  The Company may exercise such election option by notifying the Holder in writing before expiration of the Option Period (the 
Option Exercise Notice
) as to (i) the number of such Offered Securities that it wishes to purchase (the 
Elected Securities
), (ii) the per share or per
Note
cash purchase price that it proposes to pay the Holder for such Elected Securities (the 
Offer Price
) and (iii) the material terms and conditions upon which the proposed purchase would be made.  The Option Exercise Notice shall constitute an offer to purchase the number of Elected Securities indicated in the Option Exercise Notice from the Holder at the cash Offer Price and on the other terms and conditions set forth in the Option Exercise Notice.  The Holder shall have ten (10) days to accept, in writing, in whole and not in part, the offer (if any) made by the Company in the Option Exercise Notice.
 
           
(b)
If the Holder does not accept the Companys offer, the Holder shall be entitled to Transfer all or any portion of the Offered Securities, subject to the other terms of this Agreement (including
Section 2.2
and
Section 5.5(a)
), to a purchaser or purchasers on terms and conditions that are not less favorable to the Holder than those set forth in the Option Exercise Notice (and that are no more favorable to the purchaser or purchasers) in the Holders reasonable judgment;
provided
, that such Transfer of all or any portion of the Offered Securities to the purchaser or purchasers is completed within one hundred twenty (120) days after delivery of the Offer Notice to the Company.  If at the end of the one hundred twenty (120) day period, the Holder has not completed the Transfer of the Offered Securities, the Holder shall no longer be permitted to Transfer any of such Offered Securities without again fully complying with the provisions of this
Article III
.
 
14
 
           
(c)
If the Company (x) does not deliver an Option Exercise Notice to the Holder before the expiration of the Option Period, or (y) elects to offer to purchase less than all of such Offered Securities, the Holder shall be entitled to Transfer (1) all or any portion of the Offered Securities (in the case of clause (x) above), or (2) any portion of the Offered Securities that do not constitute Elected Securities (in the case of clause (y) above), in each case subject to the other terms of this Agreement (including
Section 2.2
and
Section 5.5(a)
), to a purchaser or purchasers on any terms and conditions;
provided
, that such Transfer of the Offered Securities to the purchaser or purchasers is completed within one hundred twenty (120) days after delivery of the Offer Notice to the Company.  If at the end of the one hundred twenty (120) day period, the Holder has not completed the Transfer of the Offered Securities, the Holder shall no longer be permitted to Transfer any of such Offered Securities without again fully complying with the provisions of this
Article III
.
 
 
Section 3.3
   
Payment
. If the Holder accepts in whole within ten (10) days any offer made by the Company in the Option Exercise Notice, then payment by the Company for the Elected Securities shall be made in cash by check or wire transfer at a time and place agreed upon between the parties, which shall be no later than sixty (60) days after delivery to the Company of the Offer Notice;
provided
,
however
, that in the event the Company is unable to effectuate such closing due to legal and/or contractual prohibitions applicable to the Company or the transaction, the Company shall have the right to extend such deadline for the closing for up to an additional thirty (30) days.  For the avoidance of doubt, any obligation of the Company to effectuate such closing with respect to the Elected Securities shall be subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Option Exercise Notice.
 
 
Section 3.4
   
Assignment of Right of First Offer
.  Notwithstanding any provision in this Agreement to the contrary, the Company may assign its rights and obligations under this
Article III
to any Person without the consent of the Holder;
provided
, that the Company shall be liable to the Holder for any breach of, or failure to comply with, this
Article III
by any such assignee.
 
 
 
Section 4.1
   
Agreement to Vote
.  The Holder irrevocably and unconditionally hereby agrees that from and after the date hereof until the date of termination of this Agreement in accordance with its terms, at any meeting (whether annual or special and each adjourned or postponed meeting) of the Companys stockholders, however called, or in connection with any written consent of the Companys stockholders, the Holder will (i) appear at such meeting or otherwise cause any and all issued Conversion Shares held or beneficially owned by the Holder to be counted as present thereat for purposes of calculating a quorum and (ii) vote or cause to be voted (including by written consent, if applicable) such issued Conversion Shares held or beneficially owned by the Holder as of the relevant time (
Owned Shares
) on each matter presented to the stockholders of the Company as follows:
           
(a)
In the case of any proposed amendments to, or restatements of, the Governing Instruments that are proposed by the Company to (x) facilitate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or (y) to bring the Governing Instruments into conformity with this Agreement, in either case as may be determined by the Board in its discretion, for such proposal; and
 
15
 
           
(b)
In the case of any other matter presented to the stockholders of the Company, in the same proportionate manner (either for, against, withheld or otherwise) as (x) in the case of proposed stockholder action at a meeting of the Companys stockholders, the holders of Common Stock (other than the Holder and its Affiliates) that were present and entitled to vote on such matter voted in connection with each such matter and (y) in the case of proposed stockholder action by written consent, all the holders of Common Stock (other than the Holder and its Affiliates) that consented or did not consent in connection with each such matter.
 
 
Section 4.2
   
Irrevocable Proxy
.  The Holder hereby revokes any and all previous proxies granted with respect to its Owned Shares.  Subject to the last two sentences of this
Section 4.2
, upon the request of the Company and subject to applicable law, the Holder shall, or shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause any Person serving as the nominee (the 
Nominee
) of the Holder with respect to its Owned Shares to, irrevocably appoint the Company or its designee as the Holders proxy to vote (or cause to be voted) its Owned Shares in accordance with
Section 4.1
hereof.  Such proxy shall be irrevocable and coupled with an interest and shall be granted in consideration of the Company entering into this Agreement and the other arrangements covered by the Settlement Agreement.  In the event that any Nominee for any reason fails to irrevocably appoint the Company or its designee as the Holders proxy in accordance with this
Section 4.2
, the Holder shall cause such Nominee to vote its Owned Shares in accordance with
Section 4.1
hereof.  In the event that the Holder or any Nominee fails for any reason to vote its Owned Shares in accordance with the requirements of
Section 4.1
hereof, then the Company or its designee shall have the right to vote the Holders Owned Shares in accordance with
Section 4.1
.  Subject to applicable law, the vote of the Company or its designee shall control in any conflict between the vote by the Company or its designee of the Holders Owned Shares and a vote by the Holder (or any Nominee on behalf of the Holder) of its Owned Shares.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the proxy granted by the Holder and/or any Nominee shall be automatically revoked upon termination of this Agreement in accordance with its terms.
 
 
Section 4.3
   
Inconsistent Voting Agreements
.  The Holder hereby agrees that the Holder shall not enter into any agreement, contract or understanding with any Person prior to the termination of this Agreement directly or indirectly to vote, grant a proxy or power of attorney or give instructions with respect to the voting of the Holders Owned Shares in any manner which is inconsistent with this Agreement.
 
 
 
Section 5.1
   
Shelf Registration.
 
           
(a)
Subject to
Section 5.4
, as promptly as practicable after the
date hereof
, the Company shall file with the SEC a Shelf Registration Statement relating to the offer and sale of all of the Registrable Securities held by the Holder from time to time in accordance with the methods of distribution elected by the Holder and set forth in the Shelf Registration Statement and shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause such Shelf Registration Statement to be declared effective under the Securities Act as promptly as practicable after the filing thereof.
 
16
 
           
(b)
Subject to
Section 5.4
, the Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to keep such Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective under the Securities Act in order to permit the Prospectus forming a part thereof to be usable by the Holder until the earlier of (i) the date as of which all Registrable Securities have been sold pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement or another registration statement filed under the Securities Act (but in no event prior to the applicable period referred to in Section 4(3) of the Securities Act and Rule 174 thereunder) and (ii) the date as of which the Holder is permitted to sell its Registrable Securities without registration pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act without volume limitation or other restrictions on transfer thereunder (such period of effectiveness, the 
Shelf Period
).  The Company shall not be deemed to have used its reasonable best efforts to keep the Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective during the Shelf Period if the Company voluntarily takes any action or omits to take any action that would result in the Holder not being able to offer and sell any Registrable Securities pursuant to such Shelf Registration Statement, unless such action or omission is required by applicable law.  The Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to remain a well-known seasoned issuer (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act) (and not to become an ineligible issuer (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act)) during the Shelf Period.
 
           
(c)
At any time that a Shelf Registration Statement covering Registrable Securities pursuant to this
Section 5.1
is effective, if the Holder delivers a notice to the Company (a 
Shelf Take-Down Notice
) stating that the Holder intends to effect an offering of all or part of the Registrable Securities included by the Holder on the Shelf Registration Statement (a 
Shelf Offerin
g) and stating the number or dollar amount of the Registrable Securities to be included in such Shelf Offering, then the Company shall amend or supplement the Shelf Registration Statement as may be necessary in order to enable such Registrable Securities and Other Securities, as the case may be, to be distributed pursuant to the Shelf Offering as contemplated by the Shelf Take-Down Notice (taking into account, in the case of any underwritten public Shelf Offering, the inclusion of Other Securities by any other holders).
 
           
(d)
The number of Shelf Offerings (together with any Demand Registrations) in any 12-month period shall not exceed one, and the Holder shall not be entitled to initiate a Shelf Offering unless the Holder has requested to offer at least the lesser of (A)
50
million Conversion Shares (inclusive of Conversion Shares underlying any principal amount of the
Notes
requested to offer) or (B) Registrable Securities having a fair market value (based (i) in the case of any Conversion Shares included in the request, upon the closing price of the Conversion Shares quoted on the principal securities exchange on which such Conversion Shares are listed on the trading day immediately preceding the date upon which the Holder delivers a Shelf Take-Down Notice to the Company, and (ii) in the case of any principal amount of the
Notes
included in the request, upon the value of the underlying Conversion Shares based upon the closing price of the Conversion Shares quoted on the principal securities exchange on which such Conversion Shares are listed on the trading day immediately preceding the date upon which the Holder delivers a Shelf Take-Down Notice to the Company)
 
of $500 million in such Shelf Offering.
 
           
(e)
The Holder may withdraw its Registrable Securities from a Shelf Offering at any time by providing the Company with written notice.  Upon receipt of such written notice, the Company shall cease all efforts to secure registration;
provided
,
however
, such registration shall nonetheless be deemed a Shelf Offering for all purposes hereunder unless (i) the withdrawal is made following the occurrence of a Material Adverse Change not known to the Holder at the time of the Shelf-Take Down Notice, (ii) the withdrawal is made because the registration would require the Company to make an Adverse Disclosure or (iii) the Holder has paid or reimbursed the Company for all of the reasonable out-of-pocket fees and expenses incurred by the Company in the preparation, filing and processing of the withdrawn registration.
 
17
 
           
(f)
The Company shall, from time to time, supplement and amend the Shelf Registration Statement if required by the Securities Act, including the rules, regulations or instructions applicable to the registration form used by the Company for such Shelf Registration Statement.
 
           
(g)
If an underwritten public Shelf Offering is subject to a Share Limitation, then there shall be included in such offering the number or dollar amount of Registrable Securities requested to be included in such registration by the Holder (and any Other Securities requested to be included therein by the holders thereof) that in the opinion of the underwriter selected by the Company can be sold without adversely affecting the price, timing, distribution or marketability of such offering, and such number or dollar amount of securities shall be allocated for inclusion
pro
 
rata
among the holders of all such securities (including the Registrable Securities of the Holder) on the basis of the number of securities of the Company owned by each such holder.
 
           
(h)
In connection with an underwritten public Shelf Offering, the Holder shall have the right to select a nationally recognized underwriter as the lead or managing underwriter and the Company shall have the right to select a nationally recognized underwriter as the co-manager of such underwritten public Shelf Offering, in each case, who shall be reasonably acceptable to the other party.  In connection with any such underwritten public Shelf Offering, the Holder and the Company agree that they will each enter into a customary underwriting agreement with the underwriters selected pursuant to the preceding sentence, such underwriting agreement to be reasonably satisfactory in form and substance to the Company, the Holder and the underwriters (it being understood that the Holder shall not be required to make any representations and warranties other than with respect to itself, its ownership of the Registrable Securities and its intended method of distribution thereof and shall not be required to provide an indemnity other than with respect to information it provides to the Company in writing expressly for use in such underwritten Shelf Offering, and any such indemnity shall be limited in amount to the net proceeds of such Shelf Offering actually received by the Holder).  The Holder and the Company agree that (i) an equivalent number or dollar amount of Registrable Securities shall be sold through the lead or managing underwriter selected by the Holder and the underwriter selected by the Company in any underwritten public Shelf Offering and (ii) all decisions regarding whether a Share Limitation is necessary shall be made in the sole discretion of the underwriter selected by the Company.
 
 
Section 5.2
   
Demand Registrations.
 
           
(a)
If, following the
date hereof
, the Company is unable to file, cause to be effective or maintain the effectiveness of a Shelf Registration Statement as required under
Section 5.1
, the Holder shall have the right by delivering a written notice to the Company (a 
Demand Notice
) to require the Company to, pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, register under and in accordance with the provisions of the Securities Act the number of Registrable Securities Beneficially Owned by the Holder and requested by such Demand Notice to be so registered (a 
Demand Registration
);
provided, however,
that (i) the number of Demand Registrations (together with any Shelf Offerings) in any 12-month period shall not exceed one and (ii) the Company shall not be required to register the Registrable Securities requested by the Demand Notice unless the Holder has requested to offer at least the lesser of (A)
50
million Conversion Shares (inclusive of Conversion Shares underlying any principal amount of the
Notes
requested to offer) or (B) Registrable Securities having a fair market value (based (i) in the case of any Conversion Shares included in the request, upon the closing price of the Conversion Shares quoted on the principal securities exchange on which such Conversion Shares are listed on the trading day immediately preceding the date upon which the Holder delivers a Demand Notice to the Company, and (ii) in the case of any principal amount of the
Notes
included in the request, upon the value of the underlying Conversion Shares based upon the closing price of the Conversion Shares quoted on the principal securities exchange on which such Conversion Shares are listed on the trading day immediately preceding the date upon which the Holder delivers a Demand Notice to the Company)
 
of $500 million in such Demand Registration.  The Demand Notice shall also specify the expected method or methods of disposition of the applicable Registrable Securities.
 
18
 
           
(b)
Subject to
Section 5.4
, following receipt of a Demand Notice, the Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to file, as promptly as reasonably practicable, a Registration Statement relating to the offer and sale of the Registrable Securities requested to be included therein by the Holder (and any Other Securities requested to be included therein by the holders thereof) in accordance with the methods of distribution elected by the Holder in the Demand Notice (a 
Demand Registration Statement
) and shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause such Registration Statement to be declared effective under the Securities Act as promptly as practicable after the filing thereof.
 
           
(c)
The Holder may withdraw its Registrable Securities from a Demand Registration at any time by providing the Company with written notice.  Upon receipt of such written notice, the Company shall cease all efforts to secure registration;
provided
,
however
, such registration shall nonetheless be deemed a Demand Registration for all purposes hereunder unless (i) the withdrawal is made following the occurrence of a Material Adverse Change not known to the Holder at the time of the Demand Notice, (ii) the withdrawal is made because the registration would require the Company to make an Adverse Disclosure or (iii) the Holder has paid or reimbursed the Company for all of the reasonable out-of-pocket fees and expenses incurred by the Company in the preparation, filing and processing of the withdrawn registration.
 
           
(d)
If any of the Registrable Securities to be registered pursuant to a Demand Registration Statement are to be sold in an underwritten public offering, and such offering is subject to a Share Limitation, then there shall be included in such offering the number or dollar amount of Registrable Securities of the same class requested to be included in such registration by the Holder (and any Other Securities requested to be included therein by the holders thereof) that in the opinion of the underwriter selected by the Company can be sold without adversely affecting the price, timing, distribution or marketability of such offering, and such number or dollar amount of securities shall be allocated for inclusion
pro
 
rata
among the holders of all such securities (including the Registrable Securities of the Holder) on the basis of the number of such securities of the Company owned by each such holder.
 
19
 
           
(e)
In connection with an underwritten public offering pursuant to a Demand Registration, the Holder shall have the right to select a nationally recognized underwriter as the lead or managing underwriter and the Company shall have the right to select a nationally recognized underwriter as the co-manager of such underwritten public offering, in each case, who shall be reasonably acceptable to the other party.  In connection with any such underwritten public offering, the Holder and the Company agree that they will each enter into a customary underwriting agreement with the underwriters selected pursuant to the preceding sentence, such underwriting agreement to be reasonably satisfactory in form and substance to the Company, the Holder and the underwriters (it being understood that the Holder shall not be required to make any representations and warranties other than with respect to itself, its ownership of the Registrable Securities and its intended method of distribution thereof and shall not be required to provide an indemnity other than with respect to information it provides to the Company in writing expressly for use in such underwritten public offering pursuant to a Demand Registration, and any such indemnity shall be limited in amount to the net proceeds of such underwritten public offering pursuant to a Demand Registration actually received by the Holder).  The Holder and the Company agree that (i) an equivalent number or dollar amount of Registrable Securities shall be sold through the lead or managing underwriter selected by the Holder and the underwriter selected by the Company in any underwritten public offering pursuant to a Demand Registration and (ii) all decisions regarding whether a Share Limitation is necessary shall be made in the sole discretion of the underwriter selected by the Company.
 
 
Section 5.3
   
Piggyback Registration.
 
           
(a)
If the Company proposes or is required to file a registration statement under the Securities Act with respect to an offering of Common Stock for its own account (other than (i) a registration statement filed pursuant to
Section 5.1
, (ii) a registration statement filed pursuant to
Section 5.2
, (iii) a registration statement on Form S-4 or S-8 or any successors thereto, (iv) a registration statement covering securities convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for Common Stock (other than Registrable Securities) or (v) a registration statement covering an offering of securities solely to the Companys existing stockholders or otherwise in connection with any offer to exchange securities), then the Company shall give prompt written notice of such proposed filing at least 30 days before the anticipated filing date (the 
Piggyback Notice
) to the Holder.  The Piggyback Notice shall offer the Holder the opportunity to include in such registration statement the number of Registrable Securities (for purposes of this
Section 5.3
, Registrable Securities shall be deemed to mean solely securities of the same type as those proposed to be offered by the Company for its own account) as they may request (a 
Piggyback Registration
).  Subject to
Section 5.3(b)
, the Company shall include in each such Piggyback Registration all Registrable Securities with respect to which the Company has received written requests for inclusion therein within 15 days after notice has been given to the Holder.  The Holder shall be permitted to withdraw all or part of the Registrable Securities from a Piggyback Registration at any time up to the pricing date.
 
           
(b)
If any of the shares of Common Stock to be registered pursuant to the registration giving rise to the Holders rights under this
Section 5.3
are to be sold in an underwritten public offering, the Holder shall be permitted to include all Registrable Securities requested to be included in such registration in such offering on the same terms and conditions as any other Registrable Securities, if any, of the Company included therein;
provided
, that if such offering is subject to a Share Limitation, then there shall be included in such offering: (i) first, the number or dollar amount of securities the Company proposes to sell and (ii) second, the number or dollar amount of Registrable Securities requested to be included in such registration by the Holder (and any Other Securities requested to be included therein by the holders thereof) that in the opinion of the underwriter selected by the Company can be sold without adversely affecting the price, timing, distribution or marketability of such offering, and such number or dollar amount of securities shall be allocated for inclusion
pro
 
rata
among the holders of all such securities (including the Registrable Securities of the Holder) on the basis of the number of such securities of the Company owned by each such holder.
 
20
 
           
(c)
The Company may select the lead underwriter and co-manager or co-managers to administer any offering of Registrable Securities pursuant to a Piggyback Registration;
provided,
however
,
 
that if the Holders Registrable Securities that are expected to be included in any such offering constitute, in the Companys reasonable judgment, at least 25% of the shares of Common Stock expected to be Transferred in such offering, the Holder shall have the right to appoint one co-manager (reasonably acceptable to the Company) for such offering, who shall participate in such offering on the same terms as the co-managers appointed by the Company.  In connection with any underwritten public offering pursuant to a Piggyback Registration, the Holder agrees to enter into a customary underwriting agreement with the Company and the underwriters selected pursuant to the preceding sentence, such underwriting agreement to be reasonably satisfactory in form and substance to the Company, the Holder and the underwriters (it being understood that the Holder shall not be required to make any representations and warranties other than with respect to itself, its ownership of the Registrable Securities and its intended method of distribution thereof and shall not be required to provide an indemnity other than with respect to information it provides to the Company in writing expressly for use in such Piggyback Registration, and any such indemnity shall be limited in amount to the net proceeds of such Piggyback Registration actually received by the Holder).
 
           
(d)
In the event that the Company gives the Holder notice of its intention to effect an offering pursuant to a Piggyback Registration and subsequently declines to proceed with such offering, the Holder shall have no rights in connection with such offering;
provided
,
 
however
,
 
that at the request of the Holder, the Company shall proceed with such offering, subject to the other terms of this Agreement, with respect to the Registrable Securities, which registration shall be deemed to be a Demand Registration for all purposes hereunder.  The Holder shall participate in any offering of Registrable Securities pursuant to a Piggyback Registration in accordance with the same plan of distribution for such Piggyback Registration as the Company or the holder or holders of Common Stock that proposed such Piggyback Registration, as the case may be.
 
           
(e)
No registration of Registrable Securities effected pursuant to a request under this
Section 5.3
shall be deemed to have been effected pursuant to
Section 5.1
and
Section 5.2
or shall relieve the Company of its obligations under
Section 5.1
or
Section 5.2
.
 
 
Section 5.4
   
Postponement of Registrations
. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in
Section 5.1
or
Section 5.2
, the Company may postpone the filing or effectiveness of any Demand Registration Statement or Shelf Registration Statement, or suspend the use of any Demand Registration Statement or Shelf Registration Statement, at any time if the Company determines, in its sole discretion, that such action or proposed action (i) would adversely affect or interfere with any proposal or plan by the Company or any of its Affiliates to engage in any material financing or in any material acquisition, merger, consolidation, tender offer, business combination, securities offering or other material transaction or (ii) would require the Company to make an Adverse Disclosure;
provided
,
however
, that the Company will not exercise its rights of postponement pursuant to this
Section 5.4
for more than 180 days (which need not be consecutive) in any consecutive 12-month period.  The Company shall promptly notify the Holder of any postponement pursuant to this
Section 5.4
and the Company agrees that it will terminate any such postponement as promptly as reasonably practicable and will promptly notify the Holder of such termination.  In making any such determination to initiate or terminate a postponement, the Company shall not be required to consult with or obtain the consent of the Holder or any investment manager therefor (including the Trustee), and any such determination shall be in the sole discretion of the Company, and neither the Holder nor any investment manager for the Holder (including the Trustee) shall be responsible or have any liability therefor.
 
21
 
 
Section 5.5
   
Holdback Period.
 
           
(a)
The Holder agrees, in connection with any underwritten public offering in which the Holder has elected to include Registrable Securities, or which underwritten public offering is being effected by the Company for its own account, not to effect any public sale or distribution of any Common Stock (or securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for Common Stock) (except as part of such underwritten public offering) during the period commencing on, and continuing for not more than 60 days (or such shorter period as the managing underwriter(s) may permit) after the effective date of the registration statement pursuant to which such underwritten offering shall be made or, in the case of a shelf registration statement, the period commencing on, and continuing for not more than 60 days (or such shorter period as the managing underwriter(s) may permit) after the Companys notice of a distribution in connection with such offering;
provided
,
however
, that (i) any applicable period shall terminate on such earlier date as the Company gives notice to the Holder that the Company declines to proceed with any such offering and (ii) the sum of all holdback periods shall not exceed 120 days in any given 12-month period.
 
           
(b)
In connection with any underwritten public offering made pursuant to a Registration Statement filed pursuant to
Section 5.1
or
Section 5.2
, the Company will not effect any public sale or distribution of any Common Stock (or securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for Common Stock) for its own account (other than (x) a Registration Statement (i) on Form S-4, Form S-8 or any successor forms thereto or (ii) filed solely in connection with an exchange offer or any employee benefit or dividend  reinvestment plan or (y) pursuant to such underwritten offering),
during the period commencing on, and continuing for not more than 60 days (or such shorter period as the managing underwriter(s) may permit) after the effective date of the registration statement pursuant to which such underwritten offering shall be made or, in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, the period commencing on, and continuing for not more than 60 days (or such shorter period as the managing underwriter(s) may permit) after the Companys notice of a distribution in connection with such offering, or, in either case, on such earlier date as the Holder gives notice to the Company that it declines to proceed with any such offering, except (i) for the issuance of shares of Common Stock upon the conversion, exercise or exchange, by the holder thereof, of options, warrants or other securities convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for the Common Stock pursuant to the terms of such options, warrants or other securities, (ii) pursuant to the terms of any other agreement to issue shares of Common Stock (or any securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for the Common Stock) in effect on the date of the notice of a proposed Transfer, including any such agreement in connection with any previously disclosed acquisition, merger, consolidation or other business combination and (iii) in connection with Transfers to dividend reinvestment plans or to employee benefit plans in order to enable any such employee benefit plan to fulfill its funding obligations in the ordinary course, unless the managing underwriter(s) agree otherwise.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the provisions of this
Section 5.5
shall be subject to the provisions of
Section 5.4
, and if the Company exercises its rights of postponement pursuant to
Section 5.4
with respect to any proposed underwritten public offering, the provisions of this
Section 5.5
shall not apply unless and until such time as the Company notifies the Holder of the termination of such postponement and the Holder notifies the Company of its intention to continue with such proposed offering.
 
22
 
 
Section 5.6
   
No Inconsistent Agreements
.  Nothing herein shall restrict the authority of the Company to grant to any Person the rights to obtain registration under the Securities Act of any equity securities of the Company, or any securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for such securities;
provided
,
however
,
 
that the Company shall not grant any such rights with respect to the Registrable Securities or securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for Common Stock that conflicts with the rights of the Holder under this Agreement.   The Company shall cause each holder of Common Stock who obtains the right, after the date of the Registration Rights Agreement, to propose a registration giving rise to a Piggyback Registration, if any, to agree not to Transfer any shares of Registrable Securities or securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for the Common Stock, for the applicable period set forth in
Section 5.5(a)
.
 
 
Section 5.7
   
Registration Procedures.
 
           
(a)
If and whenever the Company is required to effect the registration of any Registrable Securities under the Securities Act as provided in this
Article V
, the Company shall effect such registration to permit the sale of such Registrable Securities in accordance with the intended method or methods of disposition thereof, and pursuant thereto the Company shall cooperate in the sale of the securities and shall, as expeditiously as possible:
 
           
(i)
Prepare and file with the SEC a Registration Statement or Registration Statements on such form which shall be available for the sale of the Registrable Securities by the Holder or the Company in accordance with the intended method or methods of distribution thereof, and use its reasonable best efforts to cause such Registration Statement to become effective and to remain effective as provided herein;
provided
,
however
,
 
that before filing a Registration Statement or Prospectus (including any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus related thereto) or
any amendments or supplements thereto, the Company shall furnish or o
therwise make available to the
Holder,
its
counsel and the managing underwriter(s), if any, copies of all such documents proposed to be filed, which documents will be subject to the reas
onable revi
ew and comment of such counsel (provided that any comments made on behalf of the Holder
and the managing underwriter(s)
, if any,
 
are provided to the Company promptly upon receipt of the documents but in no event later than
ten
(
10
) Business Days
 
after receipt of such documents
by the Holder
)
,
 
and such other documents reasonably requested by such counsel, including any comment letter from the SEC, and, if requested by such counsel, provide such counsel reasonable opportunity to participate in the
preparation of such Registration Statement and each Prospectus included therein (including any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus related thereto) and such other opportunities to conduct a reasonable investigation within the meaning of the Securities Act, inc
l
uding reasonable access to the Company
s books and records, officers, accountants and other advisors. The Company shall not file any such Registration Statement or Prospectus (including any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus related thereto) or any amendments
 
or supplements thereto with respect to any registration pursuant to
Section
5.1
or
Section 5
.2
to which the Holder
s
Representative
, its counsel, or the managing underwriter(s), if any, shall reasonably object, in writing, on a timely basis, unless, in the
opinion of the Company, such filing is necessary to comply with applicable Law.
 
23
 
         
(ii)
Prepare and file with the SEC such amendments and post-effective amendments to each Registration Statement as may be reasonably requested by the Holder or necessary to keep such Registration Statement continuously effective during the period provided herein and comply in all material respects with the provisions of the Securities Act with respect to the disposition of all securities covered by such Registration Statement, and cause the related Prospectus to be supplemented by any Prospectus supplement or Issuer Free Writing Prospectus as may be necessary to comply with the provisions of the Securities Act with respect to the disposition of the securities covered by such Registration Statement, and as so supplemented to be filed pursuant to Rule 424 or Rule 433, as applicable (or any similar provisions then in force) under the Securities Act.
 
         
(iii)
Notify the Holder and the managing underwriter(s), if any, promptly (A) when a Prospectus or any Prospectus supplement, Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or post-effective amendment has been filed, and, with respect to a Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment, when the same has become effective, (B) of any request by the SEC or any other Governmental Entity for amendments or supplements to a Registration Statement or related Prospectus or Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or for additional information, (C) of the issuance by the SEC of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of a Registration Statement or the initiation of any proceedings for that purpose, (D) if at any time the representations and warranties of the Company contained in any agreement (including any underwriting agreement contemplated by
Section 5.7(a)(xvi)
below) cease to be true and correct, (E) of the receipt by the Company of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification or exemption from qualification of any of the Registrable Securities for sale in any jurisdiction, or the initiation or threatening of any proceeding for such purpose, and (F) of the happening of any event that makes any statement made in such Registration Statement or related Prospectus or Issuer Free Writing Prospectus untrue in any material respect or that requires the making of any changes in such Registration Statement, Prospectus, documents or Issuer Free Writing Prospectus so that, in the case of the Registration Statement, it will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, and that in the case of any Prospectus or Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, it will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
 
24
 
         
(iv)
Use its reasonable best efforts to obtain the withdrawal of any order suspending the effectiveness of a Registration Statement, or the lifting of any suspension of the qualification (or exemption from qualification) of any of the Registrable Securities for sale in any jurisdiction at the reasonably earliest practical date.
 
         
(v)
If requested by the managing underw
riter(s), if any, or the Holder, promptly include in a Prospectus supplement, post-effective amendment or Issuer Free Writing Prospectus such information as the managing underwriter(s), if any, or the Holder may reasonably request in order to permit the i
n
tended method of distribution of such securities and make all required filings of such Prospectus supplement, such post-effective amendment or Issuer Free Writing Prospectus as soon as practicable after the Company has received such request.
 
          
(vi)
Furnish or make available to the Holder, and each managing underwriter, if any, without charge, such number of conformed copies of the Registration Statement and each post-effective amendment thereto, including financial statements (but excluding schedules, all documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated therein by reference, and all exhibits, unless requested in writing by the Holder, counsel or managing underwriter(s)), and such other documents, as the Holder or such managing underwriter(s) may reasonably request, and upon request a copy of any and all transmittal letters or other correspondence to or received from the SEC or any other Governmental Entity relating to such offering.
 
         
(vii)
Deliver to the Holder, and the managing underwriter(s), if any, without charge, as many copies of the Prospectus or Prospectuses (including each form of Prospectus and any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus related to any such Prospectuses) and each amendment or supplement thereto as such Persons may reasonably request in connection with the distribution of the Registrable Securities; and the Company, subject to
Section 5.7(b)
, hereby consents to the use of such Prospectus and each amendment or supplement thereto by each of the Holder and the managing underwriter(s), if any, in connection with the offering and sale of the Registrable Securities covered by such Prospectus and any such amendment or supplement thereto.
 
       
(viii)
Prior to any public offering of Registrable Securities, use its reasonable best efforts to register or qualify or cooperate with the Holder, the managing underwriter(s), if any, and their respective counsel in connection with the registration or qualification (or exemption from such registration or qualification) of such Registrable Securities for offer and sale under the securities or Blue Sky laws of such jurisdictions within the United States as any seller or managing underwriter(s) reasonably requests in writing and to keep each such registration or qualification (or exemption therefrom) effective during the period such Registration Statement is required to be kept effective and to take any other action that may be necessary or advisable to enable the Holder to consummate the disposition of such Registrable Securities in such jurisdiction;
provided
,
however
, that the Company will not be required to (i) qualify generally to do business in any jurisdiction where it is not then so qualified or (ii) take any action that would subject it to general service of process in any such jurisdiction where it is not then so subject.
 
25
 
          
(ix)
Cooperate with the Holder and the managing underwriter(s), if any, to facilitate the timely preparation and delivery of certificates
 
(not bearing any legends) representing Registrable Securities to be sold after receiving
a
written represen
tation from the Holder that the Registrable Securities represented by the certificates so delivered by the Holder will be transferred in accordance with the Registration Statement, and enable such Registrable Securities to be in such denominations and reg
i
stered in such names as the managing underwriter(s), if any, or the Holder may request at least
two (
2
)
Business Days prior to any sale of Registrable Securities.
 
           
(x)
Upon the occurrence of any event contemplated by
Section 5.7(a)(iii)(B)
through
Section 5.7(a)(iii)(F)
, at the request of the Holder, prepare and file with the SEC a supplement or post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement, Prospectus or Issuer Free Writing Prospectus so that, as thereafter delivered to the purchasers of such Registrable Securities, such Prospectus will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances in which they are made, not misleading.
 
          
(xi)
Prior to the effective date of the Registration Statement relating to the Registrable Securities, provide a CUSIP number for the Registrable Securities.
 
         
(xii)
Use its reasonable best efforts to cause the
Notes
covered by a Registration Statement to be rated with such appropriate rating agencies (unless such
Notes
are already rated), if so requested in writing by the Holder or the managing underwriter(s), if any.
 
        
(xiii)
Use its reasonable best efforts to cause the
Notes
covered by any Registration Statement to be listed on each securities exchange, if any, on which similar debt securities issued by the Company are then listed.
 
        
(xiv)
So long as the Common Stock is listed on any United States securities exchange or a quotation system, use its best efforts to cause all of the Conversion Shares to be listed on such exchange or quotation system.
 
         
(xv)
Provide and cause to be maintained a transfer agent and registrar for all Registrable Securities covered by such Registration Statement from and after a date not later than the effective date of such Registration Statement.
 
       
(xvi)
Enter into such agreements (including an underwriting agreement in form, scope and substance as is customary in underwritten offerings) and take all such other actions reasonably requested by the Holder or by the managing underwriter(s), if any, to expedite or facilitate the disposition of such Registrable Securities
, and in connection therewith, whether or not an underwriting agreement is entered into and whether or not the registration is an underwritten r
egistration, (i) make such representations and warranties to the
Holder
and the managing underwriter(s), if any, with respect to the b
usiness of the Company and its S
ubsidiaries, and the Registration Statement, Prospectus and documents, if any, incorporate
d or deemed to be incorporated by reference therein, in each case, in form, substance and scope as are customarily made by
the Company in its
underwritten offerings, and, if true, confirm the same if and when requested, (ii) use its reasonable best efforts
to furnish to the
Holder
opinions of counsel to the Company and updates thereof
 
(which counsel and opinions (in form, scope and substance) shall be reasonably satisfactory to the managing underwriter(s), if any,
and counsel
to the Holder), addressed to
th
e Holder
and each of the managing underwriter(s), if any, covering the matters customarily covered in opinions
provided by the Company in its
underwritten offerings and such other matters as may be reasonably requested by such counsel and managing underwri
ter(s), (iii) use its reasonable best efforts to obtain 
cold comfort
letters and updates thereof from the
independent registered public accounting firm
of the Company (and, if necessary, any other
independent registered public accounting firm
of any Subs
idiary of the Company or of any business acquired by the Company for which financial statements and financial data are, or are required to be, included in the Registration Statement) who have certified the financial statements included in such Registratio
n
Statement, addressed to
the Holder
(unless such accountants shall be prohibited from so addressing such letters by applicable standards of the accounting profession) and each of the managing underwriter(s), if any, such letters to be in customary form and
covering matters of the type customarily covered in 
cold comfort
letters in connection with
the Company's
underwritten offerings, (iv) if an underwriting agreement is entered into, the same shall contain indemnification provisions and procedures substan
tially to the effect set forth in
Article VI
hereof with respect to all parties to be indemnified pursuant to said
Article
except as otherwise agreed by the Holder
 
and the managing underwriter(s) and (v) deliver such documents and certificates as may be re
asonably requested by the Holder,
its
counsel and the managing underwriter(s), if any, to evidence the continued validity of the representations and warranties made pursuant to clause (i) above and to evidence compliance with any customary conditions conta
ined in the underwriting agreement or other agreement entered into by the Company.  The above shall be done at each closing under such underwriting or similar agreement, or as and to the extent required thereunder.
 
26
 
      
(xvii)
Upon execution of a customary con
fidentiality agreement, make available for inspection by a
R
epresentative of the Holder, the managing underwriter(s), if any, and any attorneys
,
accountants
or other agents or Representatives
retained by
the Holder
or managing underwriter(s), at the office
s where normally kept, during reasonable business hours, financial and other records, pertinent corporate documents and properties of the Company and its Subsidiaries, and cause the officers, directors and employees of the Company and its Subsidiaries to
s
upply all information in each case reasonably requested by any such
Representative
, managing underwriter(s), attorney
,
accountant
or Representatives
in connection with such Registration Statement.
 
     
(xviii)
Otherwise use its reasonable best efforts to comply
with all applicable rules and regulations of the SEC and any applicable national securities exchange, and make available to
the Holder
, as soon as reasonably practicable (but not more than 18 months) a
fter the effective date of the Registration S
tatement,
an earnings statement which shall satisfy the provisions of Section 11(a) of the Securities Act.
 
           
(b)
Each of the parties will treat all notices of proposed Transfers and registrations, and all information relating to any blackout periods under
Section 5.4
received from the other party with the strictest confidence (and in accordance with the terms of any applicable confidentiality agreement among the Company and the Holder) and will not disseminate such information.  Nothing herein shall be construed to require the Company or any of its Affiliates to make any public disclosure of information at any time.  In the event the Company has notified the Holder of any occurrence of any event contemplated by
Section 5.7(a)(iii)(B)
through
Section 5.7(a)(iii)(F)
then the Holder shall not deliver such Prospectus or Issuer Free Writing Prospectus to any purchaser and will forthwith discontinue disposition of any Registrable Securities covered by such Registration Statement, Prospectus or Issuer Free Writing Prospectus unless and until a supplement or post-effective amendment to such Prospectus or Issuer Free Writing Prospectus has been prepared and filed as set forth in
Section 5.7(a)(x)
or until the Company advises the Holder in writing that the use of such Prospectus or Issuer Free Writing Prospectus may be resumed.
 
27
 
           
(c)
The Holder shall cooperate with the Company in the preparation and filing of any Registration Statement under the Securities Act pursuant to this Agreement and provide the Company with all information reasonably necessary to complete such preparation as the Company may, from time to time, reasonably request in writing and the Company may exclude from such registration the Registrable Securities of the Holder if the Holder unreasonably fails to furnish such information within a reasonable time after receiving such request.
 
Section 5.8
  
 
Participation in
Public Offering
Transfers.
 
           
(a)
In the case of an underwritten offering made pursuant to a Registration Statement filed pursuant to
Section 5.1
or
Section 5.2
, the price, underwriting discount and other financial terms for each class of Registrable Securities of the related underwriting agreement shall be determined by the Holder.  In the case of any underwritten offering registered pursuant to the registration giving rise to the Holders rights under
Section 5.3
, such price, underwriting discount and other financial terms shall be determined by the Company, subject to the right of the Holder to withdraw its request to participate in the registration pursuant to
Section 5.3(a)
.
 
           
(b)
The Holder may not participate in any underwritten Transfers hereunder unless it (i) agrees to sell its securities on the basis provided in any customary underwriting arrangements approved by the Person or Persons entitled hereunder to approve such arrangements and (ii) completes and executes all questionnaires, powers of attorney, indemnities, underwriting agreements, custodian agreements and other documents customarily required under the terms of such underwriting arrangements, it being understood that the Holder shall not be required to make any representations and warranties other than with respect to itself, its ownership of the Registrable Securities and its intended method of distribution thereof and shall not be required to provide an indemnity other than with respect to information it provides to the Company in writing expressly for use in such underwritten Transfer, and any such indemnity shall be limited in amount to the net proceeds of such underwritten Transfer actually received by the Holder.
 
 
Section 5.9
   
Cooperation by Management
           
.
  The Company shall make available members of the management of the Company and its Affiliates for reasonable assistance in the selling efforts relating to any offering of the Registrable Securities, to the extent customary for such offering (including, without limitation, to the extent customary, senior management attendance at due diligence meetings with prospective investors or underwriters and their counsel and road shows), and for such assistance as is reasonably requested by the Holder and its counsel in the selling efforts relating to any such offering;
provided
,
however
, that management need only be made available for (i) one offering in any 12-month period and (ii) an offering that contemplates a sale of at least 20 million Conversion Shares (inclusive of Conversion Shares underlying any principal amount of the
Notes
included in such offering).
 
28
 
 
Section 5.10
   
Registration Expenses and Legal Counsel
.  The Company shall pay all reasonable fees and expenses incident to the performance of or compliance with its obligations under this
Article V
, including (i) all registration and filing fees (including fees and expenses (A) with respect to filings required to be made with all applicable securities exchanges and/or the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc.
and (B) of compliance with securities or Blue Sky laws including any fees and disbursements of counsel for the underwriter(s) in connection with Blue Sky qualifications of the Registrable Securities pursuant to
Section 5.7(a)(viii)
), (ii) printing expenses (including expenses of printing certificates for Registrable Securities in a form eligible for deposit with The Depository Trust Company and of printing Prospectuses if the printing of Prospectuses is requested by the managing underwriter(s), if any, or by the Holder), (iii) messenger, telephone and delivery expenses of the Company, (iv) fees and disbursements of counsel for the Company, (v) expenses of the Company incurred in connection with any road show, (vi) fees and disbursements of all
independent registered public accounting firms
(including, without limitation, the expenses of any special audit and cold comfort letters required by or incident to this Agreement) and any other persons, including special experts, retained by the Company and (vii) fees up to $250,000 and reasonable disbursements of one legal counsel for the Holder in connection with each registration of Registrable Securities or sale of Registrable Securities under the Shelf Registration Statement, provided that a registration or sale either is effected or is postponed pursuant to
Section 5.4
.  For the avoidance of doubt, the Company shall not be required to pay underwriting discounts and commissions and transfer taxes, if any, relating to the sale or disposition of Registrable Securities pursuant to any Registration Statement, or any other expenses of the Holder.  In addition, the Company shall bear all of its internal expenses (including all salaries and expenses of its officers and employees performing legal or accounting duties), the expense of any annual audit, the fees and expenses incurred in connection with the listing of the securities to be registered on any securities exchange or inter-dealer quotation system on which similar securities issued by the Company are then listed and rating agency fees and the fees and expenses of any Person, including special experts, retained by the Company.
 
Section 5.11
   
Rules 144 and 144A and Regulation S
.  The Company covenants that it will file the reports required to be filed by it under the Securities Act and the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations adopted by the SEC thereunder (or, if the Company is not required to file such reports, it will, upon the reasonable request of the Holder, make publicly available such necessary information for so long as necessary to permit sales pursuant to Rules 144, 144A or Regulation S under the Securities Act), and it will take any such further action as the Holder may reasonably request, all to the extent required from time to time to enable the Holder to sell Registrable Securities without registration under the Securities Act within the limitation of the exemptions provided by (i) Rules 144, 144A or Regulation S under the Securities Act, as such Rules may be amended from time to time, or (ii) any similar rule or regulation hereafter adopted by the SEC.
 
29
 
 
 
Section 6.1
   
Indemnification by the Company
.  The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the Holder, the trustee of the Holder, the investment manager or managers acting on behalf of the Holder with respect to the Registrable Securities, Persons, if any, who Control any of them, and each of their respective Representatives (each an 
Indemnitee
), from and against any and all losses, penalties, judgments, suits, costs, claims, damages, liabilities and expenses, joint or several (including reasonable costs of investigation and legal expenses) (
Losses
) arising out of or caused by any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Registration Statement described herein or any related Prospectus or Issuer Free Writing Prospectus relating to the Registrable Securities (as amended or supplemented if the Company shall have furnished any amendments or supplements thereto), or arising out of or caused by any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein in the case of the Prospectus, in light of the circumstances in which they were made, not misleading, except insofar as such Losses arise out of or are caused by any such untrue statement or omission included or omitted in conformity with information furnished to the Company in writing by such Indemnitee or any Person acting on behalf of such Indemnitee expressly for use therein;
provided
,
however
, that the foregoing indemnity agreement shall not inure to the benefit of such Indemnitee if
the Company shall have complied with its obligation to furnish copies of the Prospectus and any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus in accordance with
Section 5.7(a)(vii)
and
such Indemnitee
, or any underwriter, broker or dealer selected by it,
 
shall have failed to comply with its obligations under
Section 5.7(b)
to discontinue use of a Prospectus or Issuer Free Writing Prospectus in accordance therewith.
This indemnity shall be in addition to any liability the Company may otherwise have under this Agreement or otherwise.  Such indemnity shall remain in full force and effect regardless of any investigation made by or on behalf of the Holder or any indemnified party and shall survive the transfer of Registrable Securities by the Holder.
 
 
Section 6.2
   
Indemnification by the Holder
.  The Holder agrees, to the fullest extent permitted under applicable law, and each underwriter selected shall agree, severally and not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless each of the Company, its directors, officers, employees and agents, and each Person, if any, who Controls the Company, to the same extent as the foregoing indemnity from the Company, but only with respect to Losses arising out of or caused by an untrue statement or omission included or omitted in conformity with information furnished in writing by or on behalf of the Holder or such underwriter, as the case may be, expressly for use in any Registration Statement described herein or any related Prospectus relating to the Registrable Securities (as amended or supplemented if the Company shall have furnished any amendments or supplements thereto)
or arising out of or caused by the failure of the Holder, or each underwriter, broker or dealer selected by the Holder,
 
to comply with its obligations under
Section 5.7(b)
to discontinue use of a Prospectus or Issuer Free Writing Prospectus in accordance therewith
. No claim against the assets of the Holder shall be created by this
Section 6.2
, except as and to the extent permitted by applicable law.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Holder shall not be liable to the Company or any such Person for any amount in excess of the net amount received by the Holder from the sale of Registrable Securities in the offering giving rise to such liability.
 
 
Section 6.3
   
Indemnification Procedures.
 
30
 
           
(a)
In case any claim is asserted or any proceeding (including any governmental investigation) shall be instituted where indemnity may be sought by an Indemnitee pursuant to any of the preceding paragraphs of this
Article VI
, such Indemnitee shall promptly notify in writing the Person against whom such indemnity may be sought (the 
Indemnitor
);
provided
,
 
however
,
that the omission so to notify the Indemnitor shall not relieve the Indemnitor of any liability which it may have to such Indemnitee except to the extent that the Indemnitor was prejudiced by such failure to notify.  The Indemnitor, upon request of the Indemnitee, shall retain counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnitee to represent (subject to the following sentences of this
Section 6.3(a)
) the Indemnitee and any others the Indemnitor may designate in such proceeding and shall pay the fees and disbursements of such counsel related to such proceeding.  In any such proceeding, any Indemnitee shall have the right to retain its own counsel, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such Indemnitee unless (i) the Indemnitor and the Indemnitee shall have mutually agreed to the retention of such counsel, (ii) the Indemnitor fails to take reasonable steps necessary to defend diligently any claim within ten calendar days after receiving written notice from the Indemnitee that the Indemnitee believes the Indemnitor has failed to take such steps, or (iii) the named parties to any such proceeding (including any impleaded parties) include both the Indemnitor and the Indemnitee and representation of both parties by the same counsel would be inappropriate due to actual or potential differing interests or legal defenses between them and, in all such cases, the Indemnitor shall only be responsible for the reasonable fees and expenses of such counsel.  It is understood that the Indemnitor shall not, in connection with any proceeding or related proceedings in the same jurisdiction, be liable for the reasonable fees and expenses of more than one separate law firm (in addition to any local counsel) for all such Indemnitees not having actual or potential differing interests or legal defenses among them, and that all such fees and expenses shall be reimbursed as they are incurred.  In the case of any such firm for the VEBA or any Control Person of the VEBA, such firm shall be designated in writing by the
n
amed
f
iduciary
(as determined in accordance with Section 402(a) of ERISA)
.  The Indemnitor shall not be liable for any settlement of any proceeding affected without its written consent.
 
           
(b)
If the indemnification provided for in this
Article VI
is unavailable to an Indemnitee in respect of any Losses referred to herein, then the Indemnitor, in lieu of indemnifying such Indemnitee hereunder, shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such Indemnitee as a result of such Losses in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative fault of the Indemnitor and the Indemnitee and Persons acting on behalf of or Controlling the Indemnitor or the Indemnitee in connection with the statements or omissions or violations which resulted in such Losses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations.  If the indemnification described in
Section 6.1
 
or
 
Section 6.2
is unavailable to an Indemnitee, the relative fault of the Company, the Holder and Persons acting on behalf of or Controlling the Company or the Holder shall be determined by reference
to, among other things, whether
the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company, the Holder or by Persons acting on behalf of the Company or the Holder and the parties relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.  The Indemnitor shall not be required to contribute pursuant to this
Section 6.3(b)
if there has been a settlement of any proceeding affected without its written consent.  No claim against the assets of the Holder shall be created by this
Section 6.3(b)
, except as and to the extent permitted by applicable law.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Holder shall not be required to make a contribution in excess of the net amount received by the Holder from the sale of Registrable Securities in the offering giving rise to such liability.
 
 
31
 
 
Section 6.4
   
Survival
.  The indemnification contained in this
Article VI
shall remain operative and in full force and effect regardless of any termination of this Agreement.
 
 
 
Section 7.1
   
Binding Effect; Assignment
.  This Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by each of the parties and their successors and permitted assigns.  
T
he rights or obligations under this Agreement
may be assigned
 
only (i)
as contemplated by
Section 3.
4
, (ii)
in
connection with a Transfer of Registrable Securities
 
by the Initial Holder
to
the VEBA or the
trustee
thereof, as appropriate,
 
pursuant to the Settlement Agreement, or (iii) in connection with a sale by the Initial Holder or the VEBA or the trustee thereof, as appropriate, of the Registerable Securities in a Negotiated Transaction in which the purchaser/transferee executes an assignment and assumption agreement reasonably satisfactory to the Company pursuant to which such purchaser agrees to assume the transferor's obligations set forth in Sections 2.1, 2.2 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), and (h), 2.3, 5.1, 5.2, 5.5, 5.7(b), 5.7(c), and 6.2 and Articles III and IV of this Agreement.  Except as described in the immediately preceding sentence, n
one of the rights or obligations under this Agreement shall be assigned
 
without the consent of the other parties hereto
.
 
 
Section 7.2
   
Adjustments; Restatement of Agreement
.  In the event of any stock dividend or distribution, stock split (forward or reverse), combination of shares, recapitalization, merger, consolidation, redemption, exchange of securities or other reorganization or reclassification after the date hereof with respect to the Registrable Securities or similar transactions affecting the Registrable Securities, all references herein to any designation of securities and to any specific number of shares or Registrable Securities shall be appropriately adjusted to give full effect thereto. Further, in the event of any of the foregoing transactions, the Company shall be entitled, without the consent of any other party hereto, to restate this Agreement in its entirety to reflect such adjustments, and the Company and the Holder hereby agree to execute any such restatement of this Agreement.
 
 
Section 7.3
   
Termination
.  All rights, restrictions and obligations of the parties hereto shall terminate and this Agreement shall have no further force and effect upon the date the Holder reduces its aggregate ownership of the Registrable Securities such that the Conversion Shares held by the Holder represent less than 2% of the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock then outstanding (it being understood that, for purposes of this
Section 7.3
, all Conversion Shares issuable upon conversion of the outstanding principal amount of the
Notes
held by the Holder shall be deemed to be outstanding and held by the Holder);
provided
, that (i) all rights and obligations under
Section 5.1
through
Section 5.8
and
Section 5.10
, if they have not previously terminated, shall terminate on the date when the Holder is able to sell all the Registrable Securities immediately without restriction pursuant to Rule 144 and (ii) all rights and obligations under
Article VI
and
Article VII
shall continue in perpetuity.
 
 
Section 7.4
   
Amendments and Waivers
.  Except as otherwise provided herein, the provisions of this Agreement may not be amended, modified or supplemented except by a writing signed by the Company and the Holder.  Any obligation of, or restriction applicable to, the Holder hereunder may be waived by a writing signed by the Company.  Any obligation of, or restriction applicable to, the Company hereunder may be waived by a writing signed by the Holder.
 
32
 
              
Section 7.5
Attorneys Fees
.  In any action or proceeding brought to enforce any provision of this Agreement or where any provision hereof is validly asserted as a defense, the successful party shall, to the extent permitted by applicable law, be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys fees in addition to any other available remedy.
 
             
Section 7.6
Notices
.  All notices and other communications provided for or permitted hereunder shall be in writing and, except as specified herein, shall be made by hand delivery, by registered or certified first-class mail, return receipt requested, overnight courier or facsimile transmission:
 
           
(i)
If to the Company:
 
Ford Motor Company
One American Road
Dearborn
,
Michigan
 
48126
 
Attention:
   
Treasurer
Telephone:
   
(
313
)
845-5575
  
Facsimile:
   
(212) 418-3695
with a copy to:
Ford Motor Company
One American Road
Dearborn
,
Michigan
 
48126
 
Attention:
   
Secretary
Telephone:
   
(313)
323
-
2130
  
Facsimile:
   
(313)
248
-
8713
           
(ii)
If to the
Holder
:
 
Ford-UAW Holdings LLC
15041 Commerce Drive South
Rotunda Court #4
Dearborn, MI  48120
Attention:  
Director  Employee Benefits Finance
Telephone:
   
(313) 253-7409
Facsimile:  
   
(313) 248-4425
with a copy to
:
Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP
One Liberty Plaza
 
33
 
New York, New York 10006
 
Attention:
   
Richard S. Lincer, Esq./David I. Gottlieb, Esq.
Telephone:
  
(212) 225-2000
  
Facsimile:
   
(212) 225-3999
All notices and communications shall be deemed to have been duly given and received: when delivered by hand, if hand delivered; the fifth Business Day after being deposited in the mail, registered or certified, return receipt requested, first class postage prepaid, or earlier Business Day actually received, if mailed; the first Business Day after being deposited with an overnight courier, postage prepaid, if by overnight courier; upon oral confirmation of receipt, if by facsimile transmission.  Each party agrees promptly to confirm receipt of all notices.
 
 
Section 7.7
   
No Third Party Beneficiaries
.  This Agreement shall be for the sole and exclusive benefit of (i) the Company and its successors and permitted assigns, (ii) the Holder, the trustee of the Holder
(following an assignment hereof from the Initial Holder to the VEBA)
and any other investment manager or managers acting on behalf of the Holder with respect to the Registrable Securities and their respective successors and permitted assigns and (iii) each of the Persons entitled to indemnification under
Article VI
hereof.  Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to give any other Person any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Agreement.
 
 
Section 7.8
   
Cooperation
.  Each party hereto shall take such further action, and execute such additional documents, as may be reasonably requested by any other party hereto in order to carry out the purposes of this Agreement.
 
 
Section 7.9
   
Counterparts
.  This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, and shall be deemed to have been duly executed and delivered by all parties when each party has executed a counterpart hereof and delivered an original or facsimile copy thereof to the other party.  Each such counterpart hereof shall be deemed to be an original, and all of such counterparts together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
 
 
Section 7.10
   
Remedies
.
 
           
(a)
Each party hereto acknowledges that monetary damages would not be an adequate remedy in the event that any of the covenants or agreements in this Agreement is not performed in accordance with its terms, and it is therefore agreed that, in addition to and without limiting any other remedy or right it may have, the non-breaching party will have the right to an injunction, temporary restraining order or other equitable relief in any state court sitting in the State of New York enjoining any such breach or threatened breach and enforcing specifically the terms and provisions hereof. Each party hereto agrees not to oppose the granting of such relief in the event such court determines that such a breach has occurred, and to waive any requirement for the securing or posting of any bond in connection with such remedy.
 
           
(b)
All rights, powers and remedies provided under this Agreement or otherwise available in respect hereof at law or in equity shall be cumulative and not alternative, and the exercise or beginning of the exercise of any thereof by any party shall not preclude the simultaneous or later exercise of any other such right, power or remedy by such party.
 
34
 
 
Section 7.11
   
GOVERNING LAW; FORUM SELECTION
.  THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO THE CONFLICTS OF LAW PRINCIPLES THEREOF.  ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING AGAINST THE PARTIES RELATING IN ANY WAY TO THIS AGREEMENT MAY BE BROUGHT AND ENFORCED EXCLUSIVELY IN THE COURTS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK
 
LOCATED IN THE BOROUGH OF MANHATTAN OR (TO THE EXTENT SUBJECT MATTER JURISDICTION EXISTS THEREFORE) THE U.S. DISTRICT COURT FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK, AND THE PARTIES IRREVOCABLY SUBMIT TO THE JURISDICTION OF BOTH SUCH COURTS IN RESPECT OF ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING.
 
 
Section 7.12
   
WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL
.  EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO HEREBY WAIVES TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY WITH RESPECT TO ANY LITIGATION DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF, UNDER OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OF THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY.  EACH OF THE PARTIES HEREBY (A) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF THE OTHER PARTY HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PARTY WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT HAS BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT AND THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED BY THIS AGREEMENT, AS APPLICABLE, BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS
SECTION 7.12
.
 
 
Section 7.13
   
Severability
.  If any provision of this Agreement shall be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
 
 
Section 7.14
   
Acknowledgments
.  
The Holder agrees that it will obtain written acknowledgments, and provide a copy of such acknowledgments to the Company, from each of its
underwriters, brokers, dealers and
investment managers with respect to the Registrable Securities and from the valuation advisers of the
t
rustee
of the Holder
(following an assignment hereof from the Initial Holder to the VEBA)
, confirming that such entity has received and reviewed this Agreement and will comply with the terms of this Agreement applicable to it.
 
 
35
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, being duly authorized, have executed and delivered this Securityholder and Registration Rights Agreement on the date first above written
 
 
 
 
Signature Page to Securityholder and Registration Rights Agreement

EXHIBIT 10.6
 
 
Ford-UAW Holdings LLC
15041 Commerce Drive South
Rotunda Court #4
Dearborn, MI  48120
Ladies and Gentlemen:
   The undersigned, FORD MOTOR COMPANY, a Delaware corporation (the Issuer), and each of the entities identified and described in Schedule I hereto (each a "Subsidiary Guarantor" and collectively, the "Subsidiary Guarantors"), hereby agree with you (hereinafter referred to as "Purchaser," "you" or "your") as follows:
 
Authorization and Issue of Notes
Prior to the Closing Date (as hereinafter defined), the Issuer shall have duly authorized the issue, sale and delivery of its 9.50% Guaranteed Secured Note due January 1, 2018 in the aggregate principal amount of $3,000,000,000 (the "Note"), to be dated the date of issue thereof, to bear interest (computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months) from such date at the rate of 9.50% (the Interest Rate) per annum, payable semi-annually in arrears on the first day of each January and July through maturity, commencing July 1, 2008, and to bear interest (so computed) after maturity, whether by acceleration or otherwise, on any overdue principal and, to the extent permitted by applicable law, on any overdue interest, until the same shall be paid in full, at a rate per annum equal to 1% in excess of the Interest Rate, to mature on January 1, 2018 and to be substantially in the form of Exhibit A. If any day on which a payment is due in respect of the Note is not a business day, then such payment shall not be made until the next following business day and no additional principal or interest or other payment shall result from such delay. For the purposes of this Agreement, the term business day shall mean a day other than a Saturday or a Sunday or a day on which banks are authorized or obligated by law to close in either the State of New York or the State of Michigan.
(a) Subject to the terms and conditions herein set forth, the Issuer hereby agrees to sell to you, and you hereby agree to purchase from the Issuer, on the Closing Date the Note at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount thereof. The Note shall be endorsed with an unconditional guaranty of payment issued by the Subsidiary Guarantors (the Guaranty), in the form set forth on the reverse side of Exhibit A hereto.
 
-1-
 
 
(b) Issuer will designate the Note as Second Priority Additional Debt in accordance with and subject to the terms of that certain Credit Agreement dated as of December 15, 2006 among the Issuer, the Subsidiary Borrowers from time to time parties thereto, the banks and other financial institutions or entities from time to time parties thereto ("Lenders"), and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent ("Administrative Agent") for the Lenders (the "Credit Agreement") and the Loan Documents (such term and other capitalized terms used in this Section 2(b) but not otherwise defined in this Agreement shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Credit Agreement).  As such, payment of the principal of and interest on the Note will be secured on a second lien basis with the Collateral pledged by the Issuer and the Subsidiary Guarantors to the Lenders under and in accordance with the Credit Agreement and the Loan Documents, including the Collateral Trust Agreement dated as of December 15, 2006 among the Issuer, the Subsidiary Guarantors and Wilmington Trust Company, as Collateral Trustee ("Collateral Trustee") (the "Collateral Trust Agreement"), and the Security Agreement dated as of December 15, 2006 made by the Issuer and the Subsidiary Guarantors in favor of the Collateral Trustee (the "Security Agreement").  Holders of the Note will be subject to the intercreditor provisions contained in Section 8 of the Collateral Trust Agreement.  Issuer will provide copies of the Credit Agreement, Collateral Trust Agreement and Security Agreement to any holder of the Note upon the request of such holder.
The closing (the Closing) of the transaction contemplated hereunder will take place at the offices of the Issuer at 10:00 a.m., Dearborn, Michigan time, on April 7, 2008, or such other date or place as shall be mutually agreed upon by the Subsidiary Guarantors, the Issuer and the Purchaser. The date on which the Closing takes place is hereinafter referred to as the Closing Date.  On the Closing Date the Issuer and the Subsidiary Guarantors will deliver to you the Note registered in your name or in the name of your nominee, such Note to be duly executed and dated the Closing Date, together with the Guaranty completed and duly executed, against your delivery to the Issuer of the principal amount of the Note by wire transfer of immediately available funds on behalf of the Issuer to the account of Ford Investment Partnership (Account No. 24542722) at State Street Bank and Trust Company, 2 Avenue De Lafayette LCC 2, Boston, MA  02111-2900 (ABA No. 011000028).
The Issuer represents and warrants to the Purchaser as follows:
   4.1           . The Issuer has been duly incorporated, and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware.  The Issuer has corporate power and authority, and has all licenses, permits, orders and other governmental and regulatory approvals, to own or lease its properties and conduct its business in the jurisdictions in which such business is transacted, except for such licenses, permits, orders and other governmental and regulatory approvals the absence of which would not have a material adverse effect on the condition  (financial or otherwise), earnings, business affairs or business prospects of the Issuer and its subsidiaries considered as a whole ("Material Adverse Effect").
Corporate Existence and Power
   4.2           . The execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and the Note are within the corporate powers of the Issuer and have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of the Issuer; this Agreement has, and as of the Closing the Note will have, been duly executed and delivered by the Issuer and as of the Closing each will constitute the legal, valid and binding obligations of the Issuer, enforceable against the Issuer in accordance with its terms, except as such enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws relating to or affecting the enforcement of creditors rights generally and by general principles of equity.
Corporate  Authority; Binding  Effect
 
-2-
 
 
4.3           . There is no consent, approval, authorization, order, registration or qualification of or with any court or any regulatory authority or other governmental body having jurisdiction over the Issuer which is required for, and the absence of which would affect, the valid authorization, issuance, sale and delivery of the Note or the valid execution and delivery by the Issuer of this Agreement, except for such consents, approvals, authorizations, orders, registrations or qualifications as have been, or will on the Closing Date have been, obtained or made and are or will then be in full force and effect.
Consents. Etc
 
4.4           . The Issuer is not in violation of its certificate of incorporation or by-laws.  The Issuer is not in default in the performance or observance of any obligation, agreement, covenant or condition contained in any contract, indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan agreement, note, lease or other agreement or instrument to which it is a party or by which it is bound or to which any of its properties are subject, except for defaults that would not have a Material Adverse Effect. The execution and delivery by the Issuer of this Agreement, the issuance and delivery of the Note, the consummation of the transactions contemplated herein and in the Note and compliance by the Issuer with the terms of this Agreement and the Note (1) do not and will not result in any violation of the certificate of incorporation or by-laws of the Issuer, and (2) do not and will not conflict with, or result in a breach of any of the terms or provisions of, or constitute a default under, or, except as described in Section 2(b) hereof, result in the creation or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any property or assets of the Issuer under (A) any contract, indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan agreement, note, lease or other agreement or instrument to which the Issuer is a party or by which it is bound or to which any of its properties are subject, (B) any existing applicable law, rule, regulation or (C) any judgment, order or decree of any government, governmental instrumentality or court, domestic or foreign, having jurisdiction over the Issuer or any of its properties, except in the case of clause (2), for conflicts, breaches or defaults or liens, charges or encumbrances that would not have a Material Adverse Effect.
No Conflicts with Agreements. Etc
    4.5           .  The Issuer is not and, after the application of the proceeds of the Note and the Convertible Note will not be, an "investment company within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the "Investment Company Act"). As used herein, Convertible Note shall mean the 5.75% Senior Convertible Notes Due 2013 issued pursuant to a Second Supplemental Indenture dated January 1, 2008 by and between the Issuer and The Bank of New York, as Trustee.
Investment  Company
 
    4.6           . The net proceeds from the issuance of the Note will be used by the Issuer for general corporate purposes.
Use of Proceeds
    4.7           . Neither the Issuer nor any Person (as hereinafter defined) acting on its behalf has taken or will take any action to register or that would require registration of the offering and sale of the Note or the Guaranty under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act).
No Registration
 
    4.8           . The Issuer has not paid nor will it become obligated to pay any fee or commission to any broker, finder, investment banker or other intermediary other than The Blackstone Group in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement. The Issuer shall, jointly and severally with the Subsidiary Guarantors, indemnify and hold the Purchaser harmless against any claims made by The Blackstone Group for any such fees or commissions.
No Brokers
 
-3-
 
 
 
Representations and Warranties of the Subsidiary Guarantors
Each of the Subsidiary Guarantors represents and warrants to the Purchaser as follows:
   5.1           . It has been duly organized and is validly existing in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its organization.  It has the power and authority, and has all licenses, permits, orders and other governmental and regulatory approvals, to own or lease its properties and conduct its business in the jurisdictions in which such business is transacted, except for such licenses, permits, orders and other governmental and regulatory approvals the absence of which would not have a Material Adverse Effect.
Existence  and  Power
   5.2           . The execution, delivery and performance of the Guaranty are within its powers and it has been duly authorized by all necessary corporate or other action on its part; at the Closing, the Guaranty will have been duly executed and delivered by it and will constitute its legal, valid and binding obligations, enforceable against it in accordance with its terms, except as such enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws relating to or affecting the enforcement of creditors rights generally and by general principles of equity.
Authority;  Binding  Effect
   5.3           . There is no consent, approval, authorization, order, registration or qualification of or with any court or any regulatory authority or other governmental body having jurisdiction over it that is required for, and the absence of which would affect, the valid execution and delivery by it of the Guaranty, except for such consents, approvals, authorizations, orders, registrations or qualifications as have been, or will on the Closing Date have been, obtained or made and are or will then be in full force and effect.
Consents, Etc
   5.4           . It is not in violation of its organizational or constituting documents and is not in default in the performance or observance of any obligation, agreement, covenant or condition contained in any contract, indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan agreement, note, lease or other agreement or instrument to which it is a party or by which it is bound or to which any of its properties are subject, except for defaults that would not have a Material Adverse Effect. The execution and delivery by it of the Guaranty, the consummation of the transactions contemplated herein and compliance by it with the terms of the Guaranty (1) do not and will not result in any violation of its organizational or constituting documents and (2) do not and will not conflict with, or result in a breach of any of the terms or provisions of, or constitute a default under, or, except as provided in Section 2(b) hereof, result in the creation or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any of its property or assets under (A) any contract indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan agreement, note, lease or other agreement or instrument to which it is a party or by which it is bound or to which its properties are subject, (B) any existing applicable law, rule, regulation or (C) any judgment, order or decree of any government, governmental instrumentality or court, domestic or foreign, having jurisdiction over it or any of its properties, except in the case of clause (2) for conflicts, breaches or defaults or liens, charges or encumbrances that would not have a Material Adverse Effect.
No  Conflicts  with  Agreements,   Etc
    5.5           . No Subsidiary Guarantor is an "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act.
Investment Company
 
-4-
 
 
   5.6           . No Subsidiary Guarantor or any Person acting on behalf of any Subsidiary Guarantor, has taken or will take any action to register or that would require the registration of  the offering and sale of the Note or the Guaranty under the Securities Act.
No Registration
   The Purchaser hereby represents and warrants to and agrees with the Issuer and each Subsidiary Guarantor as follows:
   6.1           . The Purchaser is acquiring the Note for its account and not with a view to or for sale in connection with any distribution of the Note, nor with any present intention of distributing or selling the Note, but subject nevertheless to any requirement of law that the disposition of the Purchasers property shall at all times be and remain within its control. The Purchaser is an institutional accredited investor as defined in Section 5.0l(a)(l), (2) or (3) of Regulation D promulgated under the Securities Act. The Purchaser acknowledges that (i) neither the Note nor the Guaranty has been registered under the Securities Act, and that neither the Issuer nor any Subsidiary Guarantor contemplates filing, or is contractually or legally required to file, any registration statement to effect such registration; and (ii) it has been advised that the Note and the Guaranty must be held indefinitely, unless, subject to subsection 6.2 hereof, the Note and the Guaranty are subsequently registered under the Securities Act or an exemption from such registration is available.
Acquisition  of  the  Note
   6.2           . (a) Except for a transfer from the Purchaser to the New VEBA (as defined below), the Purchaser will not assign or transfer all or any portion of the Note, the Guaranty or this Agreement (or any right or interest therein) without the prior written consent of the Issuer, unless each and all of the following conditions have been satisfied or complied with:
Assignments, Transfers  and  Participations
(i) no assignment or transfer of any portion of the Note having a principal amount of less than $250,000,000 shall be made, and any assignment or transfer of a portion of the Note in excess thereof shall be in a principal amount of an integral multiple of $100,000,000;
the assignment or transfer shall not result in a violation of any applicable law, including but not limited to, the Securities Act, any other applicable securities law or the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ("ERISA");
(ii)
(iii) the Issuer and the Guarantor shall have received a written agreement from the assignee or transferee to undertake on its own behalf the representations, warranties and covenants in this Section 6, including those in this subsection 6.2; and
(iv) the Issuer shall have received written notice from you of any such assignment or transfer at least 10 business days prior to the effective date of such assignment or transfer, together with drafts of any certificates, opinions and agreements to be delivered in accordance with the foregoing conditions and such other evidence as the Issuer and each Subsidiary Guarantor may consider necessary to establish compliance with the foregoing conditions.
  As used herein, New VEBA shall mean the trust fund to be established pursuant to the terms of the Settlement Agreement dated March 28, 2008, as amended, supplemented, replaced or otherwise altered from time to time, between the Issuer, the International Union, United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America, and certain class representatives, on behalf of the class of plaintiffs as set forth therein.
 
-5-
 
 
the participation shall not result in a violation of any applicable law, including but not limited to, the Securities Act, any other applicable securities laws or ERISA; , that (A) any Person to whom the Purchaser sells a participation in the Note shall not be entitled by virtue of such participation to any rights or benefits under this Agreement, the Note or the Guaranty, (B) the Purchasers obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (C) the Purchaser shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations, (D) the Issuer and the Subsidiary Guarantors shall continue to deal solely and directly with the Purchaser in connection with the Purchasers rights and obligations under this Agreement, and (E) no later than January 31 of each year, the Purchaser shall provide the Issuer with a written description of each participation in the Note sold by Purchaser during the prior year (it being understood that any failure to provide notice shall not render the participation invalid).
   (b) The Purchaser will not sell to one or more Persons any participation in the Note without the express written consent of the Issuer unless
provided,
however
   (c) For purposes of this subsection 6.2 and elsewhere in this Agreement, an Affiliate of any specified Person shall mean any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person; Person shall mean any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, trust or unincorporated organization; and control when used with respect to any specified Person shall mean the power to direct the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise.
   (d) The Guaranty and this Agreement shall be assignable and may be transferred to the same extent as the Note, as permitted under this Section 6 and Section 12.4(c), and shall not be separable from the Note, and each permitted assignee or transferee of the Note shall enjoy the full benefits of the Guaranty and this Agreement.
   6.3             The Purchaser and any subsequent holder or owner of the Note or any portion thereof acknowledge that the Note and the Guaranty will be subject to, and the Purchaser and any such holder agree to comply with and abide by, the intercreditor provisions contained in Section 8 of the Collateral Trust Agreement and any other provision of the Credit Agreement or Loan Documents (as defined in the Credit Agreement) applicable to or affecting the Note by virtue of its designation thereunder as Second Priority Additional Debt.
Intercreditor Provisions.
 
Your obligation to purchase and pay for the Note shall be subject to the performance by the Issuer and the Subsidiary Guarantors of all of the agreements to be performed by them under this Agreement, the Note and the Guaranty, as the case may be, and to the satisfaction of the following further conditions:
    7.1           . You shall have received at the Closing an opinion of counsel to the Issuer and the Subsidiary Guarantors (who may be an employee of the Issuer or a Subsidiary Guarantor) addressed to you and substantially in the form attached hereto as Schedule II.
Opinion of Counsel
 
-6-
 
 
7.2           . The representations and warranties of the Issuer contained in Section 4 of this Agreement shall be true and correct (to the extent qualified by materiality or Material Adverse Effect) or true and correct in all material respects (to the extent not so qualified) on and as of the Closing Date, except for the representations and warranties set forth in Section 4.3 of this Agreement, which shall be true and correct on and as of the Closing Date, and except to the extent such representations and warranties expressly relate to an earlier date.
Representations and Warranties of the Issuer
7.3           . The representation and warranties of each Subsidiary Guarantor contained in Section 5 of this Agreement shall be true and correct (to the extent qualified by materiality or Material Adverse Effect) or true and correct in all material respects (to the extent not so qualified) on and as of the Closing Date, except for the representations and warranties set forth in Section 5.3 of this Agreement, which shall be true and correct on and as of the Closing Date, except to the extent such representations and warranties expressly relate to an earlier date.
Representations and Warranties of Subsidiary Guarantors
 
7.4           . No event shall have occurred and be continuing on the Closing Date which, with the giving of notice or lapse of time, or both, would constitute a default under this Agreement.
No Default
 
7.5           .  The Guaranty shall have been duly completed, executed and delivered.
Guaranty
 
7.6           . (i) The notice required by the definition of "Permitted Second Lien Debt" in Section 1.1 of the Credit Agreement shall have been timely given by the Issuer to the Administrative Agent under the Credit Agreement and no objection thereto shall have been made by the Administrative Agent; (ii) the certification required by Section 7.2 of the Collateral Trust Agreement designating the Note as Second Priority Additional Debt, among other things, shall have been made by the Issuer to the Collateral Trustee; and (iii) copies of such notice and certification shall have been delivered to you on or prior to the Closing Date.
Designation under Credit Agreement
 
7.7          . If the conditions specified in this Section 7 have not been fulfilled, you may waive compliance with any such condition to such extent as you may in your sole discretion determine. Except as so waived by you, nothing in this Section 7.7 shall operate to relieve either the Issuer or any Subsidiary Guarantor of any of its respective obligations hereunder or to waive any of your rights against either of them.
Waiver of Conditions
Each of the Issuer and the Subsidiary Guarantors covenant and agree that, commencing on the Closing Date, and so long as the Note is outstanding, it will comply with its obligations in this Section 8.
 
8.1           . The Issuer will duly and punctually pay the principal of and interest on the Note in accordance with its terms and this Agreement.
Payment of Principal and Interest
 
-7-
 
 
   8.2           .  The Issuer shall deliver to you its audited annual financial statements and unaudited quarterly financial statements within 15 days after the Issuer is required to file the same with the SEC pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act (or, if the Issuer is not required to file annual financial statements or unaudited quarterly financial statements with the SEC pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act, then within 15 days after the Issuer would be required to file the same with the SEC pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act if it had a security listed and registered on a national securities exchange); , that such 15-day period shall automatically be extended to the earlier of (a) the date that is five days prior to the date of the occurrence of any event of default (or any comparable term) under any of the Issuers Existing Notes (as defined in the Credit Agreement) as a result of the Issuers failure to provide annual or quarterly financial statements to the extent required under the related indenture and (b) in the case of audited annual financial statements, within 240 days after the end of the Issuers fiscal year, and, in the case of unaudited quarterly financial statements, within 220 days after the end of the respective quarters for each of the first three quarterly periods of each fiscal year; , , that such financial statements shall be deemed to be delivered upon the filing with the SEC of the Issuer's Form 10-K or Form 10-Q for the relevant fiscal period.
Financial  Statements
provided
provided
further
                   
8.3           . Promptly after it provides them to the Administrative Agent in accordance with Section 6.3 of the Credit Agreement, the Issuer shall provide you, at your address specified in Section 12.1 hereof, with copies of the compliance and Borrowing Base certificates it is required to deliver pursuant to said Section 6.3.
Credit Agreement Certificates
                    8.4           . Neither the Issuer nor any Subsidiary Guarantor shall assign, convey or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder, under the Note or the Guaranty, as the case may be, without the express written consent of holders of a majority of the outstanding aggregate principal amount of the Note.
Assignment and Assumption
8.5           . (a) Each of the Issuer and the Subsidiary Guarantors may consolidate with, or sell or convey all or substantially all its assets to, or merge with or into, (1) any entity if the Issuer or such Subsidiary Guarantor or another Subsidiary Guarantor shall be the continuing entity or (2) any entity existing under the laws of (i) the United States, any state thereof, or the District of Columbia, in the case of the Issuer, and (ii) any jurisdiction, in the case of a Significant Guarantor (as defined in the Credit Agreement) in connection with an asset sale permitted under Section 7.5 of the Credit Agreement; , that in the case of clause (2) that is not in connection with an asset sale that is permitted under Section 7.5 of the Credit Agreement, (x) the successor entity shall expressly assume the due and punctual payment of the principal of and interest on the Note, in the case of the Issuer, in accordance with its terms and the due and punctual performance and observance of all the covenants and conditions of this Agreement and the Note, in the case of the Issuer, or this Agreement and the Guaranty, in the case of a Subsidiary Guarantor, by an instrument satisfactory to the Purchaser in its reasonable judgment, executed and delivered to the Purchaser by such entity, and (y) such successor entity shall not, immediately after such merger or consolidation or such sale or conveyance, be in default in the performance of any such covenant or condition.
Consolidations, Mergers and Conveyances
provided, however
(b)           Upon any consolidation by the Issuer or a Subsidiary Guarantor with or merger by the Issuer or a Subsidiary Guarantor into any other person or any conveyance, transfer or lease of the properties and assets of the Issuer or a Subsidiary Guarantor substantially as an entirety in accordance with Section 8.5(a) hereof, (x) the successor Person formed by such consolidation or into which the Issuer or Subsidiary Guarantor, as the case may be, is merged or to which such conveyance, transfer or lease is made, shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Issuer hereunder and under the Note, or of such Subsidiary Guarantor under the Guaranty, as the case may be, with the same effect as if such successor had been named as the Issuer or such Subsidiary Guarantor, as the case may be, and (y) thereafter, the predecessor entity shall be relieved of all obligations and covenants hereunder and under the Note.
 
-8-
 
 
(c) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein or in the Note, if a Subsidiary Guarantor is released from its guaranty under the Credit Agreement, such Subsidiary Guarantor shall automatically be released from the Guaranty (without requirement of notice to or consent of the Purchaser or any holder of the Note).  If requested by the Issuer, the holders of the Note agree to take promptly any action reasonably requested by the Issuer to evidence the release of such Subsidiary Guarantor from its guaranty.
8.6           .  Other than Permitted Liens (as defined below), the Issuer shall not at any time have outstanding more than $20,485,000,000 principal amount of indebtedness for borrowed money secured on a first lien basis with its assets nor more than $4,000,000,000 principal amount of indebtedness for borrowed money secured on a second lien basis with its assets.  "Permitted Liens" for purposes hereof shall mean:
Limitation on Secured Debt
    (a) liens for taxes, assessments, governmental charges and utility charges, in each case that are not yet subject to penalties for non-payment or that are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings; that adequate reserves with respect thereto are maintained on the books of the Issuer in conformity with United States generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP");
provided
    (b) carriers, warehousemens, mechanics, materialmens, repairmens, construction or other like liens arising in the ordinary course of business;
    (c) permits, servitudes, licenses, easements, rights-of-way, restrictions and other similar encumbrances imposed by applicable law or incurred in the ordinary course of business or
minor imperfections in title to real property that do not in the aggregate materially interfere with the ordinary conduct of the business of the Issuer and its subsidiaries taken as a whole;
    (d) leases, licenses, subleases or sublicenses of assets (including, without limitation, real property and intellectual property rights) granted to others that do not in the aggregate materially interfere with the ordinary conduct of the business of the Issuer and its subsidiaries taken as a whole and licenses of trademarks and intellectual property rights in the ordinary course of business;
    (e) pledges or deposits made in the ordinary course of business or statutory liens imposed in connection with workers compensation, unemployment insurance or other types of social security or pension benefits or liens incurred or pledges or deposits made to secure the performance of bids, tenders, sales, contracts (other than for the repayment of borrowed money), statutory obligations, and surety, appeal, customs or performance bonds and similar obligations, or deposits as security for contested taxes or import or customs duties or for the payment of rent, in each case incurred in the ordinary course of business;
    (f) liens arising from UCC financing statement filings (or similar filings) regarding or otherwise arising under leases entered into by the Issuer or any of its subsidiaries or in connection with sales of accounts, payment intangibles, chattel paper or instruments;
    (g) purchase money liens on property (other than shares of capital stock or indebtedness) existing at the time of acquisition (including acquisition through amalgamation, merger or consolidation) or to secure the payment of any part of the purchase price thereof or to secure any indebtedness incurred prior to, at the time of, or within 60 days after, the acquisition of such property for the purpose of financing all or any part of the purchase price thereof or to secure indebtedness provided, or guaranteed, by a governmental authority to finance research and development, limited in each case to the property purchased (or developed) with the proceeds thereof;
 
-9-
 
 
    (h) other than liens existing pursuant to the Credit Agreement and the Loan Documents (as defined therein), liens in existence on the Closing Date; that no such lien is spread to cover any additional property after the Closing Date and that  the amount of indebtedness for borrowed money
provided
secured thereby is not increased;
    (i) liens on property or capital stock of a person at the time such person becomes a subsidiary of the Issuer; , that such liens are not created, incurred or assumed in connection with, or in contemplation of, such other person becoming a subsidiary; , , that any such lien may not extend to any other property owned by the Issuer or any subsidiary of the Issuer;
provided
however
provided
further
however
    (j) liens on property at the time the Issuer acquires the property, including any acquisition by means of a merger or consolidation with or into the Issuer; , , that such liens are not created, incurred or assumed in connection with, or in contemplation of, such acquisition; , , that such liens may not extend to any other property owned by the Issuer or any subsidiary of the Issuer;
provided
however
provided
further
however
    (k) any lien securing the renewal, refinancing, replacing, refunding, amendment, extension or modification, as a whole or in part, of any indebtedness secured by any lien permitted by clause (g), (h), (i), (j), and (u) of this definition or this paragraph (k) without any change in the assets subject to such lien;
    (l) any lien arising out of claims under a judgment or award rendered or claim filed, so long as such judgments, awards or claims do not constitute an event of default under the Credit Agreement;
    (m) any lien consisting of rights reserved to or vested in any governmental authority by any statutory provision;
    (n) liens created in the ordinary course of business in favor of banks and other financial institutions over credit balances of any bank accounts held at such banks or financial institutions or over investment property held in a securities account, as the case may be, to facilitate the operation of cash pooling and/or interest set-off arrangements in respect of such bank accounts or securities accounts in the ordinary course of business;
    (o) liens in favor of lessors pursuant to sale and leaseback transactions to the extent the disposition of the asset subject to any such sale and leaseback transaction is permitted under the Credit Agreement;
    (p) liens under industrial revenue, municipal or similar bonds;
    (q) liens on securities accounts (other than liens to secure indebtedness for borrowed money);
    (r) statutory liens incurred or pledges or deposits made in favor of a governmental authority to secure the performance of obligations of the Issuer or any of its subsidiaries under environmental laws to which any assets of the Issuer or any such subsidiaries are subject;
    (s) liens granted by the Issuer or any of its subsidiaries to a landlord to secure the payment of arrears of rent in respect of leased properties in the Province of Quebec leased from such landlord, provided that any such lien is limited to the assets located at or about such leased properties;
 
-10-
 
 
    (t) servicing agreements, development agreements, site plan agreements and other agreements with governmental authorities pertaining to the use or development of any of the property and assets of the Issuer consisting of real property, same are complied with; and
provided
    (u) liens not otherwise permitted by the foregoing clauses securing obligations or other liabilities of the Issuer; that the outstanding amount of all such obligations and liabilities shall not exceed $500,000,000 at any time.
provided
 
8.7             (a) In the event the conditions in Section 10.15(c) of the Credit Agreement shall be met for the automatic release of the Collateral pledged under the Credit Agreement and/or Loan Documents (as defined therein), then such Collateral shall also be concurrently released with respect to the Note and the Guaranty shall be concurrently terminated.
Release of Collateral and Replacement Security.
(b)  In the event the Credit Agreement and/or Loan Documents (as defined therein) are amended or terminated such that the Covered Debt thereunder is no longer secured by any Collateral pledged thereunder for reasons other than the conditions in Section 10.15(c) of the Credit Agreement having been met, and as a result the Note is no longer secured on a second lien basis by any Collateral pledged thereunder, then the Issuer shall promptly provide for replacement security of the Note in a manner consistent with that provided prior to such amendment or termination, which replacement security shall be reasonably acceptable to you.  For avoidance of doubt, such replacement security shall be deemed reasonably acceptable if it constitutes a second lien on collateral pledged under a new secured credit agreement entered into by Issuer.
8.8           . From time to time, while the Note is outstanding, upon the reasonable request of the Purchaser, officials of the Issuer will confer with officials of the Purchaser and advise them as to matters bearing on the Issuers and the Subsidiary Guarantors financial condition.
Further Information
In case one or more of the following events of default shall have occurred and be continuing, that is to say:
(a)           default in the payment of the principal of the Note as and when the same shall become due and payable, whether at maturity or otherwise; or
(b)           default in payment of any installment of interest upon the Note as and when the same shall become due and payable and continuance of such default for a period of 5 business days; or
(c)           failure on the part of the Issuer or any Significant Guarantor (as defined in the Credit Agreement) duly to observe or perform any other of the covenants or agreements on its respective part contained in the Note, this Agreement or the Guaranty, as the case may be, for a period of 30 days (or 20 consecutive days in the case of failure to observe or perform the covenants or agreements described in Section 8.2) after the date on which written notice specifying such failure and requiring the Issuer or such Significant Guarantor, as the case may be, to remedy the same shall have been given to the Issuer or such Significant Guarantor, as the case may be, by the holder of the Note; or
 
-11-
 
 
(d)           any representation or warranty made by the Issuer or any Subsidiary Guarantor in this Agreement shall prove to have been untrue in any material respect as of the date on which it was made; or
(e)           (i) the Issuer, any Significant Guarantor, FMCC, a Volvo Group Member or Ford Canada (as such terms are defined in the Credit Agreement) shall (A) commence any case, proceeding or other action under any existing or future law of any jurisdiction, domestic or foreign, relating to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or relief of debtors (1) seeking to have an order for relief entered with respect to it, or seeking to adjudicate it a bankrupt or insolvent, or seeking reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, winding up, liquidation, dissolution, composition or other relief with respect to it or its debts, or (2) seeking appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, conservator or other similar official for it or for all or any substantial part of its assets, or (B) make a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors; or (ii) there shall be commenced against the Issuer, any Significant Guarantor, FMCC, a Volvo Group Member or Ford Canada any case, proceeding or other action of a nature referred to in clause (i) above that (A) results in the entry of an order for relief or any such adjudication or appointment or (B) remains undismissed, undischarged or unbonded for a period of 90 days; or
(f)           the guaranty of any Significant Guarantor contained in the Guaranty shall cease to be in full force and effect; or
(g)          the Collateral Trust Agreement or any Security Document (as defined in the Credit Agreement) shall cease to be in full force and effect, or any lien thereunder shall cease to be enforceable and perfected, with respect to Collateral, such that it would constitute an event of default under the Credit Agreement; or
(h)           an Event of Default under the Credit Agreement shall have occurred and be continuing that has resulted in any outstanding indebtedness or other obligations thereunder to be declared immediately due and payable;
then, other than pursuant to clause (e) above, unless the principal of the Note shall have already become due and payable, the holders of a majority of the outstanding aggregate principal amount of the Note, by notice in writing to the Issuer, may declare the principal of the Note to be due and payable immediately, and upon any such declaration the same shall become and shall be immediately due and payable without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived. In the case of an event of default pursuant to clause (e) above with respect to the Issuer, unless the principal of the Note shall have already become due and payable, the principal of the Note, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, accrued thereon through the occurrence of such event shall automatically become and be immediately due and payable.  Whenever the entire unpaid principal of the Note shall have become or been declared to be immediately due and payable the holders of a majority of the outstanding aggregate principal amount of the Note may, if there are no First Priority Secured Obligations or commitments in respect thereof then outstanding and subject to the provisions of the Collateral Trust Agreement, deliver a Notice of Acceleration to the Collateral Trustee; provided that, by written notice to the Issuer, such holders may, for such periods and/or subject to such conditions as may be specified in such notice, withdraw any declaration of acceleration effected in accordance with this sentence.  If a declaration of acceleration in accordance with the immediately preceding sentence shall have been withdrawn in accordance with the proviso to the immediately preceding sentence, the holders of a majority of the outstanding aggregate principal amount of the Note shall forthwith deliver to the Collateral Trustee a notice of cancellation of the respective Notice of Acceleration theretofore delivered to the Collateral Trustee.
 
-12-
 
 
All payments of principal, interest and any other amount payable on the Note or hereunder shall be made in U.S. Dollars by credit of immediately available funds to your account (Account No. 5186061000; Reference: Further Credit to FORD-UAW /) at The Northern Trust Company, 50 South LaSalle Street, Chicago, IL 60603 (ABA No. 071000152) or to such other account or such other address, maintained or located in the United States, as you may designate in writing in the manner provided in Section 12.1.
FUW05
26-93555
 
Survival of Representations and Warranties
All representations and warranties contained herein or made in writing by or on behalf of any party to this Agreement or otherwise in connection herewith shall (1) survive the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the delivery of the Note to you and the consummation of the transactions contemplated to occur on the Closing Date, and shall continue in effect as long as any Note is outstanding, and (ii) be deemed to have been relied upon by the parties, regardless of any investigation made by the parties or on their behalf.
 
 
Miscellaneous
   12.1         . All communications and notices provided for in this Agreement and the Note shall be in writing and, if to the Issuer, mailed certified mail, return receipt requested, delivered or transmitted by facsimile to it at One American Road, Dearborn, Michigan 48126, Fax No. (313) 206-5989, Confirmation No. (313) 845-5575, Attention: Treasurer, provided that any notice pursuant to Section 9 hereof shall also be delivered or transmitted to the Issuer at One American Road, Dearborn, Michigan 48126, Fax No. (313) 248-8713, Confirmation No. (313) 323-2130, Attention: Secretary, and, if to any Subsidiary Guarantor, mailed certified mail, return receipt requested, delivered or transmitted by facsimile to it c/o the Issuer at the address and facsimile number specified above, or at any other address which the Issuer or any Subsidiary Guarantor, as the case may be, may hereafter designate by written notice to you, and, if to you, mailed, delivered or transmitted by facsimile to you at 15041 Commerce Drive South, Rotunda Court #4, Dearborn, MI  48120, Fax No. (313) 253-7409, Confirmation No. (313) 248-4425, Attention: President, or to such other address and to such attention as you may from time to time designate to the Issuer in writing.
Communications and Notices
Except as specified herein, all notices and other communications shall be deemed to have been duly given (i) on the date of delivery if delivered personally, (ii) five days following posting if transmitted by U.S. mail or (iii) on the day of transmission if transmitted by facsimile (provided receipt of such transmission is confirmed by the recipient thereof by telephone), whichever shall first occur.
 
-13-
 
 
12.2         . This Agreement shall be construed in accordance with, and governed by, the laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts made and to be wholly performed within such State.
New  York  Law
12.3         . Whether or not the Closing is consummated, the Issuer shall:
Payment of Certain Expenses
(a)           upon the occurrence of an event of default, pay all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by you (including counsel fees) in connection with such event of default and collection and other enforcement proceedings resulting therefrom; and
(b)           pay all stamp and other taxes, if any, which may be determined to be payable in connection with the execution and delivery of this Agreement, the issuance of the Note, or in connection with any modification of any of the Note or of this Agreement or any waiver or consent under or in respect of this Agreement or the Note, and shall save you and all subsequent holders of the Note harmless against any loss or liability (including interest and penalties) resulting from nonpayment or delay in payment of any such taxes; , that the Issuer shall not be obligated to pay any taxes on transfers of the Note or portions thereof or any taxes on or measured by income or capital, or any taxes on intangibles or other property taxes levied on the Note or portions thereof, the income therefrom or on the holders of the Note or portions thereof, except with respect to the transfer of the Note to the New VEBA.
provided,
however
 
The obligations of the Issuer under this Section 12.3 shall survive payment of the Note.
    12.4         . (a) The Note initially delivered under this Agreement will be in the form of a fully registered Note substantially in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto. The Note or portions thereof are issuable only in fully registered form and any portion of the Note shall be in a principal amount of at least $250,000,000 or an integral multiple of $100,000,000 in excess thereof.
Form  of  Notes.  Registration.  Transfer  and Replacement
(b)  The Issuer shall cause to be kept at its principal office a register (the Note Register) for the registration and transfer of the Note or portions thereof. The name and address of the holder or holders of the Note or portions thereof, the transfer thereof and the names and addresses of the transferees of the Note or portions thereof shall be registered in the Note Register. The Issuer may deem and treat the persons in whose name the Note or portions thereof are so registered as the holders and owners thereof for all purposes and shall not be affected by any notice to the contrary, until due presentment of such Note or portion thereof for registration of transfer as provided in this Section 12.4.
(c)  Upon compliance with Section 6.2 hereof and surrender for registration of transfer of the Note or portion thereof, or upon surrender for registration of exchange of any Note or portion thereof without transfer, in each case, at the office of the Issuer designated for notices in Section 12.1 hereof, the Issuer shall execute and deliver, at its expense, a new Note or Notes of the same aggregate unpaid principal amount as such surrendered Note or portion thereof (but in no case in a principal amount of less than $500,000,000 or in a principal amount in excess thereof that is not an integral multiple of $100,000,000), dated the date to which interest has been paid on such surrendered Note (or, if no interest has been paid, the date of such surrendered Note), and registered in the name of such Person or Persons as shall be designated in writing by the holder of such surrendered Note. Every Note surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange shall be duly endorsed, or be accompanied by a written instrument of transfer or exchange duly authorized in writing.  The Issuer may additionally condition its issuance of any new Note or Notes on the payment to it of a sum sufficient to cover any stamp tax or other governmental charge imposed in respect of such transfer or exchange, except with respect to the transfer of the Note to the New VEBA.
 
-14-
 
 
(d) In case the Note shall become mutilated or be destroyed, lost or stolen, the Issuer upon request shall execute and deliver a new Note in exchange and substitution for the mutilated Note, or in lieu of and substitution for the Note so destroyed, lost or stolen. In every case of destruction, loss or theft, the applicant for a substituted Note shall furnish to the Issuer such security or indemnity as may be required by it to save it harmless from all risk, however remote (it being understood that, if the holder of such destroyed, lost or stolen Note is the Purchaser, the indemnity agreement of the Purchaser shall be satisfactory to the Issuer for such purpose), and the applicant shall also furnish to the Issuer evidence to its satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of such Note and of the ownership thereof. Upon the issuance of any substituted Note, the Issuer may require the payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other government charge that may be imposed in relation thereto and any other expenses connected therewith. In case the Note has matured or is about to mature and shall become mutilated or be destroyed, lost or stolen, the Issuer may, instead of issuing a substituted Note, pay the same (without surrender thereof except in the case of a mutilated Note) if the applicant for such payment shall furnish the Issuer with such security or indemnity as it may require to save it harmless from all risk, however remote, and, in case of destruction, loss or theft, evidence to the satisfaction of the Issuer of the destruction, loss or theft of such Note and of the ownership thereof. Every substituted Note issued pursuant to the provisions of this Section 12.4(d) by virtue of the fact that any Note is destroyed, lost or stolen shall constitute an additional contractual obligation of the Issuer, whether or not the destroyed, lost or stolen Note shall be found at any time.
12.5         . Neither this Agreement nor any provision hereof may be changed, waived, discharged or terminated orally, but only by an agreement in writing signed by the Issuer, the Subsidiary Guarantors and holders of a majority of the outstanding aggregate principal of the Note; provided, however, that no such change, waiver, discharge or termination shall forgive or reduce any principal amount of the Note, extend the final date of maturity thereof, reduce the stated rate of interest thereon or extend any scheduled interest payment date thereon, adversely affect the validity of the second lien security interest, or lower the priority or ranking thereof, in each case, without the written consent of each holder of the Note.
Changes. Waivers
12.6         . If any provision of this Agreement or the application thereof to any person or circumstance shall be invalid or unenforceable to any extent, the remainder of this Agreement, or the application of such provision to persons or circumstances other than those as to which it is invalid or unenforceable, shall not be affected thereby, and each provision of this Agreement shall be valid and enforceable to the extent permitted by law.
Severability
    12.7         . This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns.
Successors and Assigns
    12.8         . This Agreement may be signed in any number of counterparts, by separate parties on separate counterparts, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument. Complete sets of counterparts shall be delivered to the Issuer, the Subsidiary Guarantors and to you.
Counterparts
    12.9         . You shall promptly deliver to the Issuer such documents as the Issuer may reasonably request demonstrating due authorization, execution and delivery of this Agreement by you.
Authority
 
-15-
 
    If you agree with the foregoing, please sign the form of acceptance on the enclosed copy of this Agreement in the space provided under your name and return such copy to the Issuer, whereupon this Agreement shall become a binding agreement between you, the Issuer and the Subsidiary Guarantors in accordance with its terms.
 
-16-
 
 
 
 
 
The foregoing agreement is hereby accepted as of the date first written above:
FORD-UAW HOLDINGS LLC
 
-17-
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.           Each of the Issuer and Subsidiary Guarantors (collectively, the "Credit Parties") (a) has been duly incorporated or formed, as the case may be, and is validly existing and in good standing as a corporation or limited liability company in the jurisdiction set forth opposite its name on Schedule I to the Agreement, (b) has the corporate or limited liability company power and authority, as the case may be, to execute and deliver the Agreement, the Note and the Guaranty (the "Credit Documents") to which it is a party and to borrow and perform its obligations thereunder, and to grant the security interests to be granted by it pursuant to the Credit Agreement and Loan Documents (as defined therein and collectively referred to herein as the "Security Documents"), and (c) has duly authorized, executed and delivered each Credit Document to which it is a party.
 
2.           The execution and delivery by any Credit Party of the Credit Documents to which it is a party, its borrowings in accordance with the terms of the Credit Documents, and performance of its payment obligations thereunder and granting of the security interests to be granted by it pursuant to the Security Documents (a) will not result in any violation of (1) the Certificate of Incorporation, Articles of Incorporation, By-Laws, certificate of formation or limited liability company operating agreement, as applicable, of such Credit Party, (2) assuming that proceeds of borrowings will be used in accordance with the terms of the Agreement, any Federal, Michigan or New York statute or the Delaware General Corporation Law or the Delaware Limited Liability Company Act or any rule or regulation issued pursuant to any Federal, Michigan or New York statute or the Delaware General Corporation Law or the Delaware Limited Liability Company Act or any order known to me issued by any court or governmental agency or body and (b) will not breach or result in a default under (in each case material to the Issuer and its subsidiaries considered as a whole) or, except as described in Section 2(b) of the Agreement, result in the creation of any lien upon or security interest (in each case material to the Issuer and its subsidiaries considered as a whole) in the Credit Parties properties pursuant to the terms of any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan agreement, guarantee, lease financing agreement or other similar agreement or instrument known to me under which any Credit Party is a debtor or guarantor.
 
3.           No consent, approval, authorization, order, filing, registration or qualification of or with any Federal, Michigan or New York governmental agency or body or any Delaware governmental agency or body acting pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law or the Delaware Limited Liability Company Act is required for the execution and delivery by any Credit Party of the Credit Documents to which it is a party, the borrowings by any Credit Party in accordance with the terms of the Credit Documents or the performance by the Credit Parties of their respective payment obligations under the Credit Documents or the granting of any security interests under the Security Documents, except filings and recordings required for the perfection of security interests granted pursuant to the Security Documents.
 
4.           I do not know of any legal or governmental proceeding pending to which any Credit Party is a party, or to which any property of any Credit Party is subject, and no such proceedings are known by me to be threatened or contemplated by governmental authorities or threatened by others, that in either case questions the validity of the Credit Documents.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, FORD MOTOR COMPANY, a Delaware corporation (the Issuer), hereby promises to pay to FORD-UAW HOLDINGS LLC, or registered assigns, the principal amount of Three Billion United States Dollars ($3,000,000,000) in two equal installments on January 1, 2017 and on January 1, 2018, and to pay interest on the unpaid principal amount hereof (computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months) from January 1, 2008 at the rate of 9.50% (the Interest Rate) per annum, payable semi-annually in arrears on the first day of each January and July through maturity (each an "Interest Payment Date"), commencing July 1, 2008, to the person or persons in whose name or names this Note is registered at the close of business on the June 15 or December 15, as the case may be, immediately preceding the relevant Interest Payment Date.  The Issuer also shall pay interest (so computed) after maturity, whether by acceleration or otherwise, on any overdue principal and, to the extent permitted by applicable law, on any overdue interest, until the same shall be paid in full, at a rate per annum equal to 1% in excess of the Interest Rate.  The unpaid principal hereof may be prepaid in whole at any time, and in part from time to time, prior to maturity without premium or penalty, but with accrued and unpaid interest to the date of prepayment.  All such principal and interest shall be payable in such coin or currency of the United States as at the time of payment shall be legal tender for the payment of public and private debts, and shall be payable in Federal funds or other immediately available funds.
 
This Note is the Note referred to in the Note Purchase Agreement dated as of April 7, 2008 among the Issuer, the Subsidiary Guarantors listed in Schedule I thereto and Ford-UAW Holdings LLC (the Note Agreement). Terms defined in the Note Agreement are used herein as therein defined. As provided in the Note Agreement and subject to the limitations set forth therein, the transfer of this Note is registrable in the Note Register, upon surrender of this Note, for registration of transfer at the principal office of the Issuer. The registered holder of this Note is entitled to the benefits of the Note Agreement and may enforce the agreements, covenants and representations of the Issuer contained therein and exercise the remedies provided thereby or otherwise available in respect thereof.
The principal of and interest on this Note is guaranteed by the Subsidiary Guarantors named in the Note Agreement pursuant to the Guaranty endorsed on the reverse hereof.
This Note has been designated by the Issuer as Second Priority Additional Debt in accordance with and subject to the terms of that certain Credit Agreement dated as of December 15, 2006 among the Issuer, the Subsidiary Borrowers from time to time parties thereto, the banks and other financial institutions or entities from time to time parties thereto ("Lenders"), and JPMorgan Chase Bank, as Administrative Agent for the Lenders (the "Credit Agreement") and the Loan Documents (such term and other capitalized terms used in this paragraph but not otherwise defined in this Note or the Note Agreement shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Credit Agreement).  As such, payment of the principal hereof and interest hereon will be secured on a second lien basis with the Collateral pledged by the Issuer and the Subsidiary Guarantors to the Lenders under and in accordance with the Credit Agreement and the Loan Documents, including the Collateral Trust Agreement dated as of December 15, 2006 among the Issuer, the Subsidiary Guarantors and Wilmington Trust Company, as Collateral Trustee (the "Collateral Trust Agreement"), and the Security Agreement dated as of December 15, 2006 made by the Issuer and the Subsidiary Guarantors in favor of said Collateral Trustee (the "Security Agreement").  Holders hereof will be subject to the intercreditor provisions contained in Section 8 of the Collateral Trust Agreement.  The Issuer will provide copies of the Credit Agreement, Collateral Trust Agreement and Security Agreement to any holder hereof upon the request of such holder.
This Note and the Guaranty endorsed hereon shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Issuer has caused this Note to be executed as of the ___ day of April, 2008.
 
 
 
 
Reference is made to that Note Purchase Agreement (the Note Agreement), dated as of April 7, 2008 among FORD MOTOR COMPANY, a Delaware corporation (the Issuer), the Subsidiary Guarantors listed in Schedule I thereto (the Subsidiary Guarantors), and FORD-UAW HOLDINGS LLC.
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the Subsidiary Guarantors hereby, jointly and severally, unconditionally guarantee to the holder of the Note (the Note) on which this Guaranty is endorsed the full and punctual payment when due (whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise) of any and all sums whether of principal, interest, fees, costs, expenses or otherwise, due and payable by the Issuer pursuant to the Note Agreement and the Note (any such payment or performance obligation being herein called an Issuer Obligation); provided, however, that the liability of Ford International Capital LLC, Ford Mexico Holdings, Inc. and Grupo Ford, S. de R.L. de C.V. (each a "Non-Recourse Party") under this Guaranty shall be limited to any property (the "Non-Recourse Collateral") in which such Non-Recourse Party has granted a Lien to the Collateral Trustee pursuant to the Collateral Trust Agreement and Security Agreement and Loan Documents referred to in the Note and that the rights of the holder of the Note to recover against any such Non-Recourse Party shall be limited solely to such Non-Recourse Party's Non-Recourse Collateral.
Upon failure by the Issuer to pay punctually any Issuer Obligation, each Subsidiary Guarantor that is not a Non-Recourse Party will forthwith pay, on the day such sum is due, without notice of demand, the full amount not paid by the Issuer or any other Subsidiary Guarantor at the place and in the manner specified in the Note Agreement.
Except as provided in Section 8.7(a) of the Note Agreement, the obligations of each Subsidiary Guarantor hereunder will be unconditional and absolute and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, will not be released, discharged or otherwise affected by (i) any extension, renewal, settlement, compromise, waiver or release in respect of any Issuer Obligation, (ii) any modification or amendment of or supplement to the Note Agreement or the Note, (iii) any change in the corporate or other existence, structure or ownership of the Issuer or any Subsidiary Guarantor, or any insolvency, bankruptcy, reorganization or other similar proceedings affecting the Issuer, any Subsidiary Guarantor or any of its or their assets, (iv) the invalidity or unenforceability relating to or against the Issuer or any Subsidiary Guarantor for any reason of the Note Agreement or the Note, (v) the existence of any claim, setoff or other rights which any Subsidiary Guarantor may have at any time against the Issuer, the holder of the Note or any other person, or (vi) any other act or omission to act or delay of any kind by the Issuer, any Subsidiary Guarantor or the holder of the Note or any other circumstance whatsoever which might, but for the provisions of this paragraph, constitute a legal or equitable discharge of the Issuers obligations under the Note Agreement or the Note or any Subsidiary Guarantor's obligations hereunder.
Each Subsidiary Guarantor hereby waives acceptance hereof, presentment, demand for payment and protest of any kind whatsoever, as well as any right to require a proceeding first against the Issuer.
Except as provided in Section 8.7(a) of the Note Agreement, each Subsidiary Guarantors obligations hereunder will remain in full force and effect until all Issuer Obligations have been satisfied.  If at any time payment or any part thereof of any amount guaranteed hereby is rescinded or must otherwise be restored upon the bankruptcy or reorganization of the Issuer, each Subsidiary Guarantors obligations hereunder with respect to such payment will be reinstated as though such payment had been due but not made at such time.
Each Subsidiary Guarantor agrees that, without notice to it and without the necessity for any additional enforcement, consent or guaranty by it, the liability of the Issuer hereby guaranteed may, from time to time, be renewed, extended, modified (with respect to time for payment or the terms of indebtedness or otherwise), compromised, released or discharged by the holder of the Note without terminating, affecting or impairing the validity of this Guaranty or the obligations of such Subsidiary Guarantor hereunder.
Upon a Subsidiary Guarantor making any payment with respect to any Issuer Obligation, such Subsidiary Guarantor will be subrogated to the rights of the payee against the Issuer with respect to such payment; provided that such Subsidiary Guarantor will not enforce any payment by way of subrogation until all Issuer Obligations have been paid in full.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each Subsidiary Guarantor has caused this Guaranty to be executed as of the ___ day of April, 2008.
 


