FILE:F/F-8K-20080801154113.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
.
Item 8.01. Other Events
Our news release dated August 1, 2008 concerning U.S. retail sales of Ford vehicles in July 2008, filed as Exhibit 99 to this report, is incorporated by reference herein.
.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
- 2 - -
 
 
 
 
 
- 3 -

 
 
EWS
N
313-323-9216
gpipas@ford.com
IMMEDIATE RELEASE
FORD FOCUS CONTINUES TO SURPRISE, OUTPACE SEGMENT
DEARBORN,
Mich., August 1, 2008  Fords redesigned Focus continues to surprise auto industry watchers and customers alike with strong sales, revenue growth, fuel economy and industry-first technology.
While Ford and industry sales experienced a double-digit sales decline in July, Ford Focus sales climbed 16 percent versus a year ago.  Year-to-date, Focus sales were up 26 percent, compared with industry-wide small car growth of approximately 9 percent.
Focus has surprised in areas other than sales:
 
 
 
Go to http://media.ford.com for news releases and high-resolution photographs.
 
 
 
Focus continues to surprise and delight customers throughout the country, but the bombshell is in Texas, where Focus retail sales have almost doubled, said Jim Farley, Ford, group vice president, Marketing and Communications.  If we can increase small car sales in Texas, we can increase them anywhere.  Year-to-date, Focus retail sales were up 91 percent in Texas and 46 percent nationwide.
Total Ford, Lincoln and Mercury car sales were up 8 percent compared with a year ago.  Consistent with industry trends, crossover vehicles  which include Ford Escape, Edge and Flex  were down 8 percent.  Sport utility vehicles  such as Ford Explorer and Expedition  were down 54 percent, and trucks and vans  including Ford F-Series and Econoline  were down 18 percent.
Overall, Ford, Lincoln and Mercury vehicle sales totaled 156,406 in July, down 13 percent versus a year ago; year-to-date sales totaled 1.265 million, also down 14 percent.  Ford estimates industry-wide sales were down 11 percent year-to-date.
We expect the second half of 2008 will be more challenging than the first half as economic and credit conditions weaken, said Farley.
Fords full-year industry sales forecast is a range from 14.0  14.5 million vehicles (including medium and heavy trucks).  The first half sales rate was approximately 15 million.
 
Note: The sales data included in this release and the accompanying tables are based largely on data reported by dealers representing their sales to retail and fleet customers.
About Ford Motor Company
Ford Motor Company, a global automotive industry leader based in Dearborn, Mich., manufactures or distributes automobiles across six continents. With about 229,000 employees and about 90 plants worldwide, the companys core and affiliated automotive brands include Ford, Lincoln, Mercury, Volvo and Mazda. The company provides financial services through Ford Motor Credit Company. For more information regarding Fords products, please visit our website at .
www.ford.com
 
 
Go to http://media.ford.com for news releases and high-resolution photographs.
 
 


