FILE:F/F-8K-20081118121057.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
- 2 -
 
.
Item 8.01. Other Events
Our news release dated November 18, 2008 regarding the sale of a portion of our ownership stake in Mazda Motor Corporation, filed as Exhibit 99 to this report, is incorporated by reference herein.
.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
- 3 -
 

Exhibit 99
EWS
N
IMMEDIATE RELEASE
FORD SELLS A PORTION OF ITS STAKE IN MAZDA; TWO COMPANIES WILL CONTINUE STRATEGIC RELATIONSHIP
DEARBORN,
Mich., Nov. 18
, 2008  Ford Motor Company today announced it has entered into an agreement to sell a portion of its stake in Mazda Motor Corp. and that the two companies will continue their successful strategic relationship that spans nearly 30 years.
In line with Fords plan to strengthen its balance sheet and ensure it has the resources to implement its product-led transformation plan focusing on the Ford brand worldwide, the company said it is reducing its stake in Mazda from 33.4 percent to just over 13 percent.
 
 
Go to for news releases and high-resolution photographs.
http://media.ford.com
 
 
Under the agreement, the divestiture of Fords shares in Mazda will be accomplished both through the sale of shares to Mazda and the sale of shares to a group of Mazdas strategic business partners.  The sales of the Mazda shares will net Ford approximately $540 million.
 
This agreement allows Ford to raise capital that will help fund our product-led transformation, and at the same time, allows Ford and Mazda to continue our successful strategic relationship in the best interest of both companies, said Ford President and CEO Alan Mulally.  Ford will continue to focus on the Ford brand worldwide and deliver the products our customers really want and value.
Ford and Mazda will continue their ongoing joint ventures, as well as the sharing of platforms and powertrains.  Ford will remain Mazdas largest shareholder and will maintain a seat on Mazdas Board of Directors.
The sale of Mazda shares by our partner, Ford, will not result in any change in Mazdas strategic direction and we will continue to accelerate our product-led brand improvement and cost innovation initiatives, said Mazda Chairman, President and CEO Hisakazu Imaki.  We will continue our strategic relationship through our ongoing joint ventures with Ford, as well as the sharing of platforms and powertrains.
 
 
Ford Motor Company, a global automotive industry leader based in Dearborn, Mich., manufactures or distributes automobiles across six continents.  With about 224,000 employees and about 90 plants worldwide, the companys
core and affiliated automotive brands include Ford, Lincoln, Mercury, Volvo and Mazda. The company provides financial services through Ford Motor Credit Company.  For more information regarding Fords products, please visit
www.ford.com
.
 
 
Go to for news releases and high-resolution photographs.
http://media.ford.com
 
 


