FILE:F/F-8K-20080124084518.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Ford Motor Company ("Ford") hereby incorporates by reference its news release dated January 24, 2008, which is herewith provided as Exhibit 99.1.
Ford will conduct two conference calls on January 24, 2008 to review preliminary fourth quarter and full year 2007 financial results.  Beginning at 9:00 a.m., Ford's President and Chief Executive Officer Alan Mulally and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Don Leclair will host a presentation for the investment community and news media to review Ford's preliminary fourth quarter and full year 2007 financial results.  Investors may access this presentation by dialing 800-798-2884 (or 1-617-614-6207 from outside the United States).  The passcode for either telephone number is a verbal response of "Ford Earnings."
At 11:00 a.m., Ford Senior Vice President and Controller Peter Daniel, Ford Vice President and Treasurer Neil Schloss, and Ford Motor Credit Company Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer K.R. Kent will host a presentation for fixed income analysts and investors.  Investors may access this presentation using the same dial-in information as above, with the passcode being a verbal response of "Ford Fixed Income."
A listen-only webcast and supporting presentation materials for these calls will be available on the Internet at .  Investors may also access replays for one week following the presentations by visiting , or by dialing 888-286-8010 (or 1-617-801-6888 from outside the United States).  The passcode for replays of the earnings call is 29481628; the passcode for replays of the fixed income call is 55865600.  All times referenced above are in Eastern Time.
www.shareholder.ford.com
www.shareholder.ford.com
Please note that Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K discusses revenue and pre-tax profits excluding special items for Ford's Automotive sector and the primary operating segments and business units within the Automotive sector.  The most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles are revenue and pre-tax profits including special items.  We believe that revenue and pre-tax profits excluding special items are useful measures to provide investors, because they exclude those items that we do not consider to be indicative of earnings from ongoing operating activities.  As a result, revenue and pre-tax profits excluding special items provide investors with more relevant measures of the results generated by our operations.
Item 8.01. Other Events.
Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 is our news release dated January 23, 2008 regarding the sale of one of our Automotive Components Holdings facilities.
.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
N
EWS
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
FORD ANNOUNCES 2007 FOURTH QUARTER AND FULL YEAR PRELIMINARY RESULTS SIGNIFICANT PROGRESS ON PLAN
+
 
 
 
 
DEARBORN, Mich., Jan. 24, 2008  Ford Motor Company [NYSE: F] today reported a 2007 full-year net loss of $1.35 per share, or $2.7 billion.  This compares with a 2006 full-year net loss of $6.72 per share, or $12.6 billion.
Fords 2007 revenue, excluding special items, was $173.9 billion, up from $160.1 billion a year ago.  The increase primarily reflected changes in exchange rates, higher net pricing and improved product mix.
For full-year 2007, Ford earned a pre-tax operating profit from continuing operations, excluding special items, of $126 million.  Including taxes, Fords full-year loss from continuing operations was $366 million, or 19 cents per share, compared with a 2006 loss of $2.7 billion, or $1.44 per share.
Special items, which primarily reflected non-cash charges associated with a Premier Automotive Group (PAG) asset impairment (related to Volvo) and a change in business practice for providing retail incentives to dealers throughout the year, reduced full-year pre-tax results by $3.9 billion or $1.18 per share, which included a reduction in revenue of $1.4 billion.
Automotive gross cash, which includes cash and cash equivalents, net marketable securities, loaned securities and short-term VEBA assets, was $34.6 billion at Dec. 31, 2007, an increase of $700 million from year-end 2006.
Each of our Automotive operations is improving, and we are encouraged by the progress, which validates our strategy and plan, said Ford President and CEO Alan Mulally.  In 2007, we introduced great new products around the globe that received strong third-party endorsements for styling, quality and safety.  This year, we have some outstanding new product introductions including the Ford Flex, Lincoln MKS, and Ford F-150 in North America, and Ford Kuga and the production version of the Ford Verve concept in Europe.
FULL YEAR HIGHLIGHTS
 
Full-year 2007 highlights supporting the companys plan included:
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FOURTH QUARTER
The company reported a 2007 fourth-quarter net loss of $1.30 per share, or $2.8 billion.  This compares with a net loss of $2.98 per share, or $5.6 billion in the same period a year ago.
Fords fourth-quarter revenue, excluding special items, was $45.5 billion, up from $40.3 billion a year ago.  The increase reflected changes in currency exchange rates, higher net pricing, and improved volume.
Fords fourth-quarter after-tax loss from continuing operations, excluding special items, was 20 cents per share, or $429 million, compared with a 2006 after-tax loss of $1.03 per share, or $2.0 billion.
3
Special items reduced pre-tax results by $3.9 billion or $1.10 per share in the fourth quarter, which included a revenue reduction of $1.4 billion.  These primarily reflected non-cash charges associated with a PAG asset impairment (related to Volvo) and a change in business practice for providing retail incentives to dealers.
AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR
For the full year, Fords worldwide Automotive sector reported a pre-tax loss of $1.1 billion, compared with a pre-tax loss of $5.1 billion a year ago.  The improvements primarily reflected higher net pricing, lower costs, and favorable mix, partially offset by unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates, and higher net interest expense.
For the fourth quarter, Fords worldwide Automotive sector reported a pre-tax loss of $889 million, compared with a pre-tax loss of $2.3 billion during the same period a year ago.  The improvements were more than explained by higher net pricing and improved volume and mix, partially offset by unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates and higher net interest expense.
Worldwide Automotive revenue for 2007 was $155.8 billion, compared with $143.3 billion a year ago.  Total fourth-quarter Automotive revenue was $40.8 billion, up from $36.0 billion a year ago.
Total company vehicle wholesales in 2007 were 6,553,000, compared with 6,597,000 units a year ago.  Fourth-quarter vehicle wholesales were 1,643,000, up from 1,568,000 a year ago.
For 2007, Fords North America Automotive operations reported a pre-tax loss of $3.5 billion, compared to a loss of $6.0 billion a year ago.  The improvement primarily reflected higher net pricing, favorable mix, and lower costs, partially offset by a number of factors including lower volumes and unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates.  For the year, revenue was $70.5 billion, up from $69.4 billion a year ago.
North America:
4
For the fourth quarter, North America Automotive operations reported a pre-tax loss of $1.6 billion, compared with a loss of $2.7 billion a year ago.  The improvement primarily reflected higher net pricing, and improved volume and mix, partially offset by higher costs and unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates.  Fourth quarter revenue was $17.0 billion, up from $15.1 billion a year ago.
Fords South America operations reported a full-year pre-tax profit of $1.2 billion, compared with a profit of $551 million a year ago.  The improvement was explained by higher net pricing and volume, partially offset by increased costs.  Full-year revenue improved to $7.6 billion from $5.7 billion in 2006.
South America:
For the fourth quarter, Fords South America operations posted a pre-tax profit of $418 million, up from $114 million a year ago.  The improvement reflected higher net pricing and higher volume.  Fourth-quarter revenue improved to $2.4 billion from $1.7 billion a year ago.
Ford Europes full-year pre-tax profit was $997 million, up from $455 million in 2006.  The improvement reflected continued progress on cost reductions, improved volume and mix, and higher net pricing.  Full-year revenue improved to $36.5 billion from $30.4 billion in 2006.
Ford Europe:
For the fourth quarter, Ford Europe pre-tax profits were $223 million, up from $218 million a year ago.  The improvement was primarily explained by favorable cost performance, offset by lower volume.  Fourth-quarter revenue was $10.4 billion, an improvement from $8.8 billion a year ago.
PAG reported a full-year pre-tax profit of $504 million, compared with a loss of $344 million a year ago.  The improvement was more than explained by cost reductions across all brands, volume growth, and higher net pricing at Land Rover, partially offset by unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates and adverse mix.  Volvo incurred a loss for the full year.  Full-year revenue for PAG was $33.2 billion, compared with $30.0 billion in 2006.
Premier Automotive Group (PAG):
For the fourth quarter, PAG reported a $59 million profit, compared with $174 million in the same period a year ago.  The decline was more than explained by Volvo, primarily reflecting adverse currency exchange rates, product mix, and the non-repeat of one-time profit impacts included in 2006 results.  Within PAG, Volvo was breakeven, with the combined Jaguar and Land Rover operations accounting for the profit.  PAG revenue for the quarter was $9.0 billion, compared with $8.6 billion a year ago.
5
For full-year 2007, Asia Pacific and Africa reported a pre-tax profit of $40 million, compared with a pre-tax loss of $185 million a year ago.  The improvement primarily reflected favorable cost performance and net revenue, and higher profits from our Chinese joint ventures, partially offset by adverse mix and exchange.  Full-year revenue was $7.0 billion, compared with $6.5 billion a year ago.
Asia Pacific and Africa:
For the fourth quarter, Asia Pacific and Africa reported a pre-tax profit of $10 million, compared with a pre-tax loss of $135 million a year ago.  The improvement primarily reflected favorable net revenue, improved cost performance, and higher profits in China.  Fourth-quarter revenue was $1.7 billion, compared with $1.4 billion in 2006.
For the full year, Ford earned $204 million from its investment in Mazda and associated operations, compared with $168 million in 2006.  Ford earned $83 million from its investment in Mazda and associated operations in the fourth quarter, compared with $51 million a year ago.
Mazda:
Other Automotive, which consists of interest and financing-related costs, accounted for a full-year pre-tax loss of $547 million, compared with a pre-tax profit of $247 million in 2006.  The decline primarily reflected the non-recurrence of last years tax-related interest income of about $670 million, and higher net interest expense associated with financing implemented during the fourth quarter of 2006.
Other Automotive:
Fourth-quarter Other Automotive results included a pre-tax loss of $128 million, compared with a pre-tax loss of $59 million a year ago.  The change was more than explained by higher net interest expense.
FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR
For the full year, the Financial Services sector earned a pre-tax profit of $1.2 billion, compared with a pre-tax profit of $2.0 billion in 2006.  For the fourth quarter, the Financial Services sector earned $269 million, compared with $416 million a year ago.
Ford Motor Credit Company reported net income of $775 million in 2007, down from earnings of $1.3 billion a year ago.  On a pre-tax basis, Ford Motor Credit earned $1.2 billion in 2007, down $738 million from 2006.  The decrease in full-year earnings primarily reflected the non-recurrence of credit loss reserve reductions, higher borrowing costs, higher depreciation expense for leased vehicles and higher costs due to Ford Motor Credits North American business transformation initiative.  These factors were partially offset by lower net losses related to market valuation adjustments from derivatives and improved operating costs.
Ford Motor Credit Company:
6
In the fourth quarter of 2007, Ford Motor Credit's net income was $186 million, down $93 million from a year earlier.  On a pre-tax basis, Ford Motor Credit earned $263 million in the fourth quarter, compared with $406 million in the previous year.  The decrease in fourth quarter earnings primarily reflected the non-recurrence of credit loss reserve reductions, higher borrowing costs and higher depreciation expense for leased vehicles, offset partially by lower expenses and the non-recurrence of losses related to market valuation adjustments from derivatives.
2008 OUTLOOK
Although our Automotive operations are improving on a year-over-year basis, the U.S. economy is slowing and the outlook for the auto industry remains challenging, said Mulally.  To help ensure we are able to deliver our commitments despite the difficult external environment, we will be taking further cost reduction actions in North America, including enterprise-wide UAW buyouts.  In addition, we will continue to accelerate the flow of new products, reduce vehicle complexity, and adjust production to the changing business environment.
The 2008 planning assumptions regarding the industry, operating metrics and profit outlook include:
7
CONFERENCE CALL DETAILS
Ford Motor Company [NYSE:F] will release fourth quarter and full year 2007 financial results at 7 a.m. EST, Thursday, Jan. 24. The following briefings will be held after the announcement:
At 9 a.m. EST, Alan Mulally, president and chief executive officer, and Don Leclair, executive vice president and chief financial officer, will host a conference call for news media and the investment community to discuss fourth quarter and full year results.
Following the earnings call, at 11 a.m. EST, Ford Senior Vice President and Controller Peter Daniel, Ford Vice President and Treasurer Neil Schloss and Ford Motor Credit Company Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer K.R. Kent will host a conference call for fixed income analysts and investors.
The presentations (listen-only) and supporting materials will be available on the Internet at .  Representatives of the news media and the investment community participating by teleconference will have the opportunity to ask questions following the presentations.
www.shareholder.ford.com
8
Ford Motor Company, a global automotive industry leader based in Dearborn, Mich., manufactures or distributes automobiles in 200 markets across six continents.  With about 245,000 employees and about 100 plants worldwide, the companys core and affiliated automotive brands include Ford, Jaguar, Land Rover, Lincoln, Mercury, Volvo and Mazda.  The company provides financial services through Ford Motor Credit Company.  For more information regarding Fords products, please visit .
www.ford.com
+           The financial results discussed herein are presented on a preliminary basis; final data will be included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2007.
++        Earnings per share from continuing operations, excluding special items, is calculated on a basis that includes pre-tax profit and provision for taxes and minority interest. See tables following Safe Harbor/Risk Factors for the nature and amount of these special items and a reconciliation to U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP").
+++     See tables following Risk Factors for reconciliation to GAAP.
++++  See third table following Risk Factors for a reconciliation of Automotive gross cash to GAAP.
9
Safe Harbor/
Risk Factors
Statements included herein may constitute 
forward-looki
ng statements
within the meaning of th
e Private Securities Litigation
Reform
 
Act of 1995.  Forward-looking statements are based on expectations, forecasts and assumptions by our management and involve a number of risks, uncertainties,
 
and other factors th
at could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated, including, without limitation:
We cannot be certain that any expectation, forecast or assumption made by management in preparing forward-looking statements will prove accurate, or that any projection will be realized.  It is to be expected that there may be differences between projected and actual results.  Our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of their initial issuance, and we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.  For additional discussion of these risks, see "Item 1A. Risk Factors" in our 2006 Form 10-K Report.
10
2007 FOURTH QUARTER INCOME /(LOSS) FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS (EXCLUDING SPECIAL ITEMS) COMPARED WITH NET INCOME/(LOSS)
11
TOTAL COMPANY 2007 SPECIAL ITEMS
AUTOMOTIVE GROSS CASH RECONCILIATION TO GAAP
*
Historically, amounts accessible within 18 months  Short-Term VEBA will no longer be reported within gross cash as of Jan. 1, 2008, consistent with new UAW VEBA agreement, which is subject to court approval
 
 
 
12

 
Exhibit 99.2
N
EWS
 
 
 
For Immediate Release
FORD, ACH AND NEAPCO DRIVELINES SIGN FINAL AGREEMENTS FOR SALE OF AUTOMOTIVE COMPONENTS HOLDINGS DRIVESHAFT BUSINESS
DEARBORN,
Mich., Jan. 23 2008 
,
Ford Motor Company, Automotive Components Holdings LLC and Neapco Drivelines, LLC today signed definitive agreements for the sale of the ACH driveshaft business currently located in the ACH Monroe (Mich.) Plant.  The transfer of the business will begin next week and continue through the rest of the year.
This announcement follows the recentUAW ratification of the collective bargaining agreement negotiated with Neapco.
 
   
 
   
Neapco is opening a 345,000 sq. ft.state-of-the-art manufacturing facility in
 
 
Van Buren Township
, Mich.  Approximately 300 salaried and hourly employees from the Monroe Plant and associated technical and support staffs are being offered positions at the new facility.
Approximately 30 percent of the Monroe Plants 1,100 employees are associated with the driveshaft business.  The majority of the salaried employees currently are leased to ACH from Visteon and the majority of the UAW hourly employees are leased from Ford.
This is another sign of progress toward achievement of our ACH strategy and our pathway to profitability in North America in 2009, said Mark Fields, Ford executive vice president and president of The Americas.
Added Bill Connelly, CEO, Automotive Components Holdings:  This is our third sale and the first involving a U.S. business.  It represents another important step toward our goal to improve the competitiveness of these operations under new ownership and improve Fords material costs.
Neapco Drivelines, LLC and its parent company, Neapco LLC, are headquartered in Pottstown, Pa.  Wanxiang Group, which is headquartered in Hangzhou, China, is the majority investor in Neapco, LLC.  Neapco, LLC supplies drivelines, steering shafts and components for OEM and aftermarket automotive, truck, agricultural, off-highway and specialty vehicle applications from its facilities in Pennsylvania, Nebraska and Mexico.
We are pleased to add the Ford driveshaft business and the expertise of the ACH people to our organization, said Robert Hawkey, Neapco president and CEO.  The Wanxiang Group and Neapco are growing globally through strategic acquisitions of innovative driveline products and technologies.  We are very appreciative of the support and encouragement we have received from the state, the local community and the United Auto Workers to maintain this business in Michigan.
 
A
utomotive Components Holdings was
established by Ford
Motor Company
in October 2005 to ensure the flow of quality components and systems to Ford
, while
 
the 17 ACH plants, formerly owned by Visteon, are prepared for sale or other disposition.  After this sale is complete, ACH will have 11 plants supported by about
 
10,500
 
leased hourly and salaried employees.
About Ford Motor Company
Ford Motor Company, a global automotive industry leader based in Dearborn, Mich., manufactures or distributes automobiles in 200 markets across six continents. With about 260,000 employees and about 100 plants worldwide, the companys core and affiliated automotive brands include Ford, Jaguar, Land Rover, Lincoln, Mercury Volvo and Mazda. The company provides financial services through Ford Motor Credit Company. For more information regarding the company and its products visit .
www.ford.com


