FILE:F/F-8K-20080201155557.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
- 2 -
 
.
Item 8.01. Other Events
Our news release dated February 1, 2008 concerning U.S. retail sales of Ford vehicles in January 2008, filed as Exhibit 99 to this report, is incorporated by reference herein.
.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
- 3 -
 
 
 

 
EWS
N
IMMEDIATE RELEASE
FORD CROSSOVERS STAYED HOT IN JANUARY
DEARBORN,
Mich., Feb. 1, 2008  Demand for Fords crossovers remained strong in January.  Sales for the Ford Edge were 95 percent higher than a year ago and the Lincoln MKX was up 78 percent.
Retail demand for Ford, Lincoln and Mercury cars also was strong in January, especially for the new Focus.  Sales for the Focus were up 44 percent compared with a year ago, with retail sales up 33 percent.  Combined retail sales for the Ford Fusion, Mercury Milan, and Lincoln MKZ also were higher than a year ago.
Were very pleased with this result, said Jim Farley, Fords group vice president, Marketing and Communications.  Our dealers really delivered this month, despite a challenging economic and competitive environment.
Its not going to get any easier  at least for awhile, said Farley.  Recent monetary actions and the proposed stimulus package may help the economy later this year, but were not pinning our hopes on that.  Our plan is based on restructuring our business to be profitable at lower demand and changed mix while also accelerating the development of new products people want to buy.
 
 
The next wave of new Ford products will arrive this summer  the distinctively designed Ford Flex crossover and the elegant Lincoln MKS sedan.  A new Ford F-150 pickup truck will debut later in the fall.
Ford, Lincoln and Mercury sales totaled 148,355, down 4 percent compared with a year ago.
Total Ford Motor Company sales, including Jaguar, Land Rover, and Volvo, were 159,914, down 4 percent.
Note: The sales data included in this release and the accompanying tables are based largely on data reported by dealers representing their sales to retail and fleet customers.
About Ford Motor Company
Ford Motor Company, a global automotive industry leader based in Dearborn, Mich., manufactures or distributes automobiles in 200 markets across six continents.  With about 245,000 employees and about 100 plants worldwide, the companys core and affiliated automotive brands include Ford, Jaguar, Land Rover, Lincoln, Mercury, Volvo and Mazda.  The company provides financial services through Ford Motor Credit Company.  For more information regarding Fords products, please visit . 
www.ford.com
 
 Go to for news releases and high-resolution photographs.
http://media.ford.com


