FILE:F/F-8K-20081107083110.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Ford Motor Company ("Ford") hereby incorporates by reference its earnings news release dated November 7, 2008, which is filed as Exhibit 99 hereto.
Ford will conduct two conference calls on November 7, 2008 to review preliminary third quarter 2008 financial results.  Beginning at 9:00 a.m., Ford's President and Chief Executive Officer Alan Mulally and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Lewis Booth will host a presentation for the investment community and news media to discuss Ford's preliminary financial results.  Investors may access this presentation by dialing 800-573-4754 (or 1-617-224-4325 from outside the United States).  The passcode for either telephone number is a verbal response of "Ford Earnings."
At 11:00 a.m., Ford Senior Vice President and Controller Peter Daniel, Ford Vice President and Treasurer Neil Schloss, and Ford Motor Credit Company Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer K.R. Kent will host a presentation for fixed income analysts and investors.  Investors may access this presentation using the same dial-in information as above, with the passcode being a verbal response of "Ford Fixed Income."
A listen-only webcast and supporting presentation materials for these calls is available on the Internet at .  Investors may also access replays for one week following the presentations by dialing 888-286-8010 (or 1-617-801-6888 from outside the United States).  The passcode for replays of the earnings call is 29481628; the passcode for replays of the fixed income call is 55865600.  All times referenced above are in Eastern Time.
www.shareholder.ford.com
Please note that Exhibit 99 to this Form 8-K discusses revenue and profits excluding special items for Ford's Automotive and Financial Services sectors and for the primary operating segments and business units therein.  The most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles are revenue and profits including special items.  We believe that revenue and profits excluding special items are useful measures to provide investors, because they exclude those items that we do not consider to be indicative of earnings from ongoing operating activities.  As a result, revenue and profits excluding special items provide investors with more relevant measures of the results generated by our operations.
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
As disclosed in Exhibit 99, we are eliminating performance bonuses for 2008 for salaried employees, including our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, and other named executive officers, under our Annual Incentive Compensation Plan Metrics for 2008 (originally filed as Exhibit10-O-2 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007).
.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
  

 
N
EWS
IMMEDIATE RELEASE
FORD REPORTS 3Q $129 MILLION NET LOSS; FURTHER COST AND CASH IMPROVEMENTS PLANNED TO CONTINUE IMPLEMENTING PRODUCT-LED TRANSFORMATION AND OFFSET GLOBAL INDUSTRY WEAKNESS
+
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
See end notes on page 9.
DEARBORN, Mich., Nov. 7, 2008  Ford Motor Company [NYSE: F] today reported a third quarter net loss of $129 million, or 6 cents per share.  This compares with a net loss of $380 million, or 19 cents per share, in the third quarter of 2007.  Fords third quarter pre-tax operating loss from continuing operations, excluding special items, was $2.7 billion, down from a $194 million profit a year ago.
 
 
 
The company also today announced additional actions to reduce costs and improve Automotive gross cash to enable Ford to continue to implement its product-led transformation plan despite the continued weakness in the global automotive market and economic environment.
Improvement actions include: an additional 10 percent reduction in North American salaried personnel-related costs; a reduction in capital spending enabled by efficiencies in Fords global engineering and product development; a reduction in manufacturing, information technology, and advertising costs due to the companys One Ford global operations; and a reduction of inventories globally.  Ford also said it would continue to explore divestitures of non-core assets and utilize equity-for-debt swaps and other incremental sources of financing to strengthen the companys balance sheet.
At the same time, Ford reiterated its continued investment in the smaller, more fuel-efficient, high-quality products that will result in a more balanced global portfolio.  Ford confirmed that nearly all planned product programs remain on track and on time  aside from a few select vehicles that will be deferred until industry volumes recover.  Ford will, however, reduce spending for large vehicles in declining segments.
We continue to take fast and decisive action implementing our plan and responding to the rapidly changing business environment, said Ford President and CEO Alan Mulally.  We have a strategy that is broad and specific enough to handle the dramatic changes in todays environment.  We will continue to assess the rapidly changing business environment and modify implementation of our plan accordingly.
 
THIRD QUARTER 2008 RESULTS
On an after-tax basis, Fords third quarter operating loss from continuing operations, excluding special items, was about $3 billion, or $1.31 per share, compared with a loss of $24 million, or 1 cent per share, a year ago.
Fords third quarter revenue was $32.1 billion, down from $41.1 billion a year ago.  The decline reflects lower volume, the sale of Jaguar Land Rover, changing product mix and lower net pricing, partly offset by favorable changes in currency exchange rates.
 
2
 
Special items improved pre-tax results by $2.2 billion in the third quarter, or $1.25 per share, which is primarily due to the retiree health care curtailment gain in excess of $2 billion related to the approval of the retiree health care settlement agreement with the United Auto Workers.
Automotive gross cash, including cash and cash equivalents, net marketable securities and loaned securities, was $18.9 billion on Sept. 30, down from $26.6 billion at the end of the second quarter.  The decrease primarily reflects Automotive pre-tax operating losses, changes in working capital and other timing differences, and upfront subvention payments to Ford Credit.
Fords Automotive cash flow during the third quarter was significantly affected by a number of unique factors during the quarter, including the decision to reduce truck production to allow for an orderly sell-down of dealer inventories to make way for new models.  Overall, Fords global third quarter production levels were more than 100,000 units below retail sales and nearly 500,000 units below the second quarter levels.  This had a substantial impact on profits, and the decline in production resulted in about a $3 billion reduction in payables during the quarter.
Strengthening our balance sheet has been and remains a core element of our transformation plan, said Lewis Booth, Ford executive vice president and chief financial officer.  We were fortunate to have gone to the markets at the right time two years ago to obtain significant liquidity to implement our plan and invest in the new products that will secure our future.  We will continue to aggressively reduce costs and manage our cash with absolute discipline to ensure we have the resources to fund our plan going forward.
In addition, Ford said it will continue working with a number of governments around the world to maximize the availability of funding to provide further protection against the uncertain economic environment that the entire automotive industry is facing.
  
 
THIRD QUARTER 2008 HIGHLIGHTS
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR
For the third quarter of 2008, Fords worldwide Automotive sector reported a pre-tax loss of $2.9 billion, compared with a pre-tax loss of $362 million during the same period a year ago.
The deterioration was due to lower volume and unfavorable mix, particularly for North America and Volvo, unfavorable net interest expense and related fair-market value adjustments, and lower net pricing, partly offset by favorable cost changes.
Worldwide Automotive revenue in the third quarter was $27.8 billion, down from $36.3 billion a year ago.  The decline reflected lower volume, the sale of Jaguar Land Rover, unfavorable product mix and lower net pricing, partly offset by favorable changes in currency exchange rates.
Total vehicle wholesales in the third quarter were 1,174,000, compared with 1,487,000 units a year ago.
For the third quarter, Ford North America reported a pre-tax loss of $2.6 billion, compared with a loss of $1 billion a year ago.  The decline reflected unfavorable volume and mix, and unfavorable net pricing, partly offset by cost changes.  Unfavorable volume and mix primarily reflected a decline in the U.S. industry volumes, changing product mix, lower dealer stocks and lower market share.  Third quarter revenue was $10.8 billion, down from $16.7 billion a year ago.
North America:
 
4
 
For the third quarter, Ford South America reported a pre-tax profit of $480 million, compared with $386 million a year ago.  The increase reflected higher net pricing, favorable volume and mix, and favorable changes in currency exchange rates, partly offset by higher net product costs.  Third quarter revenue was $2.7 billion, up from $2.1 billion a year ago.
South America:
For the third quarter, Ford Europe reported a pre-tax profit of $69 million, compared with      $293 million a year ago.  The decline was primarily due to unfavorable cost changes (unfavorable mark-to-market adjustments for commodity hedges) and currency exchange, partly offset by net pricing.  Third quarter revenue was $9.7 billion, up from $8.3 billion a year ago.
Europe:
For the third quarter, Volvo reported a pre-tax loss of $458 million, compared with a loss of     $167 million a year ago.  The decline was due to unfavorable volume and mix.  Third quarter revenue was $2.9 billion, down from with $3.8 billion a year ago.  As part of its restructuring, Volvo plans a total reduction of 6,000 employees worldwide, including 1,200 agency employees.
Volvo:
For the third quarter, Ford Asia Pacific and Africas pre-tax profit of $4 million compares with $30 million a year ago.  The decline was due to unfavorable volume and mix, partly offset by favorable net pricing.  Third quarter revenue was $1.7 billion, down from $1.8 billion a year ago.
Asia Pacific and Africa:
Ford lost $1 million from its investment in Mazda and associated operations in the third quarter, compared with a profit of $14 million a year ago.
Mazda:
Other Automotive, which consists primarily of interest and financing-related costs, reported a third quarter pre-tax loss of $411 million.  This included net interest expense of $440 million.
Other Automotive:
FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR
 
For the third quarter, the Financial Services sector reported a pre-tax profit of $159 million, compared with $556 million a year ago.
Ford Credit reported a pre-tax profit of $161 million in the third quarter, compared with $546 million a year ago.  The decline primarily reflected the non-recurrence of net gains related to market valuation adjustments from derivatives, a higher provision for credit losses, and lower volume, partly offset by a higher financing margin.
Ford Motor Credit Company:
 
5
 
OUTLOOK
Ford said it is more focused than ever on implementing its transformation plan to respond to the significant challenges presented by the continued global economic downturn.  Fords plan includes:
 
 
 
 
These are challenging and historic times for the global automotive industry, but I am more convinced than ever that Ford has the right plan to see us through, Mulally said.  Ford remains well positioned to take advantage of our global scale and global product strengths worldwide, and we will continue to take the decisive steps necessary to operate through the current downturn and be in a position to begin to grow profitably again as the global economy rebounds.
Ford said its plan to deliver more of the safe, affordable, high-quality, fuel-efficient vehicles that consumers want and value remains solidly in place.  The plan includes:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To support new product investments and offset continued industry weakness, Ford is implementing actions to improve Automotive cash by a total of $14 billion to $17 billion through 2010.
 
6
 
The actions include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fords actions are based on the expectation that the global auto industry downturn will be deeper, broader and longer than was previously assumed.  Industry volumes next year are expected to decline compared with 2008 levels.  Ford said it will continue to adjust its production in line with the lower demand.
Fords 2008 planning assumptions regarding the industry, operating metrics and profit outlook are as follows:
 
7
 
Fords production volumes are shown below:
 
CONFERENCE CALL DETAILS
Ford Motor Company [NYSE:F] releases its third quarter 2008 financial results at 7 a.m. EST today.  The following briefings will be conducted after the announcement:
At 9 a.m. EST, Alan Mulally, president and chief executive officer, and Lewis Booth, executive vice president and chief financial officer, will host a call for the investment community and news media to discuss third quarter results.
At 11 a.m. EST, Peter Daniel, Ford senior vice president and controller, Neil Schloss, Ford vice president and treasurer, and K.R. Kent, Ford Motor Credit Company vice chairman and chief financial officer, will host a conference call for fixed income analysts and investors.
The presentations (listen-only) and supporting materials will be available on the Internet at .  Representatives of the news media and the investment community participating by teleconference will have the opportunity to ask questions following the presentations.
www.shareholder.ford.com
 
 
 
8
 
Ford Motor Company, a global automotive industry leader based in Dearborn, Mich., manufactures or distributes automobiles across six continents.  With about 224,000 employees and about 90 plants worldwide, the companys core and affiliated automotive brands include Ford, Lincoln, Mercury, Volvo and Mazda. The company provides financial services through Ford Motor Credit Company.  For more information regarding Fords products, please visit .
www.ford.com
 
Safe Harbor/Risk Factors
Statements included herein may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Forward-looking statements are based on expectations, forecasts and assumptions by our management and involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated, including, without limitation:
 
9
 
We cannot be certain that any expectation, forecast or assumption made by management in preparing forward-looking statements will prove accurate, or that any projection will be realized.  It is to be expected that there may be differences between projected and actual results.  Our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of their initial issuance, and we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.  For additional discussion of these risks, see Item 1A. Risk Factors in our 2007 Form 10-K Report and subsequent Form 10-Q Reports.
 
10
 
THIRD QUARTER AND FIRST NINE MONTHS 2008 NET INCOME/(LOSS) COMPARED WITH 2007
THIRD QUARTER AND FIRST NINE MONTHS 2008 INCOME/(LOSS) FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS COMPARED WITH 2007
*Special items detailed in table on pages 12-13
 
11
 
 
12
 
 
13
 
AUTOMOTIVE GROSS CASH RECONCILIATION TO U.S. GAAP
AUTOMOTIVE OPERATING-RELATED CASH FLOWS RECONCILIATION TO U.S. GAAP*
*   Except as noted, 2008 data excludes Jaguar Land Rover.
** Includes Jaguar Land Rover
 
14


