FILE:F/F-8K-20080522105345.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Material Impairments	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Material Impairments
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
.
Item 2.06. Material Impairments
On May 21, 2008, we concluded that a material impairment charge to fixed assets in our North America Automotive operations is required, based upon the financial impact of rapidly-changing U.S. market conditions.  These changing market conditions include the more pronounced and accelerated shift away from trucks and traditional sport utility vehicles to smaller and more fuel-efficient vehicles, the greater-than-anticipated escalation of commodity costs, and our current projection of lower-than-previously-anticipated industry volume, as described in Exhibit 99 hereto.  At this time, we cannot reasonably estimate the amount of the impairment.
.
Item 8.01. Other Events
Our news release dated May 22, 2008, filed as Exhibit 99 hereto, is incorporated by reference herein.
 
.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
-2-
 
 
 
-3-

EWS
N
IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
FORD ADJUSTS PRODUCTION TO LOWER INDUSTRY VOLUME AND SHIFT IN CUSTOMER PREFERENCES; PROFIT OUTLOOK REVISED
 
 
 
 
 
DEARBORN, Mich., May 22, 2008  Ford Motor Company [NYSE: F] today said it is making adjustments to its production plan and revising downward its near-term North American Automotive profit outlook, while planning further manufacturing capacity realignments, additional cost reductions and changes to its product mix to respond to the rapidly changing business environment in the U.S.
The company said it is increasing 2008 North American production of the hot-selling Ford Focus, Fusion, Edge and Escape, Mercury Milan and Mariner, as well as the Lincoln MKZ and Lincoln MKX.  At the same time, Ford is reducing 2008 production of large trucks and SUVs, as gas prices soar and customers move more quickly to smaller and more fuel-efficient cars and crossovers.
 
 
 
We are continuing to make great progress on our plan, said Ford President and CEO Alan Mulally.  We are profitable and growing outside of North America, and our transformation plan in North America is working.  The challenge affecting the entire industry is the accelerating shift in consumer demand away from large trucks and SUVs to smaller cars and crossovers  combined with a steep rise in commodity prices and the weak U.S. economy.
Ford said it now plans to produce 690,000 vehicles in North America during the second quarter, a further reduction of 20,000 units from previously announced planned production levels and a decline of 15 percent from the second quarter of 2007.  The company plans to produce between 510,000 and 540,000 units in the third quarter, down 15 to 20 percent from the same period last year.  Fourth-quarter production is expected to be between 590,000 and 630,000 units, down 2 to 8 percent from year-ago levels.
The second-half production plan includes higher car and crossover production compared with a year ago and will be achieved through overtime and added shifts at Fords smaller car and crossover assembly plants.  Large truck and SUV production in the second half will be lower than a year ago, with reductions achieved through a combination of additional downtime, shift reductions and line-speed actions.
The lower overall production, dramatic model mix shifts and substantially higher commodity costs are forcing a change in Fords near-term financial outlook, the company said.
Rapidly rising commodity prices  particularly steel prices  and higher gasoline prices that are accelerating consumers shift away from large trucks and SUVs together are having a tremendous impact on our sales, our manufacturing operations and our profitability as we look to 2009, said Mark Fields, Fords President of The Americas.
Unless there is a fairly rapid turnaround in U.S. business conditions, which we are not anticipating, it now looks like it will take longer than expected to achieve our North American Automotive profitability goal, Mulally said.  Overall, we expect to be about break-even companywide in 2009  with continued strong results in Europe and South America.
 
2
 
Given the external challenges, Ford said it is more critical than ever to continue executing its transformation plan, which includes:
 
The most important thing we can do right now is to continue to take decisive action implementing our plan to respond to the rapidly changing business environment, Mulally said.
Ford remains on track to reduce by $5 billion its annual North American Automotive operating costs by the end of 2008  at constant volume, mix, and exchange and excluding special items  compared with 2005.  However, further cost reductions and recognition of anticipated retiree health care savings from Fords recent UAW labor agreement will be needed to offset higher commodity costs.  Ford previously had anticipated that ongoing retiree health care savings in 2008 would allow it to exceed the $5 billion target.
In addition, the company said it is planning further manufacturing capacity realignments, as it accelerates the introduction of more fuel-efficient small cars and crossovers.
Cash outflows associated with operating losses and employee separations now are projected to be between $14 billion and $16 billion for 2007 to 2009.  This is a deterioration compared with previous guidance but remains better than the original $17 billion outflow projection.  Fords Automotive net liquidity remains substantial.  Total liquidity  including available credit lines, the majority of which are in place through Dec. 15, 2011  was $40.6 billion as of March 31.  Ford said it will continue to evaluate overall liquidity and alternatives to further improve its balance sheet.
Ford now expects 2008 U.S. industry volume, including medium and heavy trucks, to be between 15 million and 15.4 million units.  Ford, Lincoln and Mercury U.S. market share is expected to be approximately 14 percent this year  supported by the introduction of several new products.
 
3
 
We are making great progress on the acceleration of new products, and our initial quality is among the best in the business, Fields said.  The new Focus, Edge and Escape have had significant sales growth this year, and the pace of our product introductions accelerates even further this summer.
Production of the Ford Flex crossover and Lincoln MKS sedan is under way and soon will begin for the new generation of the F-150.  Ford also just introduced the 2009 Ford Escape and Mercury Mariner small utility vehicles.  They have new 4- and 6-cylinder engines with 11 and 20 percent more horsepower, respectively, and 5 percent better fuel economy, thanks to new engine technology, aerodynamic improvements and new six-speed transmissions.  In fact, Ford now offers more vehicles with fuel-saving six-speeds than any other automaker.
New versions of the Ford Fusion, Mercury Milan and Lincoln MKZ mid-size cars also debut later this year, as do all-new hybrid versions of the Fusion and Milan.
By the end of this year, 70 percent of all Ford, Lincoln and Mercury products by volume in North America will be new or significantly upgraded compared with 2006 models.  By the end of 2010, 100 percent of the product lineup will be new, including the next-generation Mustang in 2009, new fuel-saving EcoBoost engines in 2009, a new European-engineered Transit Connect in 2009 and all-new Ford Fiesta small car in 2010  as well as several other vehicles not yet announced.
As an example of working together and leveraging its global assets, Ford said that it is accelerating even further the North American introduction of many of the small cars and crossovers that the company profitably sells today in Europe and South America.
We remain absolutely committed to creating an exciting, viable Ford going forward  and to transforming Ford into a lean global enterprise delivering profitable growth over the long term, Mulally said.  We continue to make progress on every element of our plan, and we are taking steps in the near term to ensure our long-term success.
 
 
Ford Motor Company, a global automotive industry leader based in Dearborn, Mich., manufactures or distributes automobiles in 200 markets across six continents.  With about 244,000 employees and about 90 plants worldwide, the companys core and affiliated automotive brands include Ford, Lincoln, Mercury, Volvo, Mazda, and, until completion of their sale, Jaguar and Land Rover.  The company provides financial services through Ford Motor Credit Company.  For more information regarding Fords products, please visit .
www.ford.com
 
4
 
Risk Factors
Statements included or incorporated by reference herein may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Forward-looking statements are based on expectations, forecasts and assumptions by our management and involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated, including, without limitation:
We cannot be certain that any expectation, forecast or assumption made by management in preparing forward-looking statements will prove accurate, or that any projection will be realized.  It is to be expected that there may be differences between projected and actual results.  Our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of their initial issuance, and we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.  For additional discussion of these risks, see Item 1A. Risk Factors in our 2007 Form 10-K Report.
 
 
5


