FILE:F/F-8K-20081017161558.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 1.02. Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement.
.
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
Effective October 17, 2008, John R.H. Bond and Jorma Ollila have resigned from Ford's Board of Directors. Mr. Bond and Mr. Ollila have significant responsibilities within their own companies in Europe and each has recently added new responsibilities in advising governmental entities during these difficult economic times. Mr. Bond and Mr. Ollila informed the Board of Directors that they believe they could not devote the additional time and international travel that would be required of them as the Company responds to the unprecedented external environment and rapidly changing auto industry.
In addition to his board duties, Mr. Bond served as a member of the Finance Committee of the board and served as a consultant and senior advisor to our Executive Chairman, William Clay Ford, Jr. Mr. Bond's formal paid consultancy arrangement with the Company also terminates on October 17, 2008, although Mr. Bond may continue to act as an advisor to Mr. Ford on an informal, unpaid basis. Mr. Ollila served as a member of the Audit Committee and the Nominating and Governance Committee of the board.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


