FILE:F/F-8K-20081103164140.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
-2-
 
 
.
Item 8.01. Other Events
Our news release dated November 3, 2008 concerning U.S. retail sales of Ford vehicles in October 2008, filed as Exhibit 99 to this report, is incorporated by reference herein.
.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
-3-
 
 
 
 

 
 
EWS
N
313-323-9216
gpipas@ford.com
IMMEDIATE RELEASE
F-SERIES POWERS FORD TO HIGHEST RETAIL SHARE IN TWO YEARS; FLEX, LINCOLN MKS GAIN MORE RETAIL SHARE
DEARBORN,
Mich., Nov. 3, 2008  An economic gauntlet, the likes of which havent been seen in more than two decades, could not deter Fords best-selling F-Series truck.  Ford dealers celebrated Truck Month by delivering 43,324 F-Series in October.
October also marked the annual Texas Truck Rodeo competition conducted by the Texas Auto Writers Association, punctuated with the new F-150 besting all competitors to take the coveted Truck of Texas crown.
Were launching the new F-150 from a position of strength, said Jim Farley, Ford group vice president, Marketing and Communications.  The F-150 has raised the bar again with best-in-class capability and unsurpassed fuel economy.
Go to for news releases and high-resolution photographs.
http://media.ford.com
 
 
 
The 2009 model Ford F-150 has class-leading capability, delivering 11,300 pounds towing and 3,030 pounds payload and unsurpassed fuel economy of 21/15 highway/city mpg with the SFE package, which is available on F-150s highest volume XL and XLT series.
The national marketing launch of the F-150 began Sunday, Nov. 2, and nearly 3,000 new F-150s already were delivered to customers in October.
The companys strong retail sales performance in a challenging environment enabled Ford to post its highest retail share in more than two years.  In addition to the F-Series, the Ford Focus and Fusion sedans and Ford Escape and Mercury Mariner small utility vehicles contributed to the balanced retail performance.  In addition, the new Ford Flex crossover and Lincoln MKS sedan continued to gain retail share in their segments.
Our dealers delivered solid overall performance in October, said Farley.  Challenging external conditions present the best opportunity to challenge the competition.  In the next nine months, we will introduce nine new products plus two new hybrids, which together account for 45 percent of our volume in 2009.  Every new product will offer customers class-leading fuel economy and product quality thats on par with the best in the industry.
Ford, Lincoln and Mercury sales totaled 129,121 in October, down 29 percent compared with a year ago.
Note: The sales data included in this release and the accompanying tables are based largely on data reported by dealers representing their sales to retail and fleet customers.
About Ford Motor Company
 
Ford Motor Company, a global automotive industry leader based in Dearborn, Mich., manufactures or distributes automobiles across six continents. With about 229,000 employees and about 90 plants worldwide, the companys core and affiliated automotive brands include Ford, Lincoln, Mercury, Volvo and Mazda. The company provides financial services through Ford Motor Credit Company. For more information regarding Fords products, please visit our website at .
www.ford.com
 
 
Go to for news releases and high-resolution photographs.
http://media.ford.com
 
 


