FILE:F/F-8K-20090723085059.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Ford Motor Company ("Ford") hereby incorporates by reference its news release dated July 23, 2009, which is filed as Exhibit 99 hereto.
Ford will conduct two conference calls on July 23, 2009 to review preliminary second quarter 2009 financial results.  Beginning at 9:00 a.m., Ford's President and Chief Executive Officer Alan Mulally and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Lewis Booth will host a presentation for the investment community and news media to discuss Ford's preliminary financial results.  Investors may access this presentation by dialing 866-788-0547 (or 1-857-350-1685 from outside the United States).  The passcode for either telephone number is a verbal response of "Ford Earnings."
 
At 11:00 a.m., Ford Senior Vice President and Controller Peter Daniel, Ford Vice President and Treasurer Neil Schloss, and Ford Motor Credit Company Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer K.R. Kent will host a presentation for fixed income analysts and investors.  Investors may access this presentation by dialing 866-804-6920 (or 1-857-350-1666 from outside the United States).  The passcode for either telephone number is a verbal response of "Ford Fixed Income."
A listen-only webcast and supporting presentation materials for these calls is available on the Internet at .  Investors may also access replays of the presentations after 2:00 p.m. the day of the event through 2:00 p.m. on Thursday, July 30, 2009 by dialing 888-286-8010 (or 1-617-801-6888 from outside the United States).  The passcode for replays of the earnings call is 29481628; the passcode for replays of the fixed income call is 55865600.  All times referenced above are in Eastern Time.
www.shareholder.ford.com
Please note that Exhibit 99 to this Form 8-K at times discusses revenue and profits excluding special items for our Automotive and/or Financial Services sectors and the primary operating segments and business units therein.  The most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("U.S. GAAP") are revenue and profits including special items.  We believe that revenue and profits excluding special items are useful measures to provide investors, because they exclude those items that we do not necessarily consider to be indicative of earnings from ongoing operating activities.  As a result, revenue and profits excluding special items provide investors with relevant measures of the results generated by our operations.
In addition, Exhibit 99 discusses our key cash metrics, Automotive operating-related cash flow (which we believe best represents the ability of our Automotive operations to generate cash), and Automotive gross cash (including cash and cash equivalents, net marketable securities, and loaned securities).  We believe that Automotive operating-related cash flow is useful to investors because it includes elements that we consider to be related to our operating activities (e.g., capital spending), and excludes cash flow elements that we do not consider to be related to the ability of our operations to generate cash (e.g., tax refunds).  The most comparable U.S. GAAP measure is on our statement of cash flows.  The most comparable U.S. GAAP measure for Automotive gross cash is the sum of the individual line items on our balance sheet for each of the elements within that measure (,,and ).
Cash flows from operating activities of continuing operations
Cash and cash equivalents
Marketable securities
 
Loaned securities
 
- 2 -
 
.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
- 3 -
 
 
 
 
- 4 -

Exhibit 99
N
EWS
IMMEDIATE RELEASE
FORD POSTS SECOND QUARTER PRE-TAX OPERATING LOSS OF
$424 MILLION; GAINS MARKET SHARE, REDUCES CASH OUTFLOW
+
++
See end notes on page 10.
DEARBORN, Mich., July 23, 2009  Ford Motor Company [NYSE: F] today reported a pre-tax operating loss of $424 million in the second quarter of 2009, excluding special items  a $609 million improvement compared with the second quarter of last year  as cost reductions, net pricing, Ford Credit results and market share helped offset the continued impact of the severe global economic downturn.
 
+
 
 
 
On an after-tax basis, excluding special items, Ford posted an operating loss of $638 million in the second quarter, or $0.21 per share, compared with a loss of $1.4 billion, or $0.63 per share, a year ago.
 
+
Ford posted net income of $2.3 billion, or $0.69 per share.  These results compare with a net loss of $8.7 billion, or $3.89 per share, in the second quarter of 2008.  The results for the second quarter 2009 include a special items net gain totaling $2.8 billion, or $0.90 per share, which includes a $3.4 billion gain related to Ford and Ford Credits recent debt-reduction actions.
Fords second quarter revenue was $27.2 billion, down $11 billion from the same period a year ago.
 
+
While the business environment remained extremely challenging around the world, we made significant progress on our transformation plan, said Ford President and CEO Alan Mulally.  Our underlying business is growing progressively stronger as we introduce great new products that customers want and value, while continuing to aggressively restructure our business and strengthen our balance sheet.
In the second quarter, Ford completed several actions to strengthen its overall business, including:
Ford reached agreement with the UAW, subject to court and other approvals, to allow Ford the option to fund up to half of its VEBA obligations with Ford common stock at market prices instead of fixed prices in 2009, 2010 and 2011.  Ford finished the second quarter with $21 billion in Automotive gross cash, compared with $21.3 billion at the end of the first quarter of 2009.  Automotive operating-related cash flow was $1 billion negative during the second quarter of 2009, an improvement of $2.7 billion from the first quarter of 2009. Automotive operating-related cash flow was $4.7 billion negative during the first half; on track with Fords plan.
+++
Ford delivered a very solid quarter, and our transformation plan remains well on track, said Lewis Booth, Ford executive vice president and chief financial officer.  We strengthened our balance sheet, reduced cash outflows and improved our year-over-year financial results despite sharply lower industry volumes.
 
2
 
The following discussion of second quarter highlights and results are on a pre-tax basis and .  See tables following Safe Harbor/Risk Factors for the nature and amount of these special items and any necessary reconciliation to U.S. GAAP.  Discussion of Automotive operating cost changes is at constant volume, mix, and exchange, and excludes special items.
exclude special items
SECOND QUARTER HIGHLIGHTS
 
3
 
AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR
+
For the second quarter of 2009, Fords worldwide Automotive sector reported a pre-tax operating loss of $1 billion, compared with a pre-tax loss of $699 million a year ago.  The decline reflected lower industry volumes, actions to reduce dealer stocks, higher material costs and unfavorable exchange, largely offset by structural cost reductions, favorable net pricing and improved market share.
Worldwide Automotive revenue in the second quarter was $24 billion, down from $34.1 billion a year ago.  The decrease is primarily explained by lower volumes and unfavorable exchange, partly offset by favorable net pricing.  Total vehicle wholesales in the second quarter were 1,172,000, compared with 1,562,000 units a year ago.
Automotive structural cost reductions in the second quarter totaled $1.8 billion, including $1.2 billion in North America.  Manufacturing and engineering costs were $1.1 billion lower, largely reflecting the continued benefits of personnel actions in North America and Europe.  Overall, Ford reduced Automotive structural costs by $3.6 billion in the first half.
Net pricing was about $1.2 billion favorable, primarily explained by higher pricing in the U.S., reflecting the success of new products, including the Ford F-150, Ford Fusion and Ford Mustang, and the continuation of its disciplined approach on incentives.
 
4
 
For the second quarter, Ford North America reported a pre-tax loss of $851 million, compared with a loss of $1.3 billion a year ago.  The improvement was primarily explained by structural cost reductions, favorable net pricing and improved market share, partly offset by lower U.S. industry volume, a reduction in dealer stocks, higher material cost and unfavorable exchange.  Second quarter revenue was $10.8 billion, down from $14.2 billion a year ago.
North America:
For the second quarter, Ford South America reported a pre-tax profit of $86 million, compared with a profit of $388 million a year ago.  The decrease primarily reflects unfavorable exchange, higher commodity costs and lower volumes, partly offset by favorable net pricing and product mix.  Second quarter revenue was $1.9 billion, down from $2.4 billion a year ago.
South America:
For the second quarter, Ford Europe reported a pre-tax profit of $138 million, compared with a profit of $582 million a year ago.  The decline was primarily explained by lower industry volume, dealer stock reductions, higher material cost and unfavorable mix, partly offset by structural cost reductions, favorable net pricing and market share improvement.  European pre-tax results improved by about $700 million in the second quarter as compared to the first quarter of 2009.  This improvement primarily reflects higher industry volumes, a smaller decrease in dealer stocks, lower costs and favorable net pricing.  Second quarter revenue was $7.2 billion, down from $11.5 billion a year ago.
Europe:
For the second quarter, Volvo reported a pre-tax loss of $231 million, compared with a loss of $120 million a year ago.  The decline primarily reflected lower volumes, partly offset by continued progress on cost reductions and favorable exchange. Second quarter revenue was $2.9 billion, down from $4.3 billion a year ago.  Volvo is reported as an ongoing operation. The effects of held-for-sale accounting-related adjustments are reported as special items.
Volvo:
For the second quarter, Ford Asia Pacific and Africa reported a pre-tax loss of $25 million, compared with a profit of $50 million a year ago.  The decline is more than explained by adverse market mix, partly offset by lower costs.  Second quarter revenue was $1.2 billion, down from $1.7 billion a year ago.
Asia Pacific and Africa:
Other Automotive, which consists primarily of interest and financing-related costs, reported a second quarter pre-tax loss of $136 million.  This included net interest expense of $271 million, partly offset by fair market value adjustments, primarily attributable to our investment in Mazda.
Other Automotive:
 
5
 
FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR
+
For the second quarter, the Financial Services sector reported a pre-tax profit of $595 million, compared with a loss of $334 million a year ago.
Ford Credit reported a pre-tax profit of $646 million in the second quarter, compared with a pre-tax loss of $294 million a year ago.  The improvement primarily reflected lower depreciation expense for leased vehicles due to higher auction values, net gains related to unhedged currency exposures, a lower provision for credit losses and lower operating costs. These factors were partly offset by lower volume and non-recurrence of a gain related to the sale of approximately half of Ford Credits ownership interest in its Nordic operations.
Ford Motor Credit Company:
Other Financial Services reported a loss of $51 million in the second quarter, compared with a pre-tax loss of $40 million a year ago. The decline is more than explained by a loss related to a real estate transaction.
Other Financial Services:
OUTLOOK
Despite the severe global downturn, Ford said it continues to make progress on all four pillars of its plan:
Ford said it remains on track to achieve or exceed all of its 2009 financial targets and most of its operational metrics.
The company said it now expects full-year market share to improve compared to 2008 in the U.S. and Europe, reflecting share increases in the first half and strong reception to new product introductions.
Ford expects 2009 U.S. industry sales will be between 10.5 million and 11 million units, consistent with the outlook previously communicated by the company. Based on first half European industry volume, Ford now expects that Europes full-year industry sales will be in the range of 15 million to 15.5 million units, which is higher than the previous outlook.
 
6
 
Ford expects third quarter 2009 production to be up, compared with 2008 and second quarter 2009 production.  This increase is largely due to tightly controlled inventories and higher market demand for our products.
Ford remains on track to exceed its $4 billion Automotive structural cost reduction target for 2009.  Second half cost reductions will be less than the first half, reflecting the significant cost reductions achieved during the third and fourth quarters of 2008.
Ford expects Automotive operating-related cash flows in the second half to improve from first half levels consistent with its current planning assumptions. However, due to substantial improvements in the second quarter, third quarter levels may not improve sequentially.
Ford Credit expects its second half 2009 results to be lower than its first half 2009 results.  Ford Credit does not expect the net gains related to unhedged currency exposures or improvements in lease residual losses in the amounts experienced in the second quarter 2009 to continue.  A continuing decline in receivables will also contribute to lower second half 2009 results.
Based on its current planning assumptions, Ford has sufficient liquidity to fund its product-led transformation plan and provide a cushion against the uncertain global economic environment.  In addition, Ford will continue to pursue actions to improve its balance sheet.
The company remains on track to achieve its key 2011 financial targets, based on current planning assumptions, including overall and North American Automotive pre-tax results being breakeven or better, excluding special items, and Automotive operating-related cash flow being breakeven or better.
Our product-led transformation is working, and we are pleased with our progress in the second quarter, Mulally said.  While the economic environment remains challenging, I am more convinced than ever we are on the right path to create a healthy and profitably growing Ford.
 
7
 
Fords 2009 planning assumptions regarding the industry and operating metrics include the following:
 
 
Fords production volumes are shown below:
 
8
 
 
CONFERENCE CALL DETAILS
Ford Motor Company [NYSE:F] releases its second quarter 2009 financial results at 7 a.m. EDT today.  The following briefings will be conducted after the announcement:
At 9 a.m. EDT, Alan Mulally, Ford president and chief executive officer, and Lewis Booth, Ford executive vice president and chief financial officer, will host a call for the investment community and news media to discuss second quarter results.
At 11 a.m. EDT, Peter Daniel, Ford senior vice president and controller, Neil Schloss, Ford vice president and treasurer, and K.R. Kent, Ford Motor Credit Company vice chairman and chief financial officer, will host a conference call for fixed income analysts and investors.
The presentations (listen-only) and supporting materials will be available on the Internet at .  Representatives of the news media and the investment community participating by teleconference will have the opportunity to ask questions following the presentations.
www.shareholder.ford.com
 
 
Ford Motor Company, a global automotive industry leader based in Dearborn, Mich., manufactures or distributes automobiles across six continents.  With about 201,000 employees and about 90 plants worldwide, the companys brands include Ford, Lincoln, Mercury and Volvo.  The company provides financial services through Ford Motor Credit Company.  For more information regarding Fords products, please visit .
www.ford.com
 
9
 
 
10
 
Statements included herein may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Forward-looking statements are based on expectations, forecasts, and assumptions by our management and involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated, including, without limitation:
We cannot be certain that any expectation, forecast or assumption made by management in preparing forward-looking statements will prove accurate, or that any projection will be realized.  It is to be expected that there may be differences between projected and actual results.  Our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of their initial issuance, and we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.  For additional discussion of these risks, see Item 1A. Risk Factors in our 2008 Form 10-K Report and First Quarter 2009 Form 10-Q Report.
 
11
 
SECOND QUARTER & FIRST HALF 2009 NET INCOME/(LOSS) COMPARED WITH 2008
SECOND QUARTER & FIRST HALF 2009 INCOME/(LOSS) FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS
COMPARED WITH 2008
*Special items detailed in table on pages 13-14
 
12
 
 
 
13
 
 
 
14
 
AUTOMOTIVE GROSS CASH RECONCILIATION TO U.S. GAAP
AUTOMOTIVE OPERATING-RELATED CASH FLOWS RECONCILIATION TO U.S. GAAP*
*   Except where noted (see below) 2008 data excludes Jaguar Land Rover
** 2008 includes Jaguar Land Rover


