FILE:F/F-8K-20090803115426.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
.
Item 8.01. Other Events
Our news release dated August 3, 2009 concerning U.S. retail sales of Ford vehicles in July 2009, filed as Exhibit 99 to this report, is incorporated by reference herein.
.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
- 2 -
 
 
 
- 2 -

Exhibit 99
 
EWS
N
IMMEDIATE RELEASE
FORDS NEW FUEL-EFFICIENT VEHICLES PLUS CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM DRIVE SALES INCREASE IN JULY
 
DEARBORN,
Mich., Aug. 3, 2009  Customer demand for Fords fuel-efficient vehicles coupled with the U.S. governments Car Allowance Rebate System (Cash for Clunkers) enabled Ford to post the first sales increase of any major manufacturer in 2009.
Ford, Lincoln and Mercury dealers reported 118,197 retail sales in July, up 9 percent versus a year ago.  Total sales (including fleet customer deliveries) were 158,838, up 2 percent versus last year.
We had another strong month in progress before the Cash for Clunkers program started, said Ken Czubay, Ford vice president, U.S. Marketing, Sales and Service.
 
 
 
Our products, our dealers and our advance preparation enabled us to leverage the program and drive traffic and sales to another level, he added.  In addition, we achieved a sales increase even though we decreased incentive spending in an increasingly competitive environment.
July Sales Highlights
We have the freshest line of new products in the industry, said Czubay.  Were really encouraged by the growing number of consumers who are considering Ford for their next vehicle.
Internal and external studies show a positive trend in the percentage of consumers with favorable opinions about Ford, and growing numbers of consumers who are willing to consider purchasing a Ford vehicle, thanks to improved fuel economy, smart technology and higher residual values.
 
More new products are on the way.  The first new 2010 Ford Taurus sedans were delivered at the end of July, as well as the first Transit Connects.
 
 
 
The all-new Taurus is the smartest full-size sedan in America.  The Transit Connect, a small, fuel-efficient purpose-built van, is the first ONE Ford global vehicle to be sold in the United States.
This summer, Ford also will debut its EcoBoost engine technology in the Taurus SHO, Lincoln MKS, Ford Flex and all-new Lincoln MKT crossover vehicle.  In these vehicles, EcoBoost provides the fuel economy of a six-cylinder engine and the performance of a V-8.
Note: The sales data included in this release and the accompanying tables are based largely on data reported by dealers representing their sales to retail and fleet customers.
About Ford Motor Company
Ford Motor Company, a global automotive industry leader based in Dearborn, Mich. manufactures or distributes automobiles across six continents. With about 205,000 employees and about 90 plants worldwide, the company's automotive brands include Ford, Lincoln, Mercury and Volvo. The company provides financial services through Ford Motor Credit Company. For more information regarding Ford's products, please visit www.ford.com.
Go to http://media.ford.com for news releases and high-resolution photographs.
 
 


