FILE:F/F-8K-20090129080748.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Ford Motor Company ("Ford") hereby incorporates by reference its news release dated January 29, 2009, which is filed as Exhibit 99 hereto.
Ford will conduct two conference calls on January 29, 2009 to review preliminary fourth quarter and full-year 2008 financial results and 2009 outlook.  Beginning at 9:00 a.m., Ford's President and Chief Executive Officer Alan Mulally and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Lewis Booth will host a presentation for the investment community and news media to discuss Ford's preliminary financial results.  Investors may access this presentation by dialing 800-597-1926 (or 1-617-597-5525 from outside the United States).  The passcode for either telephone number is a verbal response of "Ford Earnings."
At 11:00 a.m., Ford Senior Vice President and Controller Peter Daniel, Ford Vice President and Treasurer Neil Schloss, and Ford Motor Credit Company Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer K.R. Kent will host a presentation for fixed income analysts and investors.  Investors may access this presentation by dialing 866-275-3409 (or 1-617-597-4027 from outside the United States).  The passcode for either telephone number is a verbal response of "Ford Fixed Income."
A listen-only webcast and supporting presentation materials for these calls is available on the Internet at .  Investors may also access replays of the presentations after 2 p.m. the day of the event through Thursday, February 5, 2009 by dialing 888-286-8010 (or 1-617-801-6888 from outside the United States).  The passcode for replays of the earnings call is 29481628; the passcode for replays of the fixed income call is 55865600.  All times referenced above are in Eastern Time.
www.shareholder.ford.com
Please note that Exhibit 99 to this Form 8-K discusses revenue and profits excluding special items for Ford's Automotive and Financial Services sectors and for the primary operating segments and business units therein.  The most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles are revenue and profits including special items.  We believe that revenue and profits excluding special items are useful measures to provide investors, because they exclude those items that we do not consider to be indicative of earnings from ongoing operating activities.  As a result, revenue and profits excluding special items provide investors with more relevant measures of the results generated by our operations.
.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
- 2 - -
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
- 3 - -
 
 
 
- 4 -

Exhibit 99
 
 
N
EWS
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
FORD REPORTS 4TH QUARTER 2008 NET LOSS OF $5.9 BILLION;       GAINED MARKET SHARE IN U.S., EUROPE, ACHIEVED COST TARGET
+
See end notes on page 11.
 
 
 
DEARBORN, Mich., Jan. 29, 2009  Ford Motor Company [NYSE: F] today reported a fourth quarter net loss of $5.9 billion, or $2.46 per share.  This compares with a net loss of $2.8 billion, or $1.33 per share, in the fourth quarter of 2007.
Fords fourth quarter pre-tax operating loss from continuing operations, excluding special items, was $3.7 billion, a decline from a loss of $620 million a year ago.  On an after-tax basis, Ford lost $3.3 billion in the fourth quarter or $1.37 per share, compared with a loss of $487 million, or 23 cents per share, a year ago.
++
Ford and the entire auto industry faced an extraordinary slowdown in all major global markets in the fourth quarter that clearly had an impact on our results, said Ford President and CEO Alan Mulally.  We continued to take the decisive actions necessary to lower production to match the lower worldwide demand and reduce costs, which we expect will allow us to significantly reduce negative operating cash flow in 2009 and position Ford for growth when the economy rebounds.
The progress we continued to make in the fourth quarter gives us great confidence that we have the right plan, the right people and the right products to create a viable, profitably growing Ford for all of our stakeholders, Mulally added.  Our market share growth in the fourth quarter in the U.S. and Europe is a positive sign that customers recognize the value of our new products and understand that a new and different Ford is emerging.
Based on current planning assumptions, Ford reiterated it has sufficient liquidity to fund its business plan and product investments.  Ford said it finished 2008 with $24 billion in available Automotive liquidity, including $13.4 billion in Automotive gross cash.  In January 2009, as permitted by its underlying agreement with the UAW, Ford converted the Temporary Asset Account funds into a new Ford note, payable at year-end.  This will provide the flexibility to utilize more than $2 billion of funds to support operations, if needed.  As a result, this amount will improve liquidity and be included as part of Fords Automotive gross cash beginning with the first quarter of 2009.
Ford also reconfirmed that, based on current planning assumptions, it does not need a bridge loan from the U.S. government, barring a significantly deeper economic downturn or a significant industry event, such as the bankruptcy of a major competitor that causes disruption to the companys supply base, dealers or creditors.
Ford also said it remains on track for both its overall and North American Automotive pre-tax results to be breakeven or profitable in 2011  excluding special items  based on current planning assumptions.
 
2
 
Due to concerns about the instability of the capital markets with the uncertain state of the global economy, Ford announced it is drawing its available credit lines.  The company said it expects to receive the funds on Feb. 3 and will add the $10.1 billion to its cash and reflect it on its first quarter 2009 balance sheet.
Ford went to the credit markets two years ago when they were functioning normally and obtained the funding necessary  including our credit lines  to support our product transformation and restructuring, Mulally said.  Given the instability of the capital markets with the uncertain state of the global economy, we believe it is prudent to draw these credit facilities at this time.
Also today, Ford said the United Auto Workers union has agreed to end the jobs bank at Ford, known as the Job Security program.  The company and the union presently are working out the details of implementation.
 
 
FOURTH QUARTER 2008 RESULTS
On an after-tax basis, Fords fourth quarter operating loss from continuing operations, excluding special items, was $3.3 billion, or $1.37 per share, compared with a loss of $487 million, or 23 cents per share, a year ago.
++
Fords fourth quarter revenue was $29.2 billion, down from $45.5 billion a year ago.  The decline is primarily explained by lower volume, the sale of Jaguar Land Rover and exchange translation.
++
Special items reduced pre-tax profits by $1.4 billion in the fourth quarter, or $1.09 per share, which largely reflected costs associated with global personnel reductions and retiree health care charges related to our VEBA agreement with the UAW, primarily reflecting losses on the Temporary Asset Account.
Overall, the companys Automotive gross cash was reduced by $5.5 billion in the fourth quarter, while its operating-related cash flow was $7.2 billion negative.   The change in gross cash primarily reflects:
++
 
3
 
Fords negative Automotive operating-related cash flow during the fourth quarter was significantly affected by declining global demand.  Ford said it expects operating-related cash outflows in 2009 to be significantly less than those incurred in 2008.  The expected improvement assumes, among other things, stabilization of trade payables as industry volumes begin to grow later in the year, lower capital spending, structural cost reductions, lower inventories and other factors.
Ford continues to take the decisive actions necessary to match our production in line with demand.  This allowed us to reduce dealer stock by about 50,000 units and benefit from one the lowest days supply in the U.S. industry, said Lewis Booth, Ford executive vice president and chief financial officer.
As production volumes stabilize, payables will stop declining and generally will grow as volumes recover.  In addition, with the major F-150 launch behind us, we expect spending to decline in 2009, Booth said.  We expect this will allow us to significantly reduce our negative operating cash flow in 2009 and maintain the liquidity we need to fund our product-led transformation.
 
 
FOURTH QUARTER 2008 HIGHLIGHTS
 
4
 
AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR
For the fourth quarter of 2008, Fords worldwide Automotive sector reported a pre-tax operating loss of $3.3 billion, compared with a pre-tax loss of $889 million during the same period a year ago.
The decline was due to sharply lower industry volumes and our actions to reduce dealer stocks, partly offset by favorable cost changes.
Worldwide Automotive revenue in the fourth quarter was $25.3 billion, down from $40.8 billion a year ago.  The decline is primarily explained by lower volume, the sale of Jaguar Land Rover and exchange translation.
 
5
 
Total vehicle wholesales in the fourth quarter were 1,138,000, compared with 1,643,000 units a year ago.
For the fourth quarter, Ford North America reported a pre-tax loss of $1.9 billion, compared with a loss of $1.5 billion a year ago.  The decline was more than explained by lower industry volume and lower dealer stocks, partly offset by cost reductions.  Fourth quarter revenue was $11.3 billion, down from $17.3 billion a year ago.
North America:
For the fourth quarter, Ford South America reported a pre-tax profit of $105 million, compared with $418 million a year ago.  The decline primarily reflects lower industry volume and higher material costs, partly offset by favorable net pricing. Fourth quarter revenue was $1.7 billion, down from $2.4 billion a year ago.
South America:
For the fourth quarter, Ford Europe reported a pre-tax loss of $330 million, compared with a profit of $223 million a year ago.  The decline was more than explained by lower industry volume, unfavorable exchange and lower dealer stocks, partly offset by cost reductions. Fourth quarter revenue was $7.6 billion, down from $10.4 billion a year ago.
Europe:
For the fourth quarter, Volvo reported a pre-tax loss of $736 million, compared with its breakeven position a year ago.   The decline primarily reflects lower industry volume, unfavorable net pricing and unfavorable exchange.  Fourth quarter revenue was $3.3 billion, down from $5.1 billion a year ago.
Volvo:
For the fourth quarter, Ford Asia Pacific and Africas pre-tax loss of $208 million compared with a profit of $10 million a year ago.  The decline primarily reflects lower industry volume, unfavorable exchange and adverse product mix.  Fourth quarter revenue was $1.4 billion, down from $1.7 billion a year ago.
Asia Pacific and Africa:
Ford reported a pre-tax profit of $79 million from its investment in Mazda in the fourth quarter, compared with a profit of $75 million a year ago.  This is the last quarter Ford will report its share of Mazda profits following the sale of a portion of our ownership stake in Mazda.
Mazda:
Other Automotive, which consists primarily of interest and financing-related costs, reported a fourth quarter pre-tax loss of $330 million.  This included net interest expense of $448 million.
Other Automotive:
 
6
 
FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR
 
For the fourth quarter, the Financial Services sector reported a pre-tax loss of $384 million, compared with a profit of $269 million a year ago.
Ford Credit reported a pre-tax loss of $372 million in the fourth quarter, compared with a pre-tax profit of $263 million a year ago.  The decline was primarily explained by a higher provision for credit losses, market valuation adjustments to derivatives and lower volume.  
Ford Motor Credit Company:
 
 
OUTLOOK
Despite the severe global downturn, Ford said it continues to make progress on all four pillars of its plan:
Ford anticipates weak volumes this year across all markets, with worldwide sales down more than 10 percent.  Significant government policy stimulus is being implemented in most markets and is expected to improve the environment for sales later this year.  However, financial markets remain under significant stress, and further government and central bank actions to provide liquidity and stabilize banks are needed, the company said.
For Ford, the year ahead will be marked by an unprecedented number of new product introductions.  In North America, 2009 sees the introduction and sale of upgraded gas and hybrid versions of the Ford Fusion mid-size sedan, new Ford Mustang  including a new convertible model and new Shelby GT500, new Ford Taurus and Taurus with fuel-saving EcoBoost engine, Ford Flex with EcoBoost, an entirely new type of small commercial van for the North American market called the Transit Connect, upgraded Mercury Milan and new Milan Hybrid, upgraded Lincoln MKZ, Lincoln MKS with EcoBoost, all-new Lincoln MKT three-row premium crossover and the first full sales year for the new Ford F-150 pickup.
In Europe, Ford will launch its fastest volume production model ever  the new 300 horsepower Focus RS. 2009 also marks the first full sales year for the Fiesta, while the new Ford Ka is introduced progressively across the region.  The Ford Kuga crossover will be available for the first time with a 2.5-litre 5-cylinder Duratec Turbo engine and Durashift 5-tronic automatic transmission, while Ford Individual vehicle personalization interior and exterior styling packs will be extended across the model range.
Volvo this year is launching the XC60 crossover in Europe now and in the U.S. market this spring.  Volvo also will introduce low-emission versions of seven cars, including the C30, S40, V50, V70, XC70, XC 60 and S80.  A freshened S80 comes later this year for Volvos flagship sedan
.
 
7
 
In Asia, 2009 sees the introduction in China of the all-new Ford Fiesta five-door and four-door sedan built in Nanjing.  The Fiesta also currently is being introduced in Australia and New Zealand.  Other product introductions in 2009 include the new Ranger compact pickup and the Everest SUV, both with advanced and efficient TDCi turbo-diesel engines.
In South America, 2009 provides still more evidence of the growing strength of the companys ONE Ford plan.  Ford is bringing to market the new European-based Ford Focus in Brazil, Argentina and Venezuela.  Plus, in Brazil, the North American-based Ford Edge arrives in dealerships, along with the European-based Transit.  Six additional product actions also are planned for introduction in the region this year.
Ford also is on track with its plan to invest in new, smaller, fuel-efficient vehicles and achieve a more balanced global product portfolio.  With the companys ONE Ford product development vision, all Ford vehicles competing in global segments will be common in North America, Europe and Asia within the next five years.  They include Fiesta- and Focus-sized small cars, Fusion- and Mondeo-sized mid-size cars and utilities, and commercial vans.
Importantly, every new product will be the best or among the best in its segment for fuel economy, while providing top quality, safety, smart technologies and value.
Fords leadership in connectivity and infotainment includes the addition of two newly added features to its award-winning SYNC technology  911 Assist and Vehicle Health Reports.  This summer, Ford SYNC will be further expanded with Traffic, Directions and Information technology.  The new services will be provided in with no monthly subscription fees for the first three years.
Ford also this month confirmed that its SYNC technology will be available globally beginning in 2010, starting in Europe and then migrating to Asia Pacific.
 
8
 
The company also said it is on track to deliver the plan announced in November to deliver $14 billion to $17 billion of cash improvements by 2010.
The actions announced in November include:
In addition, Ford is pursuing other restructuring opportunities in conjunction with our various stakeholders and will have more to discuss at a later date.
Based on current planning assumptions  many of which are outlined below  Ford reiterated that it remains on track for both its overall and North American Automotive pre-tax results to be at or above breakeven in 2011, excluding special items.
Despite the tough fourth quarter, we saw many positive developments that make us more confident than ever that we have the right plan and are taking the right actions to survive this downturn and emerge as a lean, globally integrated company poised for long-term profitable growth, Mulally said.
Fords 2008 planning assumptions and outcomes regarding the industry and operating metrics are as follows:
 
 
9
 
Fords 2009 planning assumptions regarding the industry and operating metrics include the following:
 
Fords production volumes are shown below:
 
 
CONFERENCE CALL DETAILS
Ford Motor Company [NYSE:F] releases its fourth quarter 2008 financial results at 7 a.m. EST today.  The following briefings will be conducted after the announcement:
At 9 a.m. EST, Alan Mulally, president and chief executive officer, and Lewis Booth, executive vice president and chief financial officer, will host a call for the investment community and news media to discuss fourth quarter results.
 
10
 
At 11 a.m. EST, Peter Daniel, Ford senior vice president and controller, Neil Schloss, Ford vice president and treasurer, and K.R. Kent, Ford Motor Credit Company vice chairman and chief financial officer, will host a conference call for fixed income analysts and investors.
The presentations (listen-only) and supporting materials will be available on the Internet at .  Representatives of the news media and the investment community participating by teleconference will have the opportunity to ask questions following the presentations.
www.shareholder.ford.com
Ford Motor Company, a global automotive industry leader based in Dearborn, Mich., manufactures or distributes automobiles across six continents.  With about 213,000 employees and about 90 plants worldwide, the companys wholly owned brands include Ford, Lincoln, Mercury and Volvo.  The company provides financial services through Ford Motor Credit Company.  For more information regarding Fords products, please visit .
www.ford.com
 
11
 
Safe Harbor/Risk Factors
Statements included herein may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Forward-looking statements are based on expectations, forecasts and assumptions by our management and involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated, including, without limitation:
We cannot be certain that any expectation, forecast or assumption made by management in preparing forward-looking statements will prove accurate, or that any projection will be realized.  It is to be expected that there may be differences between projected and actual results.  Our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of their initial issuance, and we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.  For additional discussion of these risks, see Item 1A. Risk Factors in our 2007 Form 10-K Report and subsequent Form 10-Q Reports.
 
12
 
 
FOURTH QUARTER
AND
FULL YEAR 2008
NET
INCOME/(LOSS) COMPARED WITH 2007
*  Special items detailed in table on pages 14-15
FOURTH QUARTER AND FULL YEAR 2008 INCOME/(LOSS) FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS COMPARED WITH 2007
*Special items detailed in table on pages 14-15
 
13
 
FOURTH QUARTER SPECIAL ITEMS
 
14
 
 
15
 
AUTOMOTIVE GROSS CASH RECONCILIATION TO U.S. GAAP
AUTOMOTIVE OPERATING-RELATED CASH FLOWS RECONCILIATION TO U.S. GAAP*


