FILE:F/F-8K-20090203171101.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
-2-
 
 
.
Item 2.03.  Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
Due to concerns about the instability in the capital markets with the uncertain state of the global economy, on January 29, 2009, we gave notice to borrow the total unused amount (i.e., $10.9 billion) under our $11.5 billion secured revolving credit facility entered into in December 2006.  On February 3, 2009, the requested borrowing date, the lenders under that facility advanced to us $10.1 billion.  As expected, the $890 million commitment of Lehman Commercial Paper Inc., one of the lenders under the facility, was not advanced because of Lehman Commercial Paper Inc. having filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code on October 5, 2008.  The $10.1 billion revolving loan will bear interest at LIBOR plus a margin of 2.25% and will mature on December 15, 2011.  For more information about this revolving credit facility, see Note 16 of the Notes to the Financial Statements published in our Current Report on Form 8-K dated June 2, 2008, which discussion of the revolving credit facility is incorporated herein by reference.
.
Item 8.01. Other Events
Our news release dated February 3, 2009 concerning U.S. retail sales of Ford vehicles in January 2009, filed as Exhibit 99 to this report, is incorporated by reference herein.
.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
-3-
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
-4-
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
EWS
N
 
313-323-9216
gpipas@ford.com
IMMEDIATE RELEASE
STRONG F-SERIES, FUSION SALES DRIVE FORD TO HIGHER RETAIL SHARE FOR FOURTH CONSECUTIVE MONTH
DEARBORN,
Mich., Feb. 3, 2009  Fords F-Series truck and Fusion mid-size sedan paced Ford to a fourth consecutive month of retail market share increases.  Ford estimates its share of the January retail market was 12.7 percent, up 0.3 point versus a year ago.  This marks the first time since 1995 Ford has achieved a retail market share increase four months in a row.
In January, Fords all-new F-150 truck picked up more accolades and market share.  In January, the F-150 was named North American Truck of the Year and earned a quadruple 5-star crash test rating from the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and a Top Safety Pick from the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety.  Best-in-class capability and safety ratings and unsurpassed fuel economy appear to be driving F-Series appeal among buyers.
In January, the Fusion posted its highest retail share since August 2006.  In March, the 2010 Fusion arrives in dealer showrooms as Americas most fuel-efficient mid-size sedan for both hybrid and conventional gasoline models.
Go to for news releases and high-resolution photographs.
http://media.ford.com
 
 
 
 
The new Fusion Hybrid delivers 41 mpg in the city and 36 mpg on highway, topping the Toyota Camry Hybrid by 8 mpg in the city and 2 mpg on the highway.  The new four-cylinder Ford Fusion S achieves 34 mpg on the highway and 23 mpg in the city, beating both the gasoline-powered Camry and Honda Accord.
The Ford Escape and Mercury Mariner small utility vehicles and the Lincoln MKS luxury sedan also contributed to Fords January market share increase.
Ford, Lincoln and Mercury sales totaled 90,596 in January, down 39 percent versus a year ago.  Retail sales to individual customers were down 27 percent.  Fleet sales were down 65 percent including a 90 percent decline in sales to daily rental customers.
Ford and industry sales in January were consistent with Ford planning assumptions.
During the last four months, retail demand appears to have stabilized, and the strength of our new products is a key reason were growing our share in these challenging market conditions, said Ken Czubay, Ford vice president, Sales and Marketing.  We expect new, recent and future fiscal and monetary actions to help improve conditions in the second half of the year.
Ford inventories were 420,000 vehicles at the end of January, which is 156,000 vehicles lower than a year ago.  During the past 12 months, Fords inventories were reduced by 27 percent  consistent with the companys sales decline (22 percent) during this same period.
Note: The sales data included in this release and the accompanying tables are based largely on data reported by dealers representing their sales to retail and fleet customers.
About Ford Motor Company
Ford Motor Company, a global automotive industry leader based in Dearborn, Mich., manufactures or distributes automobiles across six continents. With about 213,000 employees and about 90 plants worldwide, the company's wholly owned brands include Ford, Lincoln, Mercury and Volvo. The company provides financial services through Ford Motor Credit Company. For more information regarding Ford's products, please visit
http://www.ford.com
Go to for news releases and high-resolution photographs.
http://media.ford.com
 
 


