FILE:F/F-8K-20091001140330.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
.
Item 8.01. Other Events
Our news release dated October 1, 2009 concerning U.S. retail sales of Ford vehicles in September 2009, filed as Exhibit 99 to this report, is incorporated by reference herein.
.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
- 2 - -
 
 
 
- 3 -

Exhibit 99
 
 
EWS
N
IMMEDIATE RELEASE
FORDS STRONG NEW PRODUCTS DRIVE INDUSTRYS ONLY
THIRD-QUARTER U.S. SALES BOOST FROM FULL-LINE MAKERS
 
 
DEARBORN,
Mich., Oct., 1, 2009  Ford, Lincoln and Mercury third quarter sales were 5 percent higher than a year ago in the U.S., making Ford the only full-line manufacturer to report a sales increase in the period.
In September, Ford sales were 6 percent lower than a year ago.  This followed a 2 percent increase in July and a 17 percent increase in August, marking the first time in four years that Ford is reporting a quarterly sales increase.
Ford estimates it gained over 2 points of market share versus last year in September and the third quarter.  September marked the 11 time in the last 12 months Ford has gained retail market share.
th
Our balanced new lineup of high-quality, fuel-efficient products helped us navigate through an exceptional period in industry sales, said Ken Czubay, Ford vice president, U.S. Marketing, Sales and Service.  With its volatile sales peaks and valleys and dramatic segment shifts, the third quarter was a great test of our One Ford Plan  building a range of vehicles from small cars to hard-working trucks.
Fords third quarter market share gains were paced by the Ford Focus small car, Ford Fusion mid-size car, Ford Escape small utility and Ford F-Series trucks.  Internal and external studies continue to show a positive trend in favorable consumer opinion about Ford, and a growing number of consumers are considering the purchase of a Ford vehicle.
 
 
Third Quarter Sales Highlights
 
September Sales Highlights
Note: The sales data included in this release and the accompanying tables are based largely on data reported by dealers representing their sales to retail and fleet customers.
About Ford Motor Company
Ford Motor Company, a global automotive industry leader based in Dearborn, Mich. manufactures or distributes automobiles across six continents. With about 201,000 employees and about 90 plants worldwide, the company's automotive brands include Ford, Lincoln, Mercury and Volvo. The company provides financial services through Ford Motor Credit Company. For more information regarding Ford's products, please visit www.ford.com.
 
 


