FILE:F/F-8K-20090424083614.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Material Impairments	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Material Impairments
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Ford Motor Company ("Ford") hereby incorporates by reference its news release dated April 24, 2009, which is filed as Exhibit 99 hereto.
Ford will conduct two conference calls on April 24, 2009 to review preliminary first quarter 2009 financial results.  Beginning at 9:00 a.m., Ford's President and Chief Executive Officer Alan Mulally and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Lewis Booth will host a presentation for the investment community and news media to discuss Ford's preliminary financial results.  Investors may access this presentation by dialing toll free 866-788-0547 (or 1-857-350-1685 from outside the United States).  The passcode for either telephone number is a verbal response of "Ford Earnings."
At 11:00 a.m., Ford Senior Vice President and Controller Peter Daniel, Ford Vice President and Treasurer Neil Schloss, and Ford Motor Credit Company Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer K.R. Kent will host a presentation for fixed income analysts and investors.  Investors may access this presentation by dialing toll free 866-804-6920 (or 1-857-350-1666 from outside the United States).  The passcode for either telephone number is a verbal response of "Ford Fixed Income."
A listen-only webcast and supporting presentation materials for these calls is available on the Internet at .  Investors may also access replays of the presentations after 2 p.m. the day of the event through Friday, May 1, 2009 by dialing 888-286-8010 (or 1-617-801-6888 from outside the United States).  The passcode for replays of the earnings call is 29481628; the passcode for replays of the fixed income call is 55865600.  All times referenced above are in Eastern Time.
www.shareholder.ford.com
Please note that Exhibit 99 to this Form 8-K discusses revenue and profits excluding special items for our Automotive and Financial Services sectors and for the primary operating segments and business units therein.  The most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("U.S. GAAP") are revenue and profits including special items.  We believe that revenue and profits excluding special items are useful measures to provide investors, because they exclude those items that we do not necessarily consider to be indicative of earnings from ongoing operating activities.  As a result, revenue and profits excluding special items provide investors with relevant measures of the results generated by our operations.
In addition, Exhibit 99 discusses our key cash metrics, operating-related cash flow (which we believe best represents the ability of our Automotive operations to generate cash), and Automotive gross cash (including cash and cash equivalents, net marketable securities, and loaned securities).  We believe that operating-related cash flow is useful to investors because it includes elements that we consider to be related to our operating activities (e.g., capital spending), and excludes cash flow elements that we do not consider to be related to the ability of our operations to generate cash (e.g., tax refunds).  The most comparable U.S. GAAP measure is on our statement of cash flows.  The most comparable U.S. GAAP measure for Automotive gross cash is the sum of the individual line items on our balance sheet for each of the elements within that measure (,,and ).
Cash flows from operating activities of continuing operations
Cash and cash equivalents
Marketable securities
 
Loaned securities
 
- 2 - -
 
.
Item 2.06. Material Impairments
Having concluded that it is probable that we will dispose of our Volvo operations within the next twelve months, we have classified Volvo as held for sale in preparation of our first quarter 2009 financial statements.  We have conducted held-for-sale impairment testing for Volvo, and concluded on April 21, 2009 that we would have a $650 million impairment charge to be reflected in our financial statements for the first quarter of 2009.
.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
- 3 - -
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
- 4 - -
 
 
 
 - 5 -

Exhibit 99.1
 
N
EWS
IMMEDIATE RELEASE
FORD REPORTS FIRST QUARTER 2009 NET LOSS OF $1.4 BILLION
+
;
 
STRENGTHENS BALANCE SHEET, LAUNCHES KEY NEW VEHICLES
 
See end notes on page 9.
 
DEARBORN, Mich., April 24, 2009  Ford Motor Company [NYSE: F] today reported a first quarter net loss of $1.4 billion, or $0.60 per share. This compares with net income of $70 million, or $0.03 per share, in the first quarter of 2008.
 
 
 
Fords first quarter 2009 pre-tax operating loss, excluding special items, was approximately $2 billion, a decline from a profit of $686 million a year ago.  On an after-tax basis, Ford lost $1.8 billion in the first quarter, or $0.75 per share, compared with a profit of $477 million, or $0.20 per share, a year ago.
++
Our results in the first quarter reflected the extremely difficult business environment and weak demand for autos around the world, said Ford President and CEO Alan Mulally.  Despite the challenges, Ford made strong progress on our transformation plan by gaining share with strong new products, slowing operating-related cash outflows, reducing outstanding debt, lowering our structural costs and reaching new agreements with the UAW.
Ford finished the first quarter with $21.3 billion in Automotive gross cash and reiterated that based on current planning assumptions it does not expect to seek a bridge loan from the U.S. government.
In the first quarter, Ford took a number of actions to strengthen its overall business, and also started discussions with interested parties regarding the sale of Volvo.
Ford and Ford Motor Credit Company executed actions to reduce Fords debt obligations by $10.1 billion at par value and lower the companys annual cash interest payments by more than $500 million.  Of that $10.1 billion, $2.4 billion in debt obligations were reduced in the first quarter and will be reflected in Fords first quarter financial statements.  The remainder was reduced on April 8, 2009, and will be reflected in Fords second quarter results.  In addition, as previously announced, Ford drew $10.1 billion under its secured revolving credit facility, providing protection against the instability of the capital markets and the uncertain state of the global economy.
Additionally, Ford negotiated and ratified modifications to its collective bargaining agreement with the United Auto Workers union that will lower the companys overall labor costs in the U.S. by about $500 million annually.  The company announced a new buyout program for U.S. hourly employees that will be completed in the second quarter.  Ford also reached an agreement in principle with the UAW which, subject to court and other approvals, would allow the company to settle up to half of its future cash VEBA obligations with Ford common stock.
Based on current planning assumptions, Ford said it remains on track to meet or beat its financial targets, including the target for its overall and North American Automotive pre-tax results to be breakeven or better in 2011, excluding special items.
 
2
 
FIRST QUARTER 2009 RESULTS
On an after-tax basis, Fords first quarter operating loss, excluding special items, was $1.8 billion, or $0.75 per share, compared with a profit of $477 million, or $0.20 per share, a year ago.
++
Fords first quarter revenue, excluding special items, was $24.8 billion, down from $39.2 billion a year ago.  The decline is primarily explained by lower sales volume and unfavorable exchange, partly offset by higher net pricing.
++
Special items improved pre-tax profits by $362 million in the first quarter, or $0.15 per share, which largely reflected gains from the debt restructuring completed in the first quarter partly offset by the effect of held for sale accounting for Volvo assets and global personnel reduction programs.  At the end of the first quarter, based on the status of Fords strategic review of Volvo, the company concluded that the criteria for held for sale status had been met, triggering an impairment test that resulted in an impairment charge of about $700 million (reflecting the difference between the book value and estimated fair market value of Volvo as held for sale net of estimated disposal cost).
Automotive operating-related cash flow was $3.7 billion negative during the first quarter of 2009.       The negative cash flow primarily reflects:
++
Excluding the impact of the change to up-front subvention payments, Automotive operating-related cash flow was $3.2 billion negative.  This outflow in the first quarter is less than half the outflows during each of the third and fourth quarters of 2008, despite a further decline in volume in part related to actions taken to reduce dealer stocks.  The improvement is due primarily to improved working capital, lower Automotive pre-tax losses and lower net spending.
Ford reiterated that it expects operating-related cash outflows in 2009 to be significantly less than 2008.
 
3
 
Overall, the companys Automotive gross cash increased by $7.9 billion during the first quarter, primarily reflecting the companys draw of its revolving credit line of $10.1 billion and the net impact of $2 billion related to the conversion of the assets in the Temporary Asset Account set aside for the VEBA healthcare trust into a new Ford note, as discussed in January.
The successful debt restructuring, coupled with previously announced agreements with the United Auto Workers, will strengthen Fords balance sheet and will result in significant savings going forward, said Lewis Booth, Ford executive vice president and chief financial officer.   On the product side, our global lineup has never been stronger.  We remain hopeful that the government stimulus actions around the world will help improve auto demand, particularly in the second half of this year.
 
FIRST QUARTER 2009 HIGHLIGHTS
 
4
 
AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR
For the first quarter of 2009, Fords worldwide Automotive sector reported a pre-tax operating loss of $1.9 billion, compared with a pre-tax profit of $622 million a year ago.  The decline reflected lower industry volumes as well as actions to reduce dealer stocks, partly offset by structural cost reductions.
Worldwide Automotive revenue in the first quarter was $21.4 billion, down from $35 billion a year ago.  The decline is primarily explained by significantly lower volume.  Total vehicle wholesales in the first quarter were 973,000, compared with 1,531,000 units a year ago.
Automotive structural cost reductions totaled $1.9 billion, including $1.3 billion in North America.  Manufacturing and engineering costs were more than $800 million lower, largely reflecting the continued benefits of our restructuring actions in North America, Europe and Volvo.
Net pricing was about $700 million favorable, primarily explained by higher pricing in the U.S., reflecting pricing for new features and content, and limited new incentives.
For the first quarter, Ford North America reported a pre-tax loss of $637 million, compared with a loss of $45 million a year ago.  The decline was primarily explained by lower industry volume, a reduction in dealer stocks to bring days supply to competitive levels, and higher material cost, partly offset by structural cost reductions and favorable net pricing.  First quarter revenue was $10.2 billion, down from $17.1 billion a year ago.   North American pre-tax results improved by $1.3 billion in the first quarter as compared to fourth quarter 2008.  This improvement primarily reflects lower structural costs and lower commodity costs.
North America:
For the first quarter, Ford South America reported a pre-tax profit of $63 million, compared with a profit of $257 million a year ago.  The decline was more than explained by unfavorable exchange and higher commodity costs, partly offset by favorable net pricing.  First quarter revenue was $1.4 billion, down from $1.8 billion a year ago.
South America:
 
5
 
For the first quarter, Ford Europe reported a pre-tax loss of $550 million, compared with a profit of $739 million a year ago.  The decline was largely explained by lower industry volume and a reduction in dealer stocks.  First quarter revenue was $6 billion, down from $10.2 billion a year ago.  These declines reflect the economic weakening in most European markets.
Europe:
For the first quarter, Volvo reported a pre-tax loss of $255 million, compared with loss of $151 million a year ago.  The decline primarily reflected lower industry volume, lower market share, dealer stock reductions and unfavorable net pricing, partly offset by structural cost reductions.  First quarter revenue was $2.6 billion, down from $4.2 billion a year ago.  Losses were reduced by nearly $500 million compared with fourth quarter 2008, primarily as a result of structural cost reductions and favorable exchange.
Volvo:
For the first quarter, Ford Asia Pacific and Africas pre-tax loss was $96 million, compared with a profit of $1 million a year ago.  The decline primarily reflects lower industry volume and unfavorable exchange, partly offset by structural cost reductions and net pricing actions.  First quarter revenue was $1.2 billion, down from $1.7 billion a year ago.
Asia Pacific and Africa:
Other Automotive, which consists primarily of interest and financing-related costs, reported a first quarter pre-tax loss of $445 million.  This included net interest expense of $452 million.
Other Automotive:
FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR
 
For the first quarter, the Financial Services sector reported a pre-tax loss of $62 million, compared with a profit of $64 million a year ago.
Ford Credit reported a pre-tax loss of $36 million in the first quarter, compared with a pre-tax profit of $32 million a year ago.  The decline was primarily explained by lower volume and a higher provision for credit losses, partly offset by lower depreciation expense for leased vehicles and lower net losses related to market valuation adjustments to derivatives.   
Ford Motor Credit Company:
 
6
 
Other Financial Services reported a loss of $26 million in the first quarter, a $58 million decline from a year ago. The decline primarily reflects non-recurrence of gains related to real estate transactions.
Other Financial Services:
OUTLOOK
Despite the severe global downturn, Ford said it continues to make progress on all four pillars of its plan:
In addition to the key restructuring actions discussed, Ford also continues a collaborative effort to reduce its dealer levels, with a 14 percent reduction since 2005, consolidate and realign its suppliers, and reduce salaried and other overhead costs.  With the $1.9 billion of first quarter Automotive structural cost reductions, Ford is on track to exceed its target to reduce Automotive structural costs by $4 billion in 2009.
Clearly, these continue to be challenging days for the global auto industry.  I remain encouraged by the progress Ford is making to allow us to operate through the downturn and emerge as a lean, globally integrated automaker poised for profitable growth when the economy rebounds, Mulally said.  Ford continues to take decisive actions working with all of our stakeholders to ensure our long-term competitiveness.
Fords 2009 planning assumptions regarding the industry and operating metrics include the following:
 
 
7
 
 
Fords production volumes are shown below:
CONFERENCE CALL DETAILS
Ford Motor Company [NYSE:F] releases its first quarter 2009 financial results at 7 a.m. EDT today.  The following briefings will be conducted after the announcement:
At 9 a.m. EDT, Alan Mulally, president and chief executive officer, and Lewis Booth, executive vice president and chief financial officer, will host a call for the investment community and news media to discuss first quarter results.
At 11 a.m. EDT, Peter Daniel, Ford senior vice president and controller, Neil Schloss, Ford vice president and treasurer, and K.R. Kent, Ford Motor Credit Company vice chairman and chief financial officer, will host a conference call for fixed income analysts and investors.
The presentations (listen-only) and supporting materials will be available on the Internet at .  Representatives of the news media and the investment community participating by teleconference will have the opportunity to ask questions following the presentations.
www.shareholder.ford.com
 
 
8
 
Ford Motor Company, a global automotive industry leader based in Dearborn, Mich., manufactures or distributes automobiles across six continents.  With about 205,000 employees and about 90 plants worldwide, the companys brands include Ford, Lincoln, Mercury and Volvo.  The company provides financial services through Ford Motor Credit Company.  For more information regarding Fords products, please visit .
www.ford.com
 
9
 
Statements included herein may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Forward-looking statements are based on expectations, forecasts, and assumptions by our management and involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated, including, without limitation:
We cannot be certain that any expectation, forecast or assumption made by management in preparing forward-looking statements will prove accurate, or that any projection will be realized.  It is to be expected that there may be differences between projected and actual results.  Our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of their initial issuance, and we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.  For additional discussion of these risks, see Item 1A. Risk Factors in our 2008 Form 10-K Report.
 
10
 
FIRST QUARTER 2009 NET INCOME/(LOSS) COMPARED WITH 2008
FIRST QUARTER 2009 INCOME/(LOSS) FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS
COMPARED WITH 2008
 
*Special items detailed in table on page 12
 
11
 
 
12
 
AUTOMOTIVE GROSS CASH RECONCILIATION TO U.S. GAAP
AUTOMOTIVE OPERATING-RELATED CASH FLOWS RECONCILIATION TO U.S. GAAP*
 
13


