FILE:F/F-8K-20090901151529.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
- 2 -
 
.
Item 8.01. Other Events
Our news release dated September 1, 2009 concerning U.S. retail sales of Ford vehicles in August 2009, filed as Exhibit 99 to this report, is incorporated by reference herein.
.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
- 3 -
 
 

EWS
N
313-323-9216
gpipas@ford.com
IMMEDIATE RELEASE
FORDS STRONG LINEUP DRIVES RETAIL SALES UP 21 PERCENT
DEARBORN, Mich., Sept.1, 2009  Ford, Lincoln and Mercury dealers reported a 21 percent increase in retail sales in August as customer demand for Fords fuel-efficient cars, crossovers and trucks enabled the company to post its second consecutive increase in monthly sales.  Total sales  including fleet customer deliveries  were 176,323, up 17 percent versus last year.
We have the freshest lineup of new products in the industry, said Ken Czubay, Ford vice president, U.S. Marketing, Sales and Service.  Fords leadership in quality, fuel-efficiency, safety and technology all are resonating with consumers, and it is being reflected in our sales results.
Ford now has gained retail market share in 10 of the last 11 months.  Plus, internal and external studies continue to show a positive trend in favorable consumer opinion about Ford, and a growing number of consumers are shifting consideration to Ford vehicles.
 
Go to for news releases and high-resolution photographs.
http://media.ford.com
 
 
 
 
August Sales Highlights
 
Signs of Economic Recovery
Early signs of economic recovery are suggested by this months sales results for Fords pickup trucks and the all-new Transit Connect van.  Sales of the Ford F-Series  Americas best-selling truck  were 45,590, up 13 percent.  Sales of the Ford Ranger  the most-fuel-efficient pickup in America  were 7,746, up 57 percent.  Sales for each truck were the highest in more than a year, and it was the first sales increase for F-Series since October 2006.
The Transit Connect, a small, fuel-efficient purpose-built van, is the first ONE FORD global vehicle to be sold in the United States.  August sales for the Transit Connect were 2,220 versus 417 in July, and sales were 70 percent higher than the companys goal for the month.
 
 
Go to for news releases and high-resolution photographs.
http://media.ford.com
 
 
 
Were very pleased with the balanced performance of our products  from Focus to F-Series, said Czubay.  We are hopeful that the sales of our pickups and all-new Transit Connect are an indication that small business owners are seeing signs of recovery and gaining confidence in the outlook for stronger business conditions.
Ford Taurus and EcoBoost Gain Momentum
Sales of the all-new 2010 Ford Taurus sedan totaled 2,355 versus 309 in July.  With limited availability as production continues to ramp up, Taurus retail sales nearly matched year-ago levels and more than double the companys goal for the month.  Favorable third-party reviews are putting Taurus on the shopping list of even long-time foreign car owners, who cite the Taurus design, technology and interior luxury and comfort as reasons for purchase.
Also gaining momentum is Fords new EcoBoost engine  with dealer orders for EcoBoost-equipped models exceeding company expectations.  EcoBoost uses gasoline turbocharged direct-injection technology for up to 20 percent better fuel economy, 15 percent fewer CO2 emissions and superior driving performance versus larger displacement engines.  It is now on sale in the Ford Taurus SHO and Flex and Lincoln MKS, and soon on the MKT crossover vehicle.  In these vehicles, EcoBoost provides the fuel economy of a six-cylinder and the performance of a V-8.
Customers tell us they love our new products, and their favorable opinion of the Ford brand is continuing to gain strength, said Czubay.  All of us at Ford remain absolutely committed to building on this progress and delivering even more products that customers truly want and value.
Note: The sales data included in this release and the accompanying tables are based largely on data reported by dealers representing their sales to retail and fleet customers.
About Ford Motor Company
Ford Motor Company, a global automotive industry leader based in Dearborn, Mich. manufactures or distributes automobiles across six continents. With about 201,000 employees and about 90 plants worldwide, the company's automotive brands include Ford, Lincoln, Mercury and Volvo. The company provides financial services through Ford Motor Credit Company. For more information regarding Ford's products, please visit www.ford.com.
Go to for news releases and high-resolution photographs.
http://media.ford.com
 
 


