FILE:F/F-8K-20090304170351.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01.        
Other Events.
 
On March 4, 2009, Ford Motor Company (Ford) commenced an offer (the Conversion Offer) to pay a premium in cash to induce holders of any and all of its 4.25% Senior Convertible Notes due December 15, 2036 (the Convertible Notes) to convert their Convertible Notes into common stock.  The Conversion Offer will expire at 9:00 a.m., New York City time, on April 3, 2009 (the Expiration Date), unless extended or earlier terminated by Ford.  Tendered Convertible Notes may be withdrawn at any time prior to 9:00 a.m., New York City time, on the Expiration Date.  The terms and conditions of the Conversion Offer are described in the offering circular and related letter of transmittal, each dated March 4, 2009.  A copy of the Conversion Offer press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Concurrently with the Conversion Offer, Ford Motor Credit Company LLC (Ford Motor Credit) commenced an offer (the Tender Offer) to utilize up to $1.3 billion in cash to purchase outstanding unsecured, non-convertible debt securities of Ford.  The Tender Offer will expire at 9:00 a.m., New York City time, on the Expiration Date, unless extended by Ford Motor Credit.  Tendered debt securities may not be withdrawn except in certain limited circumstances where withdrawal rights may be required by law (as determined by Ford Motor Credit).  Also on March 4, 2009, Ford Motor Credit commenced a separate $500 million cash tender offer to purchase Fords senior secured term loan debt (the Senior Term Loan Debt Offer).  The terms and conditions of the Tender Offer are described in the offer to purchase and related letter of transmittal, each dated March 4, 2009.  A copy of the press release announcing the Tender Offer and the Senior Term Loan Debt Offer is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01.        .
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d)
Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: March 4, 2009
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
N
EWS
FORD ANNOUNCES DEBT RESTRUCTURING INITIATIVES AS PART OF COMPANYS TRANSFORMATION PLAN
LAUNCH OF
DEARBORN, Mich., Mar. 4, 2009  Ford Motor Company (NYSE: F) announced today that its Board of Directors and the Board of Directors of Ford Motor Credit Company have approved a plan to restructure Fords debt through a combination of a conversion offer by Ford and cash tender offers by Ford Credit.
The debt restructuring plan we are announcing today is a critical step in Fords overall transformation, said Ford President and CEO Alan Mulally.  We are continuing to work with all of our stakeholders -- including employees, dealers and suppliers -- to secure Fords future in this difficult economic environment.
 
 
 
By using a combination of Ford and Ford Credit cash on hand and Ford equity to retire certain long-term debt early, Ford would significantly reduce its debt obligations and annual interest expense.  The amount of the debt and interest expense reductions will be dependent upon the level of participation by debt holders.
Conversion Offer
As part of this debt restructuring plan, Ford has launched a conversion offer in which it is offering to pay a premium in cash to induce the holders of its outstanding 4.25% Senior Convertible Notes due December 15, 2036 (the Convertible Notes) to convert any and all  Convertible Notes into shares of Fords common stock (the Conversion Offer).  The Convertible Notes were issued in 2006 and the outstanding principal amount of such Convertible Notes is approximately $4.88 billion.  The Convertible Notes are currently convertible into shares of Ford common stock at a conversion rate of 108.6957 shares per $1,000 principal amount of the Convertible Notes.
Holders who elect to convert their Convertible Notes into shares of Ford common stock pursuant to the Conversion Offer will receive the 108.6957 shares of Ford common stock plus $80 in cash for each $1,000 principal amount of the Convertible Notes converted. The Conversion Offer is being made on additional terms and conditions which are set forth in an offering circular dated March 4, 2009 (the Convertible Notes Offering Circular) and the related letter of transmittal (the Convertible Notes Letter of Transmittal), both of which are being sent to holders of the Convertible Notes.  Holders are urged to read the Convertible Notes Offering Circular and Convertible Notes Letter of Transmittal carefully when they become available. Copies of the Convertible Notes Offering Circular and the Convertible Notes Letter of Transmittal may be obtained from the Information Agent for the Conversion Offer, Georgeson Inc., by calling toll free at 800-457-0759.
 
The Conversion Offer will expire at 9:00 a.m., New York City time, on Friday, April 3, 2009, unless extended or earlier terminated (the Expiration Time).  Any tendered Convertible Notes
 
 
2
 
may be withdrawn prior to, but not after, the Expiration Time, and withdrawn Convertible Notes may be re-tendered by a holder at any time prior to the Expiration Time.
Consummation of the Conversion Offer is subject to, and conditioned upon, the satisfaction or, where applicable, waiver of certain conditions set forth in the Convertible Note Offering Circular.  Subject to applicable law, Ford may amend, extend, or terminate the Conversion Offer at any time.
Ford Credit Cash Tender Offers
Concurrent with this announcement, Ford Credit separately announced today that it has commenced a $1.3 billion cash tender offer to purchase certain series of Fords outstanding unsecured, nonconvertible debt (the Notes), and has commenced a separate $500 million cash tender offer to purchase Fords senior secured term loan debt (together, the Tender Offers).   Details regarding the Tender Offers are contained in a separate news release issued today by Ford Credit.
Neither the Conversion Offer nor either of the Tender Offers is or will be contingent upon the completion of any other offer.
Trust Preferred Securities
Ford intends to elect to defer future interest payments on its 6.50% Junior Subordinated Convertible Debentures due January 15, 2032 as permitted by the terms of the Debentures, which will result in the deferral of the quarterly distributions on the 6.50% Cumulative Convertible Trust Preferred Securities (liquidation preference $50.00 per preferred security) of Ford Motor Company Capital Trust II for a corresponding period.  The deferral will commence with the April 15, 2009 payment date. Under the terms of the Debentures, Ford is permitted to defer payments of interest for up to 20 consecutive quarters.
3
Previously Announced Tentative UAW Agreements
The Conversion Offer and Tender Offers follow the previously announced tentative agreements reached with the United Auto Workers that, if ratified, will allow Ford to reduce its hourly labor costs and provide it with the option to use common stock to pay up to 50 percent of its future cash payment obligations to the Voluntary Employee Beneficiary Association (VEBA) health care trust.  Ford will provide more details about the agreements following the ratification process.
With respect to the option to satisfy up to 50 percent of its VEBA obligations in stock, Ford would consider each payment when it is due and use its discretion in determining whether paying with cash or stock makes sense at the time, balancing its liquidity needs and preserving shareholder value.
Both the operating-related and VEBA-related agreements would be conditioned on, among other things, Ford pursuing restructuring actions with other stakeholders, including meaningful debt reduction over time consistent with requirements applicable to its domestic competitors under their government-sponsored restructurings.  The VEBA-related tentative agreement, which would modify the existing Settlement Agreement dated March 28, 2008 among Ford, the UAW and class representatives of former UAW-represented Ford employees, relating to retiree health care obligations, also would be subject to final court approval and other conditions.
About Ford Motor Company
Ford Motor Company, a global automotive industry leader based in Dearborn, Mich., manufactures or distributes automobiles across six continents.  With about 213,000 employees and about 90 plants worldwide, the companys brands include Ford, Lincoln, Mercury and Volvo.  The company provides financial services through Ford Motor Credit Company.  For more information regarding Fords products, please visit www.ford.com.
About Ford Motor Credit Company
.
Ford Motor Credit Company LLC is one of the worlds largest automotive finance companies and has supported the sale of Ford Motor Company products since 1959.  Ford Motor Credit is an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Ford.  It provides automotive financing for Ford, Lincoln, Mercury and Volvo dealers and customers.  More information can be found at www.fordcredit.com and at Ford Motor Credits investor center, www.fordcredit.com/investorcenter
 
 
4
 
Safe Harbor and Other Required Disclosure
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Forward-looking statements are based on expectations, forecasts, and assumptions by the management of Ford and involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated, including, without limitation, those set forth in Item 1ARisk Factors and Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Risk Factors of Fords Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.  Readers are encouraged to read Fords filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission to learn more about the risk factors associated with Fords businesses.
 
Ford cannot be certain that any expectations, forecasts, or assumptions made by management in preparing these forward-looking statements will prove accurate, or that any projections will be realized.  It is to be expected that there may be differences between projected and actual results.  Our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of their initial issuance, and we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
This press release is for informational purposes only and is not an offer to purchase with respect to any securities.  The Conversion Offer is being made only by the applicable Convertible Notes Offering Circular dated March 4, 2009 and the related Convertible Notes Letter of Transmittal.  Investors should read the Convertible Notes Offering Circular because it contains important information. Investors can get such documents and other filed documents for free at the Commissions web site (www.sec.gov) or by contacting the information agent described below (the Information Agent).
 
The Conversion Offer described in this news release is not being made in any jurisdiction in which, or to or from any person to or from whom, it is unlawful to make such offer or solicitation under applicable securities or blue sky laws.  In any jurisdiction where the laws require such offers to be made by a licensed broker or dealer, the Conversion Offer will be
 
 
5
 
deemed to be made on behalf of Ford by one or more registered broker dealers under the laws of such jurisdiction.
 
Georgeson, Inc. is serving as the Information Agent for the Conversion Offer.  Persons with questions regarding the Conversion Offer should contact Georgeson at 800-457-0759 (toll free).  Requests for copies of the Convertible Notes Offering Circular or the Convertible Notes Letter of Transmittal may also be directed to Georgeson.
 
 
6
 

Exhibit 99.2
N
EWS
FORD MOTOR CREDIT COMPANY ANNOUNCES LAUNCH OF CASH TENDER OFFERS AS PART OF FORD MOTOR COMPANYS DEBT RESTRUCTURING PLAN
DEARBORN, Mich., Mar. 4, 2009  Ford Motor Credit Company announced today that its Board of Directors and the Board of Directors of Ford Motor Company (NYSE: F) have approved a plan to restructure Fords debt through a combination of a conversion offer by Ford and tender offers by Ford Credit.
As part of this debt restructuring plan, Ford Credit has commenced a $1.3 billion cash tender offer to purchase Fords unsecured, nonconvertible debt securities (the Notes), of which approximately $8.9 billion aggregate principal amount is outstanding as set forth in detail in the table below.  Ford Credit also has commenced a separate $500 million cash tender offer to purchase Fords senior secured term loan debt (the Term Loan Debt), of which $6.9 billion aggregate principal amount is outstanding, under Fords secured Credit Agreement (the Credit Agreement) dated December 15, 2006.  No debt securities of Ford Credit are included in these tender offers.
The tender offers we are announcing today will play a key role in supporting Ford's plan to create a
healthy
, profitable enterprise,
said
Ford Credit
Ch
airman and CEO Mike Bannister. It is in Ford Credit
s best interest to advance Fo
rd
s long-term financial stability as it will strengthen our ability to profitably sup
port the sale of Ford products.
 
 
 
Any Notes acquired by Ford Credit will be retired in settlement of existing intercompany tax liabilities to Ford or in distributions to Ford.  Any Term Loan Debt acquired by Ford Credit is expected to be distributed to its parent, Ford Holdings LLC, and forgiven.  These payments and distributions by Ford Credit are consistent with its previously announced plans to return capital to Ford.
Notes Cash Tender Offer
Ford Credit is offering to purchase the Notes (the Notes Tender Offer) on terms and conditions that are set forth in an offer to purchase dated March 4, 2009 (the Notes Offer to Purchase) and the related letter of transmittal (the Notes Letter of Transmittal), both of which are being sent to holders of the Notes.
Ford Credit is offering to purchase the Notes set forth in the table below for an aggregate purchase price of up to $1.3 billion (the Maximum Notes Tender Amount).  If the aggregate purchase price for Notes that are validly tendered exceeds the Maximum Notes Tender Amount, Ford Credit will accept for payment only the aggregate principal amount of Notes that does not result in an aggregate purchase price above the Maximum Notes Tender Amount, and the Notes will be purchased in accordance with the Acceptance Priority Level (in numerical priority order) as set forth in the table below (the Acceptance Priority Level).
All Notes tendered having a higher Acceptance Priority Level will be accepted before any tendered Notes having a lower Acceptance Priority Level are accepted.  If there are sufficient remaining funds to purchase some, but not all, of the Notes of an applicable Acceptance Priority Level, the amount of Notes purchased in that priority level will be prorated based on the aggregate principal amount tendered with respect to the applicable Acceptance Priority Level.  In that event, Notes of any other series with a lower Acceptance Priority Level than the prorated series of Notes will not be accepted for purchase.
The Notes Tender Offer Consideration for each $25.00 face amount of the 7.50% Notes due June 10, 2043, each $1,000 face amount of the 7.45% GLOBLS due July 16, 2031, 6 5/8%
 
 
2
 
Debentures due October 1, 2028, 6 3/8% Debentures due February 1, 2029, 8.900% Debentures due January 15, 2032, and 9.980% Debentures due February 15, 2047 and each $5,000 face amount of each other series of the Notes set forth in the table below tendered and accepted for purchase pursuant to the Notes Tender Offer will be the applicable tender offer consideration for each series of Notes set forth in the table below.  The Notes Total Consideration includes the Notes Tender Offer Consideration plus the early tender premium for each series of Notes set forth in the table below (the Notes Early Tender Premium and, together with the Notes Tender Offer Consideration, the Notes Total Consideration).
Holders of Notes must tender their Notes before 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on Thursday, March 19, 2009, unless extended (such date and time, as the same may be extended, the Notes Early Tender Time) to be eligible to receive the Notes Total Consideration.  Holders who tender their Notes after the Notes Early Tender Time will be eligible to receive only the Notes Tender Offer Consideration.
The Notes Tender Offer will expire at 9:00 a.m., New York City time, on Friday, April 3, 2009, unless extended or earlier terminated (such date and time, as the same may be extended, the Expiration Time).  Notes tendered pursuant to the offer may not be withdrawn, unless otherwise required by law.
The complete terms and conditions of the Notes Tender Offer are set forth in the Notes Offer to Purchase and the Notes Letter of Transmittal that are being sent to holders of the Notes.  Holders are urged to read the Notes Tender Offer documents carefully when they become available. Copies of the Notes Offer to Purchase and Notes Letter of Transmittal may be obtained from the Information Agent for the Notes Tender Offer, Global Bondholder Services Corporation, by calling (866) 470-4300.
Consummation of the Notes Tender Offer is subject to, and conditioned upon the satisfaction or, where applicable, waiver of certain conditions set forth in the Notes Offer to Purchase.  Ford Credit may amend, extend, or terminate the Notes Tender Offer at any time.
 
 
3
 
Cash Tender Offer for Senior Secured Term Loan Debt
Ford Credit also has commenced a $500 million cash tender offer (the Term Loan Offer) to purchase Fords Term Loan Debt.  The Term Loan Offer will be conducted on a Dutch auction basis whereby term loan lenders will be invited to submit bids to sell their Term Loan Debt within a price range of not less than 38% of par, nor greater than 47% of par.  Term loan lenders will receive the lowest price within the range (the Clearing Price) at which Ford Credit can complete the Term Loan Offer for $500 million.  If the aggregate purchase price for Term Loan Debt tendered exceeds $500 million, Ford Credit will (i) purchase at the Clearing Price all Term Loan Debt tendered at a price below the Clearing Price and (ii) purchase Term Loan Debt tendered at the Clearing Price on a pro-rated basis.
Consummation of the Term Loan Offer is subject to, and conditioned upon the satisfaction or, where applicable, waiver of certain conditions set forth in the offer to purchase.
If the amount of Notes and Term Loan Debt tendered results in a payment by Ford Credit of less than $1.8 billion aggregate consideration, Ford Credit may apply such remaining cash to the repurchase of other debt of Ford through tender offers, exchange offers, privately negotiated transactions, open market purchases or otherwise, or may distribute such cash to Ford for such purpose, subject to any applicable restrictions.
About Ford Motor Company
Ford Motor Company, a global automotive industry leader based in Dearborn, Mich., manufactures or distributes automobiles across six continents.  With about 213,000 employees and about 90 plants worldwide, the companys brands include Ford, Lincoln, Mercury and Volvo.  The company provides financial services through Ford Motor Credit Company.  For more information regarding Fords products, please visit www.ford.com.
 
About Ford Motor Credit Company
.
Ford Motor Credit Company LLC is one of the worlds largest automotive finance companies and has supported the sale of Ford Motor Company products since 1959.  It is an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Ford.  It provides automotive financing for Ford, Lincoln, Mercury and Volvo dealers and customers.  More information can be found at www.fordcredit.com and at Ford Motor Credits investor center, www.fordcredit.com/investorcenter
 
 
4
 
Safe Harbor and Other Required Disclosure
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Forward-looking statements are based on expectations, forecasts, and assumptions by the managements of Ford and Ford Credit and involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated, including, without limitation, those set forth in Item 1ARisk Factors and Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Risk Factors of Ford's and Ford Credits Annual Reports on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.  Readers are encouraged to read Ford's and Ford Credits filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission to learn more about the risk factors associated with Ford's and Ford Credits businesses.
 
Ford and Ford Credit cannot be certain that any expectations, forecasts, or assumptions made by management in preparing these forward-looking statements will prove accurate, or that any projections will be realized.  It is to be expected that there may be differences between projected and actual results.  Our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of their initial issuance, and we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
This press release is for informational purposes only and is not an offer to purchase with respect to any securities.  The Notes Tender Offer is being made only by the applicable Notes Offer to Purchase dated March 4, 2009 and the related Notes Letter of Transmittal.  Investors can get such documents and other filed documents for free by contacting the dealer managers or information agent described below (respectively, the Dealer Managers and the Information Agent).  The Term Loan Offer is being made only by an applicable offer to purchase, which will be made available to term loan lenders under Fords Credit Agreement through posting to the IntraLinks system.
 
The Notes Tender Offer is not being made in any jurisdiction in which, or to or from any person to or from whom, it is unlawful to make such offer or solicitation under applicable securities or blue sky laws.  In any jurisdiction where the laws require tender offers to be made by a licensed
 
 
5
 
broker or dealer, the Notes Tender Offer will be deemed to be made on behalf of Ford Credit by the Dealer Managers, or one or more registered broker dealers under the laws of such jurisdiction.
 
Goldman, Sachs & Co., Blackstone Advisory Services L.P. (Blackstone), Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and J. P. Morgan Securities Inc., are serving as Dealer Managers in connection with the Notes Tender Offer.  Global Bondholder Services Corporation is serving as Depositary Agent and Information Agent in connection with the Notes Tender Offer.  Persons with questions regarding the Notes Tender Offer should contact Goldman, Sachs & Co. at 800-828-3182 (toll free) or 212-357-4692 (collect) and Blackstone at 212-583-5400 (collect).  Requests for copies of the Notes Offer to Purchase, or the Notes Letter of Transmittal, may be directed to Global Bondholder Services Corporation at (866) 470-4300 (toll free) or (212) 430-3774 (collect for banks and brokers).  Copies of the relevant Notes Tender Offer documents are also available on Fords investor relations web site at: .
www.shareholder.ford.com
Blackstone, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P., and J. P. Morgan Securities Inc. are serving as Auction Agents in connection with the Term Loan Offer.
6
7
 


