FILE:F/F-8K-20091102081829.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
         Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
         Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
        
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
        
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Ford Motor Company ("Ford") hereby incorporates by reference its news release dated November 2, 2009, which is filed as Exhibit 99 hereto.
Ford will conduct two conference calls on November 2, 2009 to review preliminary third quarter 2009 financial results.  Beginning at 9:00 a.m., Ford's President and Chief Executive Officer Alan Mulally and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Lewis Booth will host a presentation for the investment community and news media to discuss Ford's preliminary financial results.  Investors may access this presentation by dialing 866-356-4123 (or 1-617-597-5393 from outside the United States).  The passcode for either telephone number is a verbal response of "Ford Earnings."
At 11:00 a.m., Ford Vice President and Controller Bob Shanks, Ford Vice President and Treasurer Neil Schloss, and Ford Motor Credit Company Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer K.R. Kent will host a presentation for fixed income analysts and investors.  Investors may access this presentation by dialing 866-730-5766 (or 1-857-350-1590 from outside the United States).  The passcode for either telephone number is 70059906 (note that this is a new passcode for the fixed income call).
A listen-only webcast and supporting presentation materials for these calls is available on the Internet at .  Investors may also access replays of the presentations after 2:00 p.m. the day of the event through Monday, November 9, 2009 by dialing 888-286-8010 (or 1-617-801-6888 from outside the United States).  The passcode for replays of the earnings call is 29481628; the passcode for replays of the fixed income call is 55865600.  All times referenced above are in Eastern Time.
www.shareholder.ford.com
Please note that Exhibit 99 to this Form 8-K at times discusses revenue and profits excluding special items for our Automotive and/or Financial Services sectors and the primary operating segments and business units therein.  The most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("U.S. GAAP") are revenue and profits including special items.  We believe that revenue and profits excluding special items are useful measures to provide investors, because they exclude those items that we do not necessarily consider to be indicative of earnings from ongoing operating activities.  As a result, revenue and profits excluding special items provide investors with relevant measures of the results generated by our operations.
In addition, Exhibit 99 discusses our key cash metrics, Automotive operating-related cash flow (which we believe best represents the ability of our Automotive operations to generate cash), and Automotive gross cash (including cash and cash equivalents, net marketable securities, and loaned securities).  We believe that Automotive operating-related cash flow is useful to investors because it includes elements that we consider to be related to our operating activities (e.g., capital spending), and excludes cash flow elements that we do not consider to be related to the ability of our operations to generate cash (e.g., tax refunds).  The most comparable U.S. GAAP measure is on our statement of cash flows.  The most comparable U.S. GAAP measure for Automotive gross cash is the sum of the individual line items on our balance sheet for each of the elements within that measure (,,and ).
Cash flows from operating activities of continuing operations
Cash and cash equivalents
Marketable securities
 
Loaned securities
 
-2-
 
.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
-3-
 
 
 
-4-

Exhibit 99
 
N
EWS
IMMEDIATE RELEASE
FORD POSTS THIRD QUARTER 2009 NET INCOME OF $1 BILLION; CASH FLOW TURNS POSITIVE; NORTH AMERICA PROFITABLE
+
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
See end notes on page 10.
 
DEARBORN, Mich., Nov. 2,  2009  Ford Motor Company [NYSE: F] today reported net income of  $997 million, or 29 cents per share, in the third quarter as strong new products, structural cost reductions and improved results at Ford Credit lifted the companys results despite continued weak global economic conditions.This is a $1.2 billion improvement compared with the same period last year.
 
 
 
 
Excluding special items, Ford posted pre-tax operating profits totaling $1.1 billion, an improvement of $3.9 billion from a year ago.  This marks the companys first operating profit since the first quarter of 2008.  On an after-tax basis, excluding special items, Ford posted an operating profit of $873 million in the third quarter, or 26 cents per share, compared with a loss of $3 billion, or $1.32 per share, a year ago.
 
Fords North American operations posted a pre-tax operating profit of $357 million, its first quarterly profit since the first quarter of 2005.  Ford South America, Ford Europe and Ford Asia Pacific Africa also posted pre-tax operating profits in the third quarter.
Our third quarter results clearly show that Ford is making tremendous progress despite the prolonged slump in the global economy, said Ford President and CEO Alan Mulally.  Our solid product lineup is leading the way in all markets.  While we still face a challenging road ahead, our One Ford transformation plan is working and our underlying business continues to grow stronger.
Fords third quarter revenue was $30.9 billion, down $800 million from the same period a year ago. Automotive revenue is up $100 million from a year ago. This improvement was offset by a decrease in Ford Credits revenue reflecting a decline in receivables.
Ford reduced its Automotive structural costs by $1 billion in the quarter, largely driven by lower manufacturing and engineering costs, which included benefits from improved productivity, personnel reduction actions primarily in North America and Europe, and progress on implementing its common global platforms and product development processes.  Through the first nine months, Ford has achieved $4.6 billion in Automotive structural cost reductions, exceeding its full-year 2009 target of $4 billion.
Ford finished the third quarter with $23.8 billion in Automotive gross cash, compared with $21 billion at the end of the second quarter of 2009.  Automotive operating-related cash flow was $1.3 billion positive during the third quarter of 2009, an improvement of $2.3 billion from the second quarter 2009.  Automotive operating-related cash flow was $3.4 billion negative during the first nine months.
 
The Ford team delivered another solid quarter of results with strong contributions from all our business regions, said Lewis Booth, Ford executive vice president and chief financial officer.  Positive cash flow, a stronger balance sheet and a third quarter operating profit are evidence that Ford is meeting the global economic challenges.
 
2
 
The following discussion of third quarter highlights and results are on a pre-tax basis and .  See tables following Safe Harbor/Risk Factors for the nature and amount of these special items and any necessary reconciliation to U.S. GAAP.  Discussion of Automotive overall operating cost changes is at constant volume, mix, and exchange, and excludes special items; discussion of Automotive structural cost changes is at constant exchange and excludes special items.
exclude special items
THIRD QUARTER HIGHLIGHTS
 
3
 
AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR
For the third quarter of 2009, Fords Automotive sector reported a pre-tax operating profit of $446 million, compared with a pre-tax loss of $2.9 billion a year ago.  The improvement primarily reflects favorable net pricing, structural cost reductions, lower material costs and improved market share, offset partially by unfavorable exchange and lower industry volumes.
Worldwide Automotive revenue in the third quarter was $27.9 billion, up $100 million from a year ago.  The increase is more than explained by favorable net pricing and higher volumes, primarily in North America, offset partially by unfavorable exchange. Total vehicle wholesales in the third quarter were 1,232,000, compared with 1,175,000 units a year ago.
 
4
 
Automotive structural cost reductions in the third quarter totaled $1 billion, including $500 million in North America. Manufacturing and engineering costs were $500 million lower, largely reflecting the continued benefits of improved productivity, personnel reduction actions primarily in North America and Europe, and progress on the implementation of Fords common global platforms and product development processes.  Pension and retiree health care costs were lower, reflecting the effect of the UAW Retiree Health Care VEBA agreement.  Overall, Ford reduced Automotive structural costs by $4.6 billion during the first nine months.
Net pricing was $1.9 billion favorable, primarily explained by higher U.S. net pricing, reflecting the success of new products, a continued disciplined approach on incentives and selective top-line pricing.
For the third quarter, Ford North America reported a pre-tax operating profit of $357 million, compared with a loss of $2.6 billion a year ago.  The improvement was primarily explained by favorable net pricing, lower material costs, structural cost reductions, favorable series mix and improved market share, offset partially by unfavorable exchange and lower U.S. industry volume.  Third quarter revenue was $13.7 billion, up from $10.8 billion a year ago.
North America:
For the third quarter, Ford South America reported a pre-tax operating profit of $247 million, compared with a profit of $480 million a year ago.  The decrease is more than explained by unfavorable exchange, primarily in Brazil and Argentina. Third quarter revenue was $2.1 billion, down from $2.7 billion a year ago.
South America:
For the third quarter, Ford Europe reported a pre-tax operating profit of $193 million, compared with a profit of $69 million a year ago.  The improvement was more than explained by structural cost reductions, lower material costs and favorable net pricing, offset partially by unfavorable volume and mix and exchange. Third quarter revenue was $7.6 billion, down from $9.7 billion a year ago.
Europe:
For the third quarter, Ford Asia Pacific Africa reported a pre-tax operating profit of $27 million, compared with a profit of $4 million a year ago.  The increase primarily reflects favorable net pricing, China joint venture profits, and cost reductions, offset partially by unfavorable exchange. Third quarter revenue was $1.5 billion, down from $1.7 billion a year ago.
Asia Pacific Africa:
Volvo continues to be reported as an ongoing operation. The effects of held-for-sale accounting-related adjustments are reported as special items. For the third quarter, Volvo reported a pre-tax operating loss of $135 million, compared with a loss of $458 million a year ago.  The improvement is more than explained by continued progress on cost reductions, favorable exchange, and higher volume and mix.  Third quarter revenue was $3 billion, up from $2.9 billion a year ago.  Also, as announced last week, Ford confirmed Geely as the preferred bidder in the ongoing discussions concerning the possible sale of Volvo Cars.
Volvo:
 
5
 
Other Automotive, which consists primarily of interest and financing-related costs, was a third quarter pre-tax loss of $243 million.
Other Automotive:
FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR
 
For the third quarter, the Financial Services sector reported a pre-tax operating profit of $661 million, compared with a profit of $159 million a year ago.
 
For the third quarter, Ford Credit reported a pre-tax operating profit of $677 million, compared with a pre-tax profit of $161 million a year ago.  The increase primarily reflected lower residual losses due to higher auction values, and lower provisions for credit losses, offset partially by lower volume.
Ford Motor Credit Company:
 
For the third quarter, Other Financial Services reported a pre-tax operating loss of $16 million in the third quarter, compared with a loss of $2 million a year ago.
Other Financial Services:
OUTLOOK
Despite the severe global downturn, Ford said it continues to make progress on all four pillars of its plan:
 
Ford said it remains on track to achieve or exceed all of its 2009 financial targets and almost all of its operational metrics.  Ford will also continue to pursue actions to improve its balance sheet.
Ford expects full-year 2009 U.S. industry sales will be about 10.6 million units, consistent with the guidance previously communicated by the company. In Europe, Ford now expects that full-year industry sales will be about 15.7 million units, which is higher than its previous guidance.
Ford expects fourth quarter 2009 production to be up compared with year-ago levels and third quarter 2009 production. This increase is to return to planned dealer stock levels and match production with market demand for Ford products.
 
6
 
Ford now expects full-year Automotive structural cost reductions of about $5 billion, exceeding its full-year 2009 target. These costs were reduced by $4.6 billion through the first nine months.  Going forward, Ford expects structural costs to be relatively stable as the company has largely completed its significant restructuring actions over the past four years.
The company said it expects full-year U.S. and Europe market share to remain at about the same levels achieved during the first nine months.
Ford expects Automotive operating-related cash flow to be positive in the fourth quarter, based on the companys present planning assumptions.
Ford now expects capital spending of about $5 billion, or slightly less. Capital expenditures through the first nine months were $3.4 billion; higher projected fourth quarter spending reflects the timing of Fords product launches as the company maintains its product plans.
Ford Credit expects to be profitable in the fourth quarter and for the full-year 2009.  Next year, Ford Credit expects reduced profits based on lower average receivables and the non-recurrence of favorable 2009 factors.
Based on its recent performance and present planning assumptions, Ford is changing its full-year 2011 guidance for total company and North American Automotive operations from being breakeven or better to solidly profitable on a pre-tax basis excluding special items, with positive Automotive operating-related cash flow.
While the company has confidence that the global economy will be improving by 2011, the near-term growth outlook remains rather uncertain. Looking at 2010, there is a high likelihood of a substantial decrease in European industry volume as scrappage programs expire. This decrease could more than offset U.S. sales volumes, which may improve somewhat from this past quarters levels.
Ford expects to know more about the state of the global economic recovery and its impact on 2010 auto industry volumes in the coming months.  Early next year, Ford will provide guidance on its 2010 planning assumptions and operational metrics when the company releases its full-year 2009 results.
The third quarter is one the entire Ford extended team can be proud of because it proves that our product-led transformation is working, Mulally said. Leading indicators are now showing signs of recovery in all of our major markets, however, consumer confidence and labor market conditions remain a concern.
 
7
 
Despite the continued economic headwinds, we remain confident that we have the right plan and are taking the right actions to transform Ford into a lean company that delivers profitable growth for all our stakeholders, Mulally added.
Fords 2009 planning assumptions regarding the industry and operating metrics include the following:
 
Fords production volumes are shown below:
 
 
8
 
CONFERENCE CALL DETAILS
Ford Motor Company [NYSE:F] releases its preliminary third quarter 2009 financial results at 7 a.m. EST today.  The following briefings will be conducted after the announcement:
At 9 a.m. EST, Alan Mulally, Ford president and chief executive officer, and Lewis Booth, Ford executive vice president and chief financial officer, will host a call for the investment community and news media to discuss third quarter results.
At 11 a.m. EST, Bob Shanks, Ford vice president and controller, Neil Schloss, Ford vice president and treasurer, and K.R. Kent, Ford Motor Credit Company vice chairman and chief financial officer, will host a conference call for fixed income analysts and investors.
The presentations (listen-only) and supporting materials will be available on the Internet at .  Representatives of the news media and the investment community participating by teleconference will have the opportunity to ask questions following the presentations.
www.shareholder.ford.com
 
 
Ford Motor Company, a global automotive industry leader based in Dearborn, Mich., manufactures or distributes automobiles across six continents.  With about 200,000 employees and about 90 plants worldwide, the companys brands include Ford, Lincoln, Mercury and Volvo.  The company provides financial services through Ford Motor Credit Company.  For more information regarding Fords products, please visit .
www.ford.com
 
9
 
 
10
 
Statements included herein may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Forward-looking statements are based on expectations, forecasts, and assumptions by our management and involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated, including, without limitation:
We cannot be certain that any expectation, forecast or assumption made by management in preparing forward-looking statements will prove accurate, or that any projection will be realized.  It is to be expected that there may be differences between projected and actual results.  Our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of their initial issuance, and we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.  For additional discussion of these risks, see Item 1A. Risk Factors in our 2008 Form 10-K Report and subsequent Form 10-Q Reports.
 
11
 
THIRD QUARTER & FIRST NINE MONTHS 2009 NET INCOME/(LOSS) COMPARED WITH 2008
* Special items detailed in table on pages 13-14
 
THIRD QUARTER & FIRST NINE MONTHS 2009 INCOME/(LOSS) FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS COMPARED WITH 2008
* Special items detailed in table on pages 13-14
 
12
 
 
13
 
 
14
 
U.S GAAP RECONCILIATION OF AUTOMOTIVE GROSS CASH
U.S. GAAP RECONCILIATION OF AUTOMOTIVE OPERATING-RELATED CASH FLOWS*


