FILE:F/F-8K-20090818143531.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
.
Item 8.01. Other Events
Our news release dated August 13, 2009 concerning a planned production increase, filed as Exhibit 99 to this report, is incorporated by reference herein.
 
.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
- 2 -
 
 
 
- 2 -

Exhibit 99
 
EWS
N
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
FORD FURTHER INCREASES VEHICLE PRODUCTION AS CUSTOMERS DEMAND MORE FUEL-EFFICIENT VEHICLES
DEARBORN, Mich., Aug. 13, 2009  Ford Motor Company today announced it is increasing North American production in the third and fourth quarters to respond to growing demand for new Ford products and to ensure dealers are well stocked with fuel-efficient vehicles eligible for the Cash for Clunkers program.
Ford is increasing third quarter production by another 10,000 units to 495,000 units primarily to build additional Escape small utility vehicles and Focus small cars, the two most popular Ford vehicles under the federal governments Cash for Clunkers program.  Fords planned third quarter production is now 18 percent above third quarter 2008 production levels.
 
 
 
Ford also announced plans to produce 570,000 vehicles in the fourth quarter, 33 percent higher than year-ago levels and 15 percent above the third quarter production plan.  The increase represents higher production across a range of cars, crossovers and trucks.
Under the Cash for Clunkers program, the Ford Escape and Focus are flying off dealer lots, and were doing all we can to ensure our dealers are well stocked with the fuel-efficient vehicles that customers really want, said Mark Fields, Fords president of The Americas.  We also are planning a significant increase in fourth quarter production compared with last year, continuing to match production to the real demand.  Well need this additional production as even more people are drawn to our high-quality, fuel-efficient lineup, including our newest entries such as the Ford Taurus and Lincoln MKT.
Ford is working closely with the UAW and its suppliers to ramp up production of the Escape and Focus.  At the Kansas City (Mo.) Assembly Plant, for example, employees agreed to work Friday and Saturday, Aug. 21-22, during what was a planned shutdown week.  In August and September, Ford will build approximately 3,500 additional Escapes.
At Wayne (Mich.) Assembly Plant, Ford is increasing Focus production by more than 6,000 units in the third quarter through increased overtime Monday through Friday and adding Saturday production shifts.
This is a team effort with the UAW and our suppliers to meet the demand for fuel-efficient vehicles, said Joe Hinrichs, Ford group vice president, Global Manufacturing and Labor Affairs.  We asked our union partners to pull out all the stops  overtime, Saturday shifts, working during the shutdown  and they have delivered.
The effort to meet Cash for Clunkers demand has required close coordination among Fords sales and marketing, purchasing, manufacturing and material planning and logistics divisions.  While increasing production, Ford also is reprioritizing vehicle shipments to ensure that vehicles in high demand, such as the Focus, Escape and Fusion, arrive at dealership quickly.
 
2
 
Our carriers have been instructed to load Focus, Escapes and Fusions first, said Ken Czubay, Fords vice president of U.S. Marketing, Sales and Service.  We want to ensure that dealers have an uninterrupted flow of product, because in many cases, they are selling them as soon as they arrive on the lot.
The fourth quarter production plan represents an increase of 75,000 vehicles versus the third quarter.  The increase, which includes several Ford cars, crossovers and trucks, will help Ford rebuild inventories of key products.
As we gain momentum with strong new products  with top fuel economy, quality, technology and safety  we are in a position to increase our production and deliver profitable growth over time, Fields said.
About Ford Motor Company
Ford Motor Company, a global automotive industry leader based in Dearborn, Mich., manufactures or distributes automobiles across six continents. With about 205,000 employees and about 90 plants worldwide, the companys automotive brands include Ford, Lincoln, Mercury and Volvo. The company provides financial services through Ford Motor Credit Company. For more information regarding Ford's products, please visit www.ford.com.
 


